 In this machine of trains, when you search for a ticket, from somewhere to other place, and this machine shows you the shortest path from example Jena to Berlin, thats actually running an algorithm over the graphs of all the stations in Germany. You can see graphs in your everyday life. For example, you can think of your network of your friends. You have some friends, and those friends also have some other friends, which can also be friends with you. So basically, this is again a graph. Nowadays there is a software that generates your friends networks from Facebook, so you can basically see for example how many steps you need to get maybe to Merkel or any famous person. I studied in Sharif University. It is one of the best universities in Iran. It is actually the university that Maryam Mirzakhani has studied there. She is the firt women Fields Medalist of the world. She also did Graph Theory as some part of her studies. There is this way that you get from a real world problems to some graph. And then, when you solve this abstract stuff in mathematics, like matrix and graph problems, you are actually solving this problem from the real world. Our chair of applied computer sciences is set up very multidisciplinary. We are very deliberate in working together with other faculties. The idea is to solve problems  that can only be solved or be efficiently solved by knowing the structure of the problem. This means, one has to deal openly with other branches of knowledge, and understand their language. Teamwork, communication, these are the abilities much needed for applied computer sciences. It's about modelling physical processes, in this example groundwater contamination. Or similar applications, like geothermal powerplants. We have inlets, we have an outlet. This means, water flows from bottom left to top right. And the red is a contamination. These problems are hard to solve. And hard to solve means that it takes a long time, maybe sometimes a year, to be completed. Or sometimes its so big and large that they cannot even have it in their computer, in their laptops, so they come to us. And we try, first of all, to understand the problem. We sit together. We should have a lot of meetings together. They explain us. But not everything, because we cannot be a chemist, or be like a geoscientist. But they just explain us most of the time the mathematical part, mathematical modelling, and what we really need to get this modell and compute it in the computer. My professor is like the best one I’ve had so far in my research career. Like you can really discuss with him a lot. Also he is really busy, because he is also the boss of this chair, so he has a lot of things to do, but he always tries to find some time for you. So we have a lot of time to discuss the papers together, the ideas together. So that is one of the best things I have in this faculty. The conditions for students here are superb. Given the chance, I would have studied here. Yeah, I really like the city and everyone can say that the best feature of the city is getting to the nature in like ten minutes from the city center. The good thing is that whenever you’re lost in Jena, you can just go in the direction of that tower and so you are in the center. So actually, you never lose in Jena. 