 Okay okay Welcome 2 unit 1 lesson 3 on analyzing graphs ... of functions. In this lesson we will be ... looking at different aspects of graphs and determining ... specific information... from the graph. So, We'll look at domain, continuity, intervals of increase and decrease. and over here on the second page will be talking about ... specified intervals. And then we'll also be... evaluating functions. So to begin with we'll talk ... about domain. All right, domain are all the X values of a function that you can use to ... generate a y value. So when I'm looking at the graph here. I'm going to be looking here. On the left hand side first, you read a graph from left to ... right like you do a word so here is an arrow pointing to ... the left. Arrows that point to the left. Indicate that the graph will continue to the left forever, towards negative Infinity. And then I'll just follow that from there and noticed that... every x value is covered... until you get over here to this arrow on the right and arrow ... on the right indicates that the graph will continue to the ... right towards positive Infinity... forever. So just put positive Infinity there. This is an interval notation so we're using parentheses for ... negative and positive Infinity. Look at a second example here. Again on the left hand side is an arrow. This arrow pointing up but it doesn't matter if it's pointing ... up or pointing down all that matters is that it exists on the ... left hand side. On the left hand side the domain is negative Infinity. And then it continues going down for awhile then comes ... back up and then it goes back down. None of that matters just that it's... going down on the right hand side. So again, an arrow on the right indicates Infinity. It doesn't matter if it's going up, as we have here in the first example. Or down in the second example. It's on the right hand side so it's positive Infinity in both ... cases. So take a look here now I'm ... in a couple modifications on here. Is not very clear to see on yours the cities are open ... circles indicating that those values those exercise do not ... produce the Y value of 2 this is not included. Right so when I look at my domain again on the left is a ... negative Infinity so again out indicate. Negative Infinity. Now I'll follow this along when I get the here right -1 ... gives me a y value of 5. And it jumps down here. To -2. However it's an open circle. But this is a closed Circle so it continues my demand it ... there's no Gap in the domain because -1 gives me 5 where ... is zero gives me to and everything in between is still there. So I can just continue I don't need to indicate anything in ... my domain until I get here. To an x value of V where it stops. Send it to close Circle I use a bracket and I noticed there's ... a gap here right between 5 and 6 there's no X values. So put a little Union to indicate that spacing on the ... x-axis where is this did not have any spacing they just ... connect right up to each other. But here there's a gap so and six. Has a circle indicating that it's not included so while use a ... parenthesis to show that it's a. Circle and not included. L&S continues on from 6 all the way to this arrow on the ... right indicating positive Infinity. So. There are the gaps in the domain. Alright let's talk now about continuity. So continuous or not continuous is basically a yes ... or no question if I put my pencil down here and can ... and go across the graph do I ever have to lift it up. Since I don't ever have to lift it up I would say yes this is continuous. And for some reason why. There you go. So again. Goes down goes up comes ... back down never lift a pencil. So yes this is continuous across the domain. Now here. I have to lift the pencil up to come down. Right even though this is a circle and this is circle here as before. In the demand there is no indication here. That there was a gap in the domain but because I pick ... my pencil up and move it down to here. That's automatically know the first time that happens you ... can stop and just say no this is not continuous. All right. And that's continuity just do you have to pick your pencil up or no. Okay so the next thing when we talking about our interval ... of increase and decrease now this is more than more difficult. Topics that will cover in the lesson it just seems to give ... people a lot of trouble so we'll try to go through this slowly. And with Clarity so come look at this first graph here. If I look here at the beginning. Notice that this is. Has a negative slope. Right this is a negative slope here. Whereas if I'm looking at this side of the graph from the ... vertex up it is increasing right this is a positive slope. So if I want to talk about interval of increasing I'm looking for. A positive slope. Now it doesn't have to be a slope it could be a curve but ... in general positive direction right increasing. So the interval of increasing is a part of the domain. So I see that the vertex is located. F of X value of -2 now with intervals of increasing ... decreasing I will always use a parenthesis e because at a ... given point you can't be increase or decreasing ... movement the type of Direction you're going are you ... going up are you going down and so I had to give him Point ... you're not doing anything of yours out of position so I will ... always use a parenthesis if you use the bracket we're not ... really going to cut off but if you always use the ... parentheses for interval of increasing or interval of ... decreasing or interval of constant I think that's going ... to be most appropriate. So as I see it -2 it starts to increase and then I see the ... anaerobic on the right so I know it's increasing from ... negative to the positive Infinity. And then the red aspect right the red. Over here. Right it starts at negative Infinity. And goes until -2 when it stops decreasing so I thought ... you look at the whole domain of this we found was negative ... Infinity to positive Infinity. When you put these two intervals together you get ... Negative finity the negative to negative 2 to Infinity so we've ... covered the entire domain of this function and if you look ... at this it's going down and then going up. We've covered everything. So let's look here at the second one. We'll start off by. This is going down to get the deuce Little Valley. And then we'll go up. You see if I color coding it it ... helps you to see the different aspects and then from here it ... goes down again. So what I'm going to do here is go back and talk about the ... interval of increasing which is the blue part and it looks like ... about 0 is the minimum value. Write the x value is 0. And then it continues to go ... up until we get to an x value of 2. So from 0 to 2 the function is increasing. And then over here. We see an arrow on the left so from negative Infinity. It's going down. Until I get to the x value of 0. No stops going down. A little Union because later on it goes down again see ... here at the maximum value. At 2. It starts to go down again. Never here I see an arrow on the right which indicates ... positive Infiniti so again my domain negative infinity to 0, it's going down zero to do is going up and then from 2 to Infinity. Decreasing again. Okay so let's take a look at the last example we have here. And. Will start here on the left. Increasing so I'll make that blue. And then we have a constant here I'll make that yellow. And then it goes up again. So there's actually no intervals of decreasing at all ... in this function. So when you come back here and talk about intervals of ... increasing we can talk about from negative Infinity. Until. -1. And then again. From 6. To Infinity. So those my to Blue sections because those the two ... sections of the graph that have a positive upward motion. When we read left to right The yellow section here. In the yellow section. It's can it's constant because it stays. Still doesn't go up and doesn't go down and that ... starts at negative 1. And goes all the way to 5. So between -1 and 5 its cons. Again when I put the all three of these together I get the ... domain negative Infinity. The five. And then 6 to Infinity just like we had on the first page. Okay so let's talk about on the next page here. Some specified intervals. So what I what I care about here is when f of x is greater ... than 0 so again we're going to make that. Here to talk about when Y is greater than 0 so these y ... values are all greater than or equal to 0. And these y values are greater than or equal to 0. Rez between these two points. The Y values are below zero see how they're in the ... negative the Y values are negative. So those would be the lesson zeros so yeah we're going to ... write this interview. When is greater than equal to will say from negative Infinity. Until that one two three about -3. Now. This value -3 if I put -3 into the function I get a y value of 0. 0 can be greater than or equal to 0 0 is equal to 0 ... negative 3 is included in the Centerville so it should have. Hey brat. And then I put a union here. And then it starts up again. Bracket because -1 gives me 0. And it goes on forever so we'll put a infinity symbol here. And for the intervals of. Less than zero want to retry now see this it have to be a ... parentheses because of getting negative 3. Give me 0 and 0 is not less than zero. So that has to be a parenthesis e and it goes all the way to -1. And now I've covered all the parts that are greater than 0 ... or equal to and all the parts that are less than zero. Alright so pause the video try to do the intervals of increase ... are intervals when f of x is less than 0 that got messed up. This should be greater than or equal to 0 all right so ... positive video and find those intervals and then do the rest. And then we'll come back so. Okay so this should be the answers that you have here ... nothing true tricky here in the first one I just noticed that ... they fit together negative fit a -1 negative one to one. 1 2 3 and then 3 to Infiniti to get the full domain of ... negative Infinity to infinity and then over here a little bit ... tricky again up here I would use a bracket for negative ... one because negative one gives me a y value of 5 + 5 is ... it Greater Than Zero. However the six. Does not give me a value of 0 because 6 is not in the domain. So that's why the six has a parenthesis e. Instead of a bracket. But down here on the red you see the negative one again is ... not actually a y value. That gives me a negative number that's because the ... open circle so that's a parenthesis they're going to ... 55 actually gives me -2. Which is less than 0 so that gives me a bracket so if you ... have any questions about this last one we can talk ... about that in class. Okay the last thing we want to talk here at the end of the ... video is talking about evaluating functions so we ... did this earlier in the last video with an equation but ... now we're giving a graph but it's the same thing this one ... indicates an x value so that's my ex if I look over here in the grass. Ex of one gives me a y value. Up to. Okay so. Let's check out F of zero f of ... zero is he. And it's not working properly. All right fm0 here's the. Sex Is Zero. The f. What do you want. And half of 3. Give me a y value of. Positive for. Now this is f of x equals 0 meaning why is 0 so if Y is 0. That would be nice just change colors here to make ... love it easier to see so here's all the values. We're why is zero we have a x value of -3. And the next value of -1. So. When it's equal to multiple X values and give u y values so ... just check that. Why of -4. Be down here. And doesn't appear that there's any x value that will ... ever give you a value of negative for seniors Mark that. With an n a. Let's check 3. Can here's my y equals 3 or f of x equals 3. And those exist at The X values. -6. And here at 2. Okay so that's it for the notes here's a graph. And we want you to kind of go through all the different ... things we talked about today and enter vit enter. Full notation I want to see you answer all these ... questions pause the video answer these 13 questions ... and then unpause the video and you will see the answers ... and you can check you work. Okay and here are the answers to the questions 1 through 13. So check through here if there's anything that you're ... not sure about or do you think I may have been a ... mistake on our part just bring it to class and we will answer ... those before we begin and then you can practice this ... during class alright hope you enjoyed the video have a good day. 