 - Kia ora, I'm Esme - And I'm McKenzie - And this is your level one tables, equations, and graphs strategy video. - So, everything that is within this standard is in the name really. You're gonna be discussing, tables, equations, and different types of graphs. And the three kinds of relationship that you need to know for this is linear, exponential, and quadratic. Now, the bulk of the standard is really just being able to translate between these three formats, so changing something from an equation to a table or a table to a graph, and vice versa. - Now background knowledge of geometry, algebra, and fractions is needed for this standard, but don't worry this video will walk you through what you need to know to ace this standard. - So our first for success for the standard is using the appropriate terms in your explanations; this will also help you understand exactly what is going on in the graphs that you have to analyze. So, with the basics, your x axis is horizontal, and your y axis is vertical, and your coordinates are always written within brackets beginning with your x and then your y coordinate. And when you're comparing two lines, where they meet is called the intersection, and you always want to be aware of things like the y intercept and the x intercepts. Now, I say plural there because the x intercepts as we will likely be discussing parabolic relationships. Now, analyzing different kinds of data is also really important. So we've got discrete and continuous, where discrete is a given set of numbers like the amount of children in the room, whereas as continuous where it could be theoretically any number on a spectrum, like something like height. So, in discrete data we can't use a trendline and this is because the data isn't appropriate for this, whereas we can with continuous. It's important to bear this in mind. - A really important thing to remember for standard is that an equation has an equal sign. A really common mistake that people make is forgetting to put in the equal sign with terms on both the left and the right hand side. For example, the term 2x plus three, is just an expression. In order to make it an equation, we need to do something like y equals 2x plus three. If you forget to put in that equal sign with the left and the right, you will get marked down. Another important goal to get used to is being able to classify a graph into its type based on what it looks like. Make sure to get really used to knowing what exponential, linear, or parabolic graphs looks like. Use a tool like graphsketch.com in order to practice drawing and recognizing these graphs. Another really important part of this is recognizing that graphs can look different in different situations. For example, a parabolic graph can be concave, or convex, depending on whether it's positive or negative. This difference is really important to know. - Another key tip is to be really comfortable with constants that you have in your equations. So if we take for example the quadratic y equals a x-squared plus bx + c, we know that a affects our width or depth, we know b factorized becomes our x roots or our x intercepts, and c is our y intercept. So by understanding how these affect the transformations on our graph, is really important in getting an intuitive feel of what's going on. Quite often what students do if they have an unknown constant is just sub in other points, which is a really useful skill, but quite often as well we can just get these points straight by looking at the graph. However we would recommend using an equation if some of your important points like the y intercepts doesn't have a clear point on the graph. By practicing these different transformations you can get a really good feel for what's going on and what you should be expecting in your graphs. A really good key point is knowing when negatives and knowing where negatives are and how they will affect your graphs, so in a parabolic relationship, it's gonna turn your entire thing upside down, so it looks like a frowny face instead of a smiley face. - An important thing to get into the habit of doing is to choosing recognizable and easy to draw to points when drawing out your graphs. Most times when you draw a graph, you only need to put in three or four coordinates in order to get an accurate graph. So why not choose ones that are nice and simple to draw? Your marker will be looking out for these things when they mark it, and a messy graph is a really easy way to lose your marks. On that note, it's really important that you practice drawing graphs out. Drawing graphs is harder than it looks, and it's important that do manage to get things like the slope and the x and y intercepts really really accurate. A good way to do this is to print out graphing paper, or get a maths book, and practice drawing out graphs before you head into your exam. - Getting excellence in this standard is quite often reserved for real world scenario-type questions, and what this requires you to do is put the features that you've learned in class and apply them in a scenario that you might be a little bit unfamiliar with. What we wanna be doing is marking down all important points and using the context of the question that we've been given to answer the question. So say for example we have someone kicking a rugby ball, and it comes in a curve. Well we know that that might be, that is an inverted parabola. And where the height of the kick would be the vertex, with the highest point is our turning point where it goes down from here. We also want to be creating an equation that represents this real world scenario, and instead of using the constants like a, b, and c that we've been given in class and that we've learned with, we wanna be using the terms that are used in the context of the question to show that you really are understanding what is going on. - A final important thing to remember is how to graph continuous data, as well as discrete data. It's really important to remember here that when you're graphing anything that's discrete, such as the number of rabbits in a field, you don't wanna draw a line connecting your dots together; just stick with the dots. Lines and graphs should only be used when you're using continuous data that can take any value. So your success in this standard is largely based on how much you stress the data out. Clear working, correct terminology, and accurate graphs are all key areas to stay on top of. This standard is all about thinking about the wider applications as well. Remember when you're looking at tables, equations, and graphs, it's not jut maths, but their link to the real world applications as well. - Cool. So we've covered a lot in this video but we haven't covered absolutely everything. We recommend that you guys look at two or three years worth of past exam papers to get a feel for the kinds of questions that you're gonna get, and just to get some good old fashioned study in there. Also, check out our StudyTime Walkthrough Guides. They're available for free online or you can buy them in print with next day delivery, and they're designed to walk you through absolutely everything that you would need to know to get through this standard. So that's all for us guys, and good luck. (upbeat music) 