 In this video, we're going to look at the graphs of the sine and cosine functions. In order to do this we're going to go back to the unit circle. In an earlier section we saw how the values of sine and cosine correspond to points on the unit circle. We eventually arrived at this picture. We used this image to create a chart of sine and cosine values. Recall that the values of the sine function correspond to the y coordinates and the values of the cosine function correspond to the x coordinates. Notice that we're using the radian measure for these angles. Radians are the more natural unit of measure for sine and cosine functions. We're now going to use this image to make an extended version of the chart you memorized earlier. The original chart only covered the first quadrant, but by tracking the coordinates all the way around the circle we can create a chart that covers all four quadrants. We only need to create the chart for angles from 0 to 2 pi because the points on the unit circle start repeating. Once we have the chart, we can think of the angle as the independent variable to get a graph. This transition can sometimes get confusing because we're going to use the variable x for both the independent variable to graph, and we're also going to think about x as the coordinate on the unit circle corresponding to cosine. You're going to have to rely on the context and your experiences to guide you forward. Let's start with the sine curve. If we plot all these points, we can see that we get an oscillating curve. And after we get these values plotted we can use the fact that the graph repeats every 2 pi to fill out the rest of it. Recall that if a function repeats itself we say that it is periodic and the period is the size of the gap between the repetitions. So the sine function is periodic with period 2 pi, and because it's a periodic function we can focus our attention on just the interval from 0 to 2 pi. There are several features that we need to pay attention to. The first is that the curve is constrained between plus and minus 1 in the vertical direction. This is because it comes from points on the unit circle, and no point on the unit circle can have a coordinate greater than 1 or less than -1. The most important features of the graph are the x intercepts, the peaks, and the valleys. We call these key values. Notice that you arrive at a new key value every pi/2. The y-coordinates at these key values is either zero or plus or minus one. We can put these points into a simple chart. This chart will become important over the next couple videos. We can follow the same process to get the cosine graph. You will notice that this graph has a lot of the same features. The y-coordinate is always between plus or minus 1. The key values occur every pi/2. And this allows us to create another key value chart. You might have also noticed that the graphs of the sine and cosine function look very similar. A little bit of inspection will reveal that the cosine function has the exact same values as the sine function, just shifted over a little bit. We'll see more about this in a future video, but it turns out that this is simply due to the fact that both these graphs come out of points on the unit circle, and the unit circle is perfectly symmetric. In the next video we're going to start to learn how transformations can affect the shapes of these curves. 