 Hello, everybody. Welcome to a review in algebra. On this video, we will talk about transformations and graphs. In particular, how do we use transformations of basic graphs to graph a function. So let's review. First, we'll take a look at some basic functions: We have a constant function, Identity function, quadratic function, square root function, Cubic function, cube root function, absolute value function and reciprocal function. This is just a review, we will not go over much detail on the particular of those functions. Next, we'll take a look at transformations: First, we have the vertical translation what we have, is Starting from the function y equal to f of X, if we add something to a function it will cause the graph to go up or down. If it is If we plus a positive number it will go up, minus, it will go down. We'll take a look at just one example here. Let's say we have the function y go to X square and then we have X square plus 2 for example. By adding 2 to it, the graph will go up to units. First we see that is X square and now the graph will up two units, from here to there. And if we have subtract, then it go down Next, we have horizontal translations. Unlike. Unlike the previous transformation, the plus K here is adding on the outside of the parentheses, does not attach directly to X. This time the minus H is attached directly to X. So it will affect the graph horizontally. Meaning it will go left and right. For example, we have y equal to X minus 2 square. It will go 2 units to the right. Now, Let's see. Now we'll graph X minus 2 square. Originally, we have X square and then the graph will go 2 units to the right. And it will be similar: if we add, it will go to the left. Alright, so far, we have we add a number on the outside of parentheses or we add to a basic function, up or down. If we add a number directly to the X inside the parentheses, it will go left and right. this pattern will repeat throughout the transformation. I put in color code: in blue if we put the minus just on outside the basic function. it will be a reflection about the x-axis And if we put the minus, attached to X it will affect the graph horizontally. In particular, it will reflect horizontally. Let's see how it works. Now we have X squares, the basic function .Now, we have negative x Square. And we expect this to the graph flipped vertically, about x axis as expected. Again, if it is outside basic function we're gonna. then the effect will be on the Y values, or the graph we change vertically. if it is inside, It will affect the X values, the graph will change horizontally. Same thing for the stretching and shrinking: if we have a number in front of the function and assume that is positive, because if it is negative, there will be a reflection. if it is positive if we multiply a number that is bigger than 1, that will stretch; smaller than 1, that will shrink. Stretching or shrinking is not really important. Once we do the transformation, it will come intuitively. But if the number is outside the basic function like this, we will want to multiply the y values. and if it is inside, attached to the X, we will divide X values by that number and Stretching and shrinking we work in reverse. Will say those examples later. But to recap: Anything on the outside of the basic function will affect the graph vertically. Anything inside will affect the graph horizontally. Finally, where we put all of those transformations together, we have this order of transformation Just like order of operations, we do inside and then outside. Multiply and divide and then add or subtract We will do inside this first, the function. That should be inside of the function We will do multiply first and then subtract. Even though when it looked like we do this subtract first. But always, multiply and divide and then add or subtract. Likewise, multiply or divide and then add or subtract on the outside. So that will be the order of transformations: inside and then outside. Multiply, divide and then act or subtract And then we have this summary. Now, we go to some example and It will make more sense. [No audio] I put the order of transformations on the top of a screen. Now we have some examples. I will do this example by hand first, and then after that we use the calculator to confirm. Alright. So here we will graph the function H of X minus X plus 4 square plus 3. I just look at the function originally, the basic function is X square. Now we have just the plus 4 , the plus three and the minus. Notice that the minus here is outside of the square. So this will be a reflection. It is outside so will be vertically. Or vertical reflection, I should say. And then we have the 4 that it's inside. It is plus 4, so it will affect the graph left or right. Plus 4 will be 4 units to the left. And they will have plus 3, on the outside of the square. It will affect the graph vertically and plus 3, so it will go up 3 units. Now put all this together. The order of transformations will be as follows: First, inside and then outside. Multiply or divide then add or subtract. So the first thing we'll do is 4 units to the left. And then after that Multiply or divide, this is multiplying by a negative 1. so (2) will be vertical reflection. And then finally, will be 3 units up. Alright. So first, the basic function is the X square. We will not draw the perfect graph. We just get the idea of the transformation. So X square looks like that just the idea, X square. Next will be 4 units to the left. So every point will go up, I mean, go to the left 4 units. And so it will be like this. So just move 4 units to the left. And then vertical reflection, we're gonna flip this upside down. And then finally we move this 3 units up. From that point up and every point move up three units. So It should be like this. So it'll be like like that. And let's confirm with the calculator. Alright, we have X square. Now, we're gonna graph minus X plus four square. (Alright) X plus four square plus three. And then let's look at the graph and as you see 4 units to the left. Reflect and then 3 units up and that's what we have. Now, let's look at another example. This time, we have square root of x. basic graph, square root of x look like this. Alright, let's look at what do we have. First, of all, the plus four here outside of the square root. This will affect the graph vertically. In particular, 4 units up. And then inside the square root, this will factor graph horizontally, we have the minus sign, and the minus 2. The minus sign here will be horizontal reflection. And then the minus 2 here also inside the square root, so it will affect the graph horizontally. In particular, minus so it will be two units to the right. Now so, that's all the information we have. Those are only information we have. Now, try to put them together. Always inside then outside. So those two first, this will be the last of our information. Of this two, we multiply with the negative sign first and then we subtract later. So the first thing we do is horizontal reflection, and then we go 2 units to the right, and then 4 units up. Alright. So first horizontal reflection, so we will flip. The other side. And then 2 units to the right. So that point 2 units to the right and all the points 2 units to the right. So it will be like that. And then 4 units up. just move everything up 4 units. 1 2 3 4 and it will be like that. It's just a sketch. The transformation is more important than to try to get all the points accurately. Alright. And now, let's confirm that with the calculator. We have the square root of x, that's the basic function. And then we have the function square root of negative Notice: if you used in the negative, it is this negative sign, and not a subtract. So we have (minus) negative X minus 2 Get out of the square root and then plus 4. And then we will graph. So first we have The square root function, and then we do have this the transformation of the function square root of negative x minus 2 plus 4. We will do one more example. This time, we have absolute values. Absolute value function is a "V". The basic function is like that. Now, let's look after the transformation, what do we have. First, outside of the absolute value, we have the 2, and then we have a plus 3, a 2 here. Of course, what we do is we multiply the Y values by 2. So I just write multiplying Y values. it is only outside so we multiply to the Y values. If it is inside, we divide the x value by that number. So multiply Y values by 2. Now, if we multiply a number let's say if the number is positive and we multiply by 2, that number will get bigger and it will get bigger meaning that it will stretch. Stretch is to make it bigger. And this one on the outside, it will affect the graph vertically. So it will be stretched vertically by a factor of 2. So that will be the first one. the first transformation. we're not doing that first, but one of the transformations. The plus 3here outside of the square root. I'm sorry. Outside the absolute value, so it will affect the graph vertically. And in particular, it will be 3 units up. Now inside the absolute value, we only have minus 2, meaning 2-unit right. So those are the transformations we have. And then the order of transformations. Again, it will be Inside and then outside. Multiply or divide and then add or subtract. So inside first, we only have the minus 2. So the first thing we do is move this 2 units to the right. Next, we have to multiply by two and then plus three. Always multiply first and then add or subtract. So we will instead of writing everything like this, we just say, we have the vertical stretch by two, and then finally we have 3 units up. First 2 units to the right. So move everything 2 units to the right. 1, 2, and then we still have a V. but 2 units to the right. Next, stretch, vertical stretch by 2, Meaning whatever the Y value is we're gonna multiply by 2. So, This is the Y value, the the vertical distance, We're gonna make it twice as long, and Whatever the Y value is, we're gonna double that distance. So this is 4. That. And then we have that of the graph And then whatever the y value is, we're gonna double the y value. So we say we're gonna stretch the graph vertically, in that direction. And then we'll just move this up 3 units: this point go up 3 units. So we have this graph. Alright, and we confirm with the calculator. First, we need absolute value. It will be under MATH Go to the second tab, NUMerical, the right. The first option is absolute value, X, and then we have 2 absolute value of X minus 2 plus 3 and then we graph. That original absolute value. Now, it stretch a little, move to the right, and then up. Alright, so that's all examples for this review. I hope you find this video helpful. Thanks for watching. 