 This is the next section that is on graphs intercepts and symmetry so let's take a look at the top of your notes and it says recall: if the point A B is a point on the graph of an equation then when x equals a and y equals B the equation will be satisfied, meaning it will work and be a true statement. So let's look at example 1a it says determine if the following points are on the graph of the equation and we're going to use 2x minus y equals 6 and we're given this point the point 2 3 so we're going to plug in this for the X and this for the Y and just check it so 2 take out the X put in 2 minus take out the Y put in the 3. Is that equal to 6? Does 4 minus 3 equal 6? Not so much so no that point is not on the graph of that equation let's look at 1b. We've got the point 2 negative 2 we're going to check it in the same equation so 2 take out the x put in a 2 minus take out the Y put in a negative 2 being very careful with your signs. Does 4 plus 2 equals 6? yes it does so yes this point is on the graph of the equation 2x minus y equals 6. Let's look at example 2 it says if the point 6B is a point on the graph of y squared equals x plus 3 what is the value of B? Well here's the equation y squared equals x plus 3 so we're going to plug in this 6 for the X and then solve for what the B is. So we would say we're going to take out the y and put in a B. B squared equals, take out the x put in a 6, plus 3 B squared equals 9 take the square root of both sides and B could be 3 or negative 3. So what points are on the graph? That would give us the point 6 3 and the point 6 negative 3 both of those points are real important that you get both the positive and a negative root when you do it that way. All right in the middle of your notes it says to graph an equation either get the linear equation in slope-intercept form, y equals MX plus B, and use the slope and y-intercept or create an XY table with at least two points so we'll do it both ways on here and the directions are to graph the equation in number three and we have y equals 2x plus 5 so let's first try it with an XY table but then we're going to look at what we actually have in our equation so I'm going to put, since it's solved for y it's easier to pick values for X, so of course I'm going to pick 0. That would give me Y is 5 because that term would go away I'm going to pick a 1 then I would have y equals 2 times 1 plus 5 or y equals 7 let's try negative 1 y equals 2 negative 1 plus 5 or y equals negative 2 plus 5 and that would give me y equals 3 so we've got three points that's good enough so let's graph that equation I've got the point 0 1 2 3 4 5 there's that point. I have the point, have to extend this, 1 7 which is about right there and then I have the point negative 1 3 so there is my line with my points. Now how else could we have done it? Well the original equation was in y equals MX plus B form. This told me that my y-intercept was the point 0 5, okay that's right there we got it, and this told me my slope. The slope is 2 over 1 which means up 2 write 1 so starting at this point I could have gone up 2 write 1 and I landed back on the line or I could have gone down 2 left 1 and I landed on the line because that would be a negative over a negative so you could have used it either way. Let's look at example 4 it says graph the equation y equals x squared. Again the easiest thing to do is since it's solved for y is to pick the values for X. So if I let X be 0 Y is 0 if X is 1 that would be 1 squared Y is 1. if X is negative 1, Y is also 1 because my y equals negative 1 squared or Y equals 1. If X is 2, y is 4, if X is negative 2, y is also 4 etc etc so let's look at what that graph looks like We have to go up one more. All right so what we have is the point 0 0 we have the point 1 1 and negative 1 1 we have the point 2 1 2 3 4 and the point negative 2 4 and what you can see is our graph is in the shape of a parabola, mine's not very good because I don't have a gridded coordinate plane, and if you don't believe that you can pick a few more points to see what it's going to be. Notice though that Y is always going to be positive because when you square here, square the X you're always going to get a positive Y. Let's go to the next section finding intercepts from a graph recall intercepts are the points where graph crosses or touches a coordinate axis. I am NOT going to attempt to draw this graph that you have in your notes so you just need to look at your guide your notes for example 5 it says to list the intercepts so all we're going to do is just look at the graph and write down the points where it touches each of the axis or crosses so the X intercepts are where the graph crosses the x axis so the first one starting on the left is at the point negative 3 0 then we have the point, it's about one and a half, one point five zero is between the one and the two over there on that positive x axis and then we also have the point 5 0 the graph comes back around and comes up through that point five zero so notice all of my X intercepts have zeros and the Y's spot. The y intercepts here where it crosses or touches the y axis we have the point 0 3 up at the top then we have the point 0 negative 1 then it comes back around and we have the point 0 negative 3 Notice all the y intercepts have zeros in the x spot so that brings you to that box it says to find the x-intercepts let y equal zero and solve for x to solve the, to find the y-intercepts let X equal zero and solve for y so let's do number six it says find the x and y intercepts of the graph y equals x squared minus four, then graph the equation by plotting points so let's first look for the X intercepts by putting a 0 in for the Y so this is the x-intercepts so if I put a 0 in the Y spot I would have 0 equals x squared minus 4 you can do that one of two ways you could factor it difference of two squares or you could move the 4 over and take the square root. We're going to move the 4 over and take the square root so we get 4 equals x squared a square root of both sides and x equals, remember plus or minus, 2 so you've got a plus or minus 2 so there's actually two x-intercepts. It's the point 2 0 and the point negative 2 0 those are my x-intercepts now to find the y-intercept I'm going to put a 0 in for X that's much easier and I get the point 0 for X Y is negative 4 so if I graph that, I'm gonna try to squeeze that one in right here, we have the point 0 negative 4, I have the point 2 0 I have the point negative 2  negative 2 0 not negative 3, it's right there, negative 2 0 and if you picked a few more points what you would see is that again it's a parabola and notice every time that we have an equation that has an X squared, we end up with a parabola okay that's just review. Let's go into some of new stuff, and this has to do with symmetry so I'm gonna just sketch these. A graph is said to be symmetric with respect to the x axis if for every point XY on the graph the point x negative Y is also on the graph. You have a graph that looks kind of like this It's going this direction. so if I pick a point right here and I call that XY it went over however many and then it went up however many and that's the point XY notice that right across the x-axis from it is the point, it's still over X but now it's down to get to it, so it's X and negative Y so it is symmetric with respect to the x axis when it has the point x y and x negative Y. Okay the next one, so let's do this, let's do symmetric x-axis now let's look at symmetry or something being symmetric with respect to the y-axis. What that would mean, this is what your graph looks like, I have this graph and it goes like this, and for every point XY on that graph go across what would this point be? it would be the point negative xY so I'm still going up for the Y so that's symmetry or symmetric to the y axis. All right so that's negative x and that's X but this is the same distance as that. Finally we've got symmetry to the origin and a graph said to have symmetry or being symmetric with respect to the origin and it would look like this, now I'm gonna have a hard time drawing this but I'm not bad, if for every point XY on the graph we have the point negative x negative Y. So if I go over here you can see there's my X and here is the Y, this is the same X in the other direction the same Y in the other direction so there's tests for symmetry at the bottom of your  notes there and it says to test the graph with an equation for symmetry we're going to use those through those three cases. So if it's symmetric to the x axis what you do is you replace Y with negative Y in the equation then you simplify and if you get an equivalent equation then that graph has symmetry to to the x axis. All right to test for symmetry to the y axis, now we're looking at this sketch, we're going to replace X with negative x and simplify and if you get an equivalent equation, and I'll show you what that means in just a minute, then we know that the equation is symmetric with respect to the y axis. Finally symmetry to the origin or with respect to the origin and you replace two things you replace X with negative x and Y with negative Y and again and then you simplify so let's just try one and it's easier to see from an example so let's look at example seven it says test this equation y equals 4x squared over x squared plus 1 and we want to test it for symmetry so we're going to test it for symmetry to the x axis, I'm going to make a little chart here, to the y axis and to the origin so we're testing for symmetry to all three of those so this looks like your notes now let's see how we do that a very organized way so to test for symmetry to the x axis go back up here you replace Y with negative Y so go back to your equation and we're going to put take out the Y put a negative Y does that equal 4 x squared over x squared minus 1? are those two equations the same? no they're not, one has y1 has negative Y right? So therefore, it's a symbol for therefore, not symmetric to the x axis because when we put in a negative Y we didn't get the same thing we started with. All right let's now go to testing for symmetry to the y axis so go back up here now we're on this one. Replace X with negative x. Ok start with your equation y equals 4, take out the X put in a negative x, continue to do the rest, take out the X put in negative x so we simplify negative x squared is still x squared over x squared plus 1. Did we get the same thing that we started with? Yes we did therefore, yes, it is symmetric to the y axis and finally to the origin we have to replace both the X with the negative x the Y with the negative y so we would have negative y equals, oops I forgot my 4, 4, I'll squeeze it in negative x squared up over negative x squared plus 1 or negative y equals 4x squared over x squared plus 1 is that the same as the original equation? No it's not so therefore it's not symmetric to the origin and that's as simple as that, the test, so to do it, check for symmetry to the X, Y becomes negative Y for the Y X becomes negative x to the origin Y becomes negative Y and x becomes negative x ok below here we've got some graphs that you need to memorize you're gonna have a quiz on these so you've got the graph of y equals x goes straight through the origin, quadrant 3 up to quadrant 1, y equals some constant, y equals x squared, y equals x cubed, x equals y squared. Let me show you what that one looks like because it's not drawn on there. It looks like this ok y equals 1 over X, and y equals square root of x, and that one didn't come out right so I'm gonna redraw that one too this one is y equal square root of x it's more curved it looks more like that, it's hard to see because I used I'm graphing calculator screens on those you need to memorize those. 