 Hi! This presentation builds on a previous one that explored frequency distributions, and here we're going to be examining some other ways to display our data through graphs and other displays. So the first thing we're going to look at is the stem-and-leaf plot. We're going to be examining the same data from our previous example and the other presentation, which is a class of students of various ages taking a statistics course, and there are 30 students in the class. The stem-and-leaf plot looks like this, where we've taken the first (the decade) of their age, here, 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50. Over here we've got the individual years within those decades. We've got a three 8s, three 9s, we've got two zeros, three ones, a two, and so on. These are the twenty year olds, these are the teenagers, these are the thirty year olds, those the forty year olds, and those the 50 year olds. We can also display the same data using what's called a dot plot, where each data entry is plotted with a point above a horizontal axis. That looks like this. Again we could see the eighteen year olds, the twenty year olds, thirty year olds, and so on. You can see, as you'd expect, the higher frequency at the lower ages of a college classroom, and then it trails off as you get the older ages. Next we can look at the pie chart, which is a circle divided into different sectors that represent the different classes or categories. The area of each sector is proportional to the frequency of that category.  Here we're going to use a different example. We're going to look at accidental deaths in the U.S. from 2002. I'm going to look at the following categories to do so. To create a pie chart you need to first find the relative frequency of each category. Here we have the relative frequency expressed as proportions. Next, because a pie is a circle which has 360 degrees, if we want to adjust that 360 degrees by the relative frequency, all we have to do is multiply it. Point five seven eight times 360 gives us 208. Point one six two times 360 gives us 58 point four, and so on. This will give us the angles we need to construct our pie chart. Here's the final result and it's a nice way to display the frequencies (the relative frequency) of our data. You can see the majority of accidental deaths are due to Motor Vehicles, followed by falls, poisoning, drowning, fire ingestion, and Firearms. Next we can look at the Pareto chart which is a type of bar graph where each bar represents a frequency, and the bars are ordered in a decreasing order. Here is that same data of the accidental deaths in a Pareto chart, with again, Motor Vehicles showing up as the highest category, followed by falls, poisoning, and so on. This time however you'll notice we're looking at the raw frequency number, not the proportion of the relative frequency. Thus far we've been looking at univariate graphs and displays and now we're going to shift to bivariate, where we're looking at data for two different variables displayed in the same graph or chart. We're going to start with a scatter plot. The scatter plot is used when each entry in one data set corresponds to an entry from another, and the sets are called a paired data set. In the scatter plot the ordered pairs are graphed in a coordinate plane, which you probably remember from your geometry class. The scatter plot is used to show the relationship, therefore, between two quantitative variables. Here is a scatter plot showing the relationship between absences--we always have our independent variable on the x-axis as a predictor of our dependent variable--in this case which is the final grade. Does an increased rate of absence lead to a lower final grade? This would suggest in a very linear sort of way that the answer is yes. We could see that graphically here using this scatter plot technique. Another bivariate chart is what we call the time series chart. In a time series chart at least one of the variables will be a measure of time, so in this case this example, we're going to look at months and the variable we're going to be graphing is the amount of minutes used on a cell phone by Robert. Here's our graph. We could see Roberts cell phone minute usage was rather high in January/February, declined in March and April, had a slight uptick in May, and went back down in June. This is a good way to examine trend lines and that's what this would be called. Anything we have with three points or more--we can call that a trend line. 