 - [Narrator] We are told in the xy-plane, which of the following is a solution to the system of inequalities above? And they give us four choices and we need to pick one of these. So pause this video and see if you can work through this. All right, now let's do it together. Now the simplest way to do this is to just test each of these coordinates on each of these inequalities and figure out which of these coordinates is true for both of these inequalities. So, for example, choice A here, where x is zero and y is two, remember these are xy pairs. So we can test it with that first inequality. Is it the case that two y is greater than 1/2 to the x power? In this case x is zero. Is this statement true? Well 1/2 to the zero power is one. So two is indeed greater than one so it meets the first inequalities constraints. Now let's look at the second one. Is it in fact the case that y, and in this situation y is two, that two is less than negative 1/2 times in this case zero squared, zero squared plus two. So let's see. If we have negative 1/2 times zero squared, zero squared is just zero so this whole thing is going to be zero. So is it true that two is less than two? No, two is less than or equal to two but it's not less than two. So, this coordinate pair right over here does not meet the constraints of this second inequality. So we can rule this one out. This is not true. Now let's look at this choice. When y is or when x is one and y is one, does that meet these two constraints? Well let's see. Is it true that y being one is greater than 1/2 to the x power, in this case x is one. Well 1/2 to the first power is just 1/2, so this is true. One is greater than 1/2. So it meets that constraint. And now let's look at the second one. Here y is one so is it the case that one is less than negative 1/2 times one squared plus two? So let's see this. Let's see. So one squared is just one. and so negative 1/2 plus two is going to be 1 1/2. So it is the case that one is less than 1 1/2. So this coordinate pair right over here, it met both of these constraints so I like that choice, and if I was taking the SAT and if I was under time pressure I'd be done, but we can verify that these two also won't meet these constraints. So, let's see. When x is two y is one. So let's see. So one, in order for this to meet the constraints one would have to be greater than 1/2 to the two power. To the second power. So it is true that one is greater than 1/2 squared is 1/4. So it meets that first condition. The second one is, is it the case that one is less than negative 1/2 times two squared plus two? Two squared is four. Negative 1/2 times four is negative two. Negative two plus two is zero. So this whole thing becomes a zero. It is not true that one is less than zero. So this one doesn't meet the second condition. And this one over here, if we have, let's see, if y is zero is it the case that zero is greater than 1/2 to the third power? That's that first condition there. And we can immediately see that this is not going to be the situation because zero is not greater than 1/2 to the third power, or is 1/8. Zero is not greater than 1/8. This is not true and so we don't even have to go to the second condition. We can rule that one out as well. But as soon as we saw that B met these conditions, we should feel good about it. 