 (light music) - And I would like to talk a bit about SEO, because I believe some of you might not be familiar with the term. SEO stands for search engine optimization, which means that we help websites to rank higher on Google results. And what I really enjoy about working with SEO is that it's constantly changing and evolving. While a couple of years, our search results page looked something like this, just standard results, maybe a couple of ads on the top, now we have all sorts of things, like answer boxes, knowledge graphs, local packs and more recently even voice search, which is something that is really changing the industry. While before you had 10 results, now you have just one. And of course Google is not the only search engine out there, so when we talk about SEO we also talk about YouTube, which is the second largest search engine nowadays, and also Pinterest, Facebook, Bing, et cetera. The Career Centre is also an amazing resource. You can go there to have your resume checked. If you're an introvert like me, you can do it online so you don't have to speak to anyone. So you can just upload you resume there, they will write some comments, send it back to you, and you can iterate this as many times as you need to. The International Centre is also an amazing resource for international students. They must be so happy that I graduated because I used to nag them every time with questions. They have amazing workshops about permits and about finding a job in Canada, so I definitely recommend that you take advantage of this. They also do some great trips that are open for international and domestic students. This is a trip that we did to an apple picking farm. And it was just a lovely day. And finally I would like to talk one of the best experiences that I have here at Humber, which was my internship with Christina in the OCMC team. You can see some of her friends here, like Jennifer, Daniella, Cameron, Lesley, you can say hi. (people laughing) I worked for a couple of months with Christina creating content for the OCMC team, so Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. And it was a lot of fun and also challenging to create different content for these three social media accounts. And it was just an amazing experience and I would like to thank Christina again for it. So these are some samples of content that I created. So, I did some quotes and every week I did a countdown for the OCMC. I like, also, always liked to feature some of our team members there. And it was just a lot of fun. And we got some really great results, so just in like a fourth months we got more than 500 new followers and a lot of engagement, and we were really happy with the results that we achieved. (light music) 