 Hey friends! I’m Tasia and this video will highlight another one of Google Maps great features: Google Maps AR Mode. That’s right, augmented reality is here, and it’s spectacular. Google Maps has been my go-to navigation app since its inception in 2005, and like a fine wine it just keeps getting better with age. I think that’s what wines do. Anyway, let’s first talk about what Google Maps live view really is, and then we’ll get into how it works. Let’s head to the streets! So first things first. Google Maps live view is only for walking directions, and that’s because it’s pulling its information about your coordinates based on the buildings around you. And it’s only using solid, stationary objects, anything that’s been captured by street view, and is a permanent fixture. So, it won’t pull info based on cars, people, or even trees. It’s only buildings. In essence, Google Maps is using visual positioning, street view and machine learning to more accurately pinpoint your location and orientation on the map. In simplistic terms - it’s augmented reality. The app is using computer generated info and adding that onto your view of the real world. Pretty neat right? But you might be thinking ok cool, great, why would I use this? Well, how many times have you been using Google Maps and questioned: wait, which way am I facing? Do I go straight or turn around and go back? Am I going in the right direction? It happens to me a lot, and even more so in big cities because big buildings can block gps signals. Well Google Maps AR mode solves this issue. So here’s how live view works. Enter your directions into the app, and since I’m on an iPhone, I’ll select the ‘live view’ option at the bottom. On Android the option will say ‘start ar’. Now you’re off to the races. Just hold your phone up and it will recognize the buildings. Once it recognizes a building, it’ll orient you and tell you which way to go. And you may be thinking, Tasia, you preach about safety and now you’re telling me to cross streets with my face in my phone? Well, Google has thought about that too. It won’t actually let you walk for prolonged periods with your phone up - it tells you to put your phone down. Should you need a prompt again, just hold your phone back up. #safetyfirst. There are also on-screen prompts like when you’re approaching an intersection it’ll tell you how many feet you have to go. And my favorite, giant arrows telling you whether to go left or right. Hey look at me, back in my office. If you’re interested in any other great google maps features you can click somewhere up here. Now I want to hear from you. Have you tried Google Maps AR mode? What do you think of live view or what would you like to see Google do next? Let everyone know in the comments below. As always, if you liked this video, I want to know so give it a like, a share, or leave a comment below. You can click right about here for even more content - can you believe it, or here to subscribe to my channel. Thanks for watching and see ya next time. 