 Hello! Welcome to Emiliusvgs. Your AR and immersive technologies channel! Who doesn't know tik tok? It is a platform where the talent of millions of people are shown to the world. It's a giant network and I am sure it will be the most important, if it is not already. Do you also know that this platform has elements of augmented reality? Although it is not their main focus, in recent weeks Tik Tok has been generating several effects using it with great results. I've been looking for a while to know its filter creation platform without positive results ... until the user Luis Lorenzo shared the platform link to me and I was surprised. I automatically entered the link and also searched it on Google. This was the result: The page shows a platform where you can create effects and have a potential reach. To design filters you must first have an official “Effector” account to test and upload your augmented reality projects. At this point it reminds me of Lens Studio and its official community of creators. Below is how to verify the account, the platforms you need to use and how to test your filter and publish it. We go to the download page and we will have the opportunity to download the file. We can also download an app outside the official IOS and Android stores to test our filter. I couldn't with my iPHONE, but android did. The official page also has a section of frequently asked questions and tutorials to better understand the dynamics of creation. When opening the program we will see that it has a "look and feel" similar to Spark AR with minimalist design with the precise options. I appreciate this very much. Let's go to a template and see a simple distribution. On the left the composition of the filter, in the middle the work process, and on the right the video preview. We will navigate on the right side and see the different masks, an animated element, then the background ... In "add" we can add new elements of augmented reality. If we click on “event” we will see a timeline in flash style cs5… where we will see how the files interact. For example, most masks appear and disappear when a face is shown. It's really intuitive. Now we are going to test it in the preview application as spark AR player. The tool will give us a QR code to scan it. What do you think about it? If we want to upload the file we will find that you must first link your Effector Tik Tok account but we run into the grief that Spanish-speaking countries have not been contemplated. In other words, only some countries can participate ... I hope this begins to expand, otherwise many Latinos will be unhappy.  I think this is going to happen and it'll be similar to Spark AR and Lens Studio. If you like this video, please give a great like and subscribe, this way I'll know this has been relevant to you and I'll create more related content. That's all for now. Emiliusvgs says goodbye. Byeee! 