 Hi! You are in Emiliusvgs! October begins with interesting news for the augmented reality community. The new Zapbox has been launched! It goes from being this: a cardboard-style headset to being a more robust and powerful hardware!! What's new and why is this news important? I'll explain all this to you in this video! let's get started! Augmented reality is mostly viewed through the smartphone A mobile AR where your hands play a fundamental role to visualize and interact with the elements within a screen For this reason, the use of the headset is an evolutionary step important to improve experience. These experiences allow your hands to free themselves to generate a fluid interaction now with your hands you can use controllers to increase the immersion ... For this reason, these affordable and powerful initiatives allow democratizing the next level of augmented reality This new version of Zapbox has a more ergonomic and resistant design it also allows a better 6-DoF interaction and the most interesting is that you will be able to create experiences with Unity that is, developers will be able to create content with iOS and Android device although it should be noted that they can also be created with ZapWorks Studio. Let's talk in detail what this headset contains: Better design: the material changes completely and is definitely more ergonomic because its product promise is that it can adapt. The lenses have also changed. As they commented, this new form of distribution increases the field of vision. New way of holding the smartphone: this is a critical point for many entry headsets. Here we will have greater adjustability and above all it will keep the smartphone in the center. The controls: they have been completely modified. They have ensured that now with this new design 6DOF tracking is more precise. Tracking the world: The tracking points we had in the previous version have been replaced this new design seeks to optimize the experience. The visualization of the 3D elements will be more precise and will adapt better to the environment. Unity Plugin: here the range of opportunities grows. With Unity we can increase the generation of content, which is so important to grow as a sector and as a community because there is no use having a lot of technology if there is nothing to experiment with, interact and process ... The contents are the engine that moves users and investors. On that side, it is up to the developer to create satisfactory experiences. In conclusion this will have a greater boost. New Zapbox for $ 40 and is in the Kickstarter campaign. with a funding goal of $65,000. You can choose from a variety of tiers. of course I will also support the initiative. Enter this page if you are interested!! This is all for the moment. Emiliusvgs says goodbye see you in the metaverse bye! 