 [Homeland Security, Science and Technology]  [Darren Wilson] The Augmented Reality Sandtable or (ARES) is the tool that mimics the terrain in a mission space. Showing peaks, valleys, ridges, mountains, trails and allows groups or small units to get situational awareness, visualize that mission space and better prepare for whatever the mission is. [Thomas  Madrid] The early ideas of the Sandtable from our points was a phone static table that was as  best as we could develop to the terrain features. Thee typography of the training area that we used, but we have probably five or six different areas that we are able  to train and have different types of terrain. We would technically have to make a phone  table for every area that we've trained in and the Augmented Reality Sandtable  now allows us to change the terrain to fit the training area that we are training in at that time. The foam Sandtable we just  weren't able to do that. [Darren]The U.S. Border Patrol Training Academy,  approached us with a need to improve their sign-cutting and tracking capabilities.  Specifically with respect to their ability to do mission pre-brief, mission planning and after action review.  [Thomas]You're able to upload maps various areas of operation. Whether it be on the border in a sector area or station responsibility or a training area such as our academy. You can overlay that picture onto the sand and it mold and move based on the typography lines that are overlaid  on the sand. After the U.S. Border Patrol Training Academy conveyed  their needs. S&T tapped it's network of federal partners, industry, academia  and other national laboratories to see what was out there.  What we call "Text Scout". S&T decided to go with the Augmented Reality Sandtable, because it was the perfect  combination of low cost, commercial off the shelf components. Government owned software and the reliability that could benefit or  patrol agents in the field and at the training academy. [Thomas] Because  we are able to bring the students in and have them observe the terrain that they will be working in.  We could have them come up with a terrain analyses prior to them even running  through a scenario. We could record the scenario that they went through  play it back and they could discuss pros and cons of the type of interdiction  that they used. [Darren] The Augmented Reality Sandtable also has all sorts of  enhancements and capabilities that are coming along, including a floor projected option  for briefing larger groups or training classes. That also includes things like the HALO Lens 2, which gives you the  mixed reality capabilities where you can actually see from any point of view on the 3D map, what you would be  looking at from that point on the on the terrain. [Jesse Azua] Recently we've really become engaged with Science  and Technology specific and Mr. Wilson on my part and I fee personally that we've grown and created a great partnership, even more  so here recently within the last couple of months and I hope that continues and were here to help each other out and  it's been nothing but positive 100%. [For more information: First.Responder@hq.dhs.gov] [Homeland Security, Science and Technology] Instrumental Music playing in background] 