 If you use smart glasses or other wearable computing devices in your company you need local apps to run on these devices. These apps display information and visualize what the frontline worker needs to do, right in his field of view, just when he needs it. These local apps support the workers’ actual tasks like order picking in a warehouse, assembly of products in manufacturing, inspection and maintenance of machinery or equipment. Remote expert calls help staff out in the field. Besides creating your own apps, you need to manage your devices and the different tasks or workflows. You might also want to supervise the workers wearing the devices and communicate with them through the smart glass. But what are relevant criteria to look at when choosing an AR app platform? Here are seven important aspects: One: You don’t want to implement different solutions for each task. Avoid isolated solutions. Look for a platform supporting many tasks along your value chain. Two: You need an easy integration into your existing IT systems like the warehouse management system, the enterprise resource planning system or the production management system. Three: In some environments a tablet or a smart watch may be the better choice. Your AR platform should support a broad hardware spectrum so you can use the optimal device for each workplace. Four: To be flexible and future-proof choose a platform that is operating system agnostic and enables Android and Windows devices. Five: Having different hardware, different tasks for your workers and individual workflows, managing all this should be as easy as drag and drop, point and click and it should be all on one platform. Six: You need a platform to quickly and flexibly edit workflows and create new versions for new tasks. Look for a platform with a tool like the Frontline Creator that enables you to instantly create and edit AR workflow apps. And seven: To benefit from the learnings of other companies’ AR and wearable projects select a stable platform that has already been extensively developed through many customer projects. The more existing installations, the more mature and reliable is your solution. Your AR platform should support your entire value chain, offer easy integration into existing IT systems, support different hardware types and operating systems. You should be able to easily manage all hardware and AR workflow apps and create and edit AR workflows fast and simple. Also, it should be a mature solution, grown over time and in productive use for years. Get a demo of Ubimax Frontline now! 