 Hello everyone my name is Yilun the Co-founder and CTO of NKN short for New Kind of Network. So today I'm going to give you a brief introduction of what banking does, what you can do with NKN, and our current status. So, if you're trying to build an application today there are 3 essential resources that you might need: the compute, the storage, and the network. So there are quite a few projects that focus on the storage part but NKN is purely focusing on the network part by providing a decentralized Network as a Service so this network is a large market already and ready for quite many players. So we launched our Mainnet a year ago after one year of growth we now have over 20 thousand full nodes globally. So those are all full consensus nodes participating in consensus, storing a copy of the ledger, and relaying data to earn money reward and have a public ip address and most importantly this is a very decentralized network. As a team we only own and run less than one percent of all these nodes. The rest are all wrong and managed by community so by far it is the world's largest blockchain network in terms of the number of consensus nodes. So here is a live map of the nodes globally and it's a little bit updated currently we have more nodes than this. So the NKN full consensus node is very lightweight and it only consumes tiny amount of CPU and RAM this is thanks to our extremely scalable consensus algorithm the majority votes that are automata or also known as MOCA so it is inspired by Dr Stephen Wolfram's "New Kind of Science" which is by the way how we got our project name. So the idea is to use neighbor-only communication to reach global consensus and as a result it can achieve logarithmic complexity with respect to the number of nodes in a network. It means that consensus algorithm  is extremely scalable. So the current NKN code without any modification can scale to billions of nodes easily results without any problem or eating up notable resources. So on the off chain part, NKN network is a decentralized data transmission network. So basically when a NKN client wants to send some data to another NKN client they both connect to the NKN node network and ask the node to really the data for them. So typically because the data will only go through one or a few nodes in the network. So that means the more nodes we have in the network the more data it can transmit at the same time or technically called the higher aggregated throughput it has. So that means the more nodes the better the more powerful network. That's why we care about how large the network is and that's one of the most beautiful thing about off-chain system. So, as the NKN network can do the off-chain data transmission it also has on-chain transaction part. They both are important components of the system. So, by relaying data off-chain, the miner can use Proof of Relay to earn mining reward or use nanopay to get payment directly from users through the payment channel and on the other side the on-chain transaction provides some of the core functions to the off-chain data transmission such as subscribe in pubsub and also the name service. So far we have been talking about the blockchain infrastructure, which is the technology foundation and the infrastructure of the system or we call it NKN 1.0 but this is not enough. We actually want to go further to go beyond blockchain to expand to real-world use case and ramping up commercial revenue because as we know the world outside blockchain is much, much larger and has a great market so that's why we created something called NKN 2.0. You can think of it as we provide Network as a Service for everyone every company not just the blockchain world or decentralized world but every company who needs communication. So if you think of the NKN 2.0 as like a tree the root is definitely our crowdsourced node and network which is a foundation of everything else. Above that we can provide Network as a Service with the trunk of the tree and on top of that we have our branches which is the dataRide and nCDN platform services that we will talk next and outside we have the fruit which the end user can use applications like the D-Chat and nMobile or something else. They may not even realize it has NKN in it but it's directly accessible to end users the dataRide is one of the core services that NKN provides it is a decentralized communication suite. You can think of it as an Uber for client to client communication so basically when a client wants to send some or receive some data from another client they don't need to build their own server and do all those kind of work and pay for those VPS. So now they just need to embed NKN inside their client and now their client can send and receive data and communicate with other clients very smoothly, very fast, and very reliably. So there are a few advantages of using dataRide, The first is performance. So because we are able to aggregate multiple concurrent paths where it is able to get a much higher throughput than just default route or using a single pass connection and also reliability so there are over 20,000 nodes in the network but they are all running the same code. There's no single one that is more important or less important than other nodes. So there's absolutely no single point of failure. This is one of the great advantages of being a decentralized system, and also the data sent through dataRide is very private and secure because we use the same public key as decentralized identity and we use it for both routing and encryption that means all that data sent through dataRide is end to end encrypted and there's absolutely no third party in the world that can decrypt or modify the data sent through dataRide. so dataRide can be used in a lot of use case as long as the communication is needed. So one of the core features of dataRide is multi-path aggregation. So when an NKN client wants to send some data to another NKN client, he can ask multiple different nodes to relay the data for him and the data will be relayed and goes through multiple independent and different paths and typically on the internet the bandwidth bottleneck is neither on the sender side nor on the reserver side but it's something in the middle so by utilizing multiple independent and concurrent paths we can get a much higher bandwidth or aggregated throughput than just using one of them and the sender can also choose to send duplicate data among all these different paths to quickly enhance the reliability or lower the latency. So a lot of different applications can be built on top of dataRide here are a few early examples. For example, the nMobile or D-chat is a decentralized instant messenger using NKN to send a receive message and it's very fast and secure and we use it internally for our discussion and communication. nFTP is a decentralized web app that lets you send and receive data without any server security and nShell is a browser plugin that lets you control your node even if the node does not have a public ip address or does not have any port open. We are already using it for all of our node management. And dataRide is still pretty young and we see it's community growing and we will see more applications coming in the future.  Another important service we provide is CDN or Content Delivery Network. Because NKN has so many points of presence worldwide it is very suitable for a CDN. So we have a self-service portal for individual users to try it out. Also for commercial and enterprise users we have signed quite a few commercial contracts. The most well-known is iQIYI, one of China's largest video content provider with over a hundred million subscribers we have been one of the CDN providers for them for quite a few months and the traffic is ramping up pretty fast. So far we have been talking about the service that NKN can provide but also this cannot be done without the help of miners. So we are also releasing the NKN commercial, which is our all-in-one mining software. The miner can run a full node within it and a few different other services that can earn you NKN tokens. So we are at at the end of the presentation and here is a brief summary. So we have been talking about NKN 1.0 blockchain infrastructure which has a very scalable consensus algorithm and decentralized data transmission network as off-chain functions and uses Proof of Relay and nano pay to get tokens. And also we have NKN 2.0 which provides Networks as a Service beyond the blockchain. Two important platforms we provide is dataRide and nCDN. For end users people can can start to use dataRide and nCDN to power applications now and for developers they can use dataRide and nCDN to build their own applications and for miners we have the all-in-one mining software NKN Commercial that lets you run all these services in addition to just mining NKN token and that's it. Thanks everyone for your time. 