 Welcome to Episode 17 in our 20 for 2020 Series, Let's Talk MSP. To complete our trilogy on Cybercrime and MSPs, this week, we are very fortunate to be joined by Trend Micro's very own Rik Ferguson and Myla Pilao. In our first two episodes, we were joined by Brian Honan, a cybersecurity consultant, and Neil Walsh, Head of Cybercrime for a major organisation. This week, it's the turn of the cybersecurity vendor.   (music)   Good morning, Myla. Good morning, Rik. Thank you so much for joining us for Episode 17 of our 20 for 2020 Series, and welcome back, Myla. Guys, just to get things started, can I ask you to give a quick introduction to who you are and what you do. Maybe we'll start with you, Myla. Thank you, and thanks for having me again. I'm Myla Pilao. I am part of our global threat researcher team. It is actually a group of cybersecurity engineers, researchers in 15 locations worldwide. I always say that we sometimes have the front seat to the latest trends, technologies, things that sometimes we never kind of dreamed of, like from modern robotics to integrating them to industrial control system or from machine learning and trying to interpret it to AI. We are part of that group, and our focus has always been to look at how threats, securities escalates and to possibly look into possible future threat scenarios. Our focus is not really to modernise those innovations, but we need to take a look at what are those digital disruptors, but also the most important thing is how we could avert them in the future. A group of fantastic security engineers, almost a thousand. Proud to be part of that group. My name is Rik Ferguson. I'm the VP for Security Research at Trend Micro, of course. I've been with the company 13 years. My background before that was very much practitioner-based, whether that was in implementation, design, architecture, that kind of stuff. The reason I came on board at Trend was to take that practical knowledge of the IT landscape in the IT world, how technologies are used in anger, how people actually deploy things, and to work out best fit for security around that. The job evolved over time, so, of course, now there's the research element, there's a forward-looking futurist element, there's being a speaker at conferences and writing papers. It's a job that encompasses a lot of things, but I've never had more fun in my life. I know this is a subject, and we talked about it in our previous two episodes as well, that we're all kind of getting a bit tired of talking about. We're starting to experience, I suppose, that pandemic fatigue that we're seeing now across all our businesses. Especially now as a lot of us are dissecting our Q3 numbers and looking into Q4. I think we're starting to see that element of burnout, almost, when it comes to that work-from-home type scenario that a lot of our sales, account managers are experiencing but specifically, with our partners and customers. Beyond that as well, they're also experiencing what we're seeing these obvious spikes in phishing scams and are seeing cyber criminals exploiting this fatigue and this fear to steal this personal information. For our audience, can you give us a view on how the global pandemic has affected online crime and examples of what you guys are seeing? Maybe we might start with you, Rik. Yeah, sure. We've seen criminals leverage the pandemic as a lure to get people to do what they want them to do, whether that's clicking on a link, downloading a file, or giving away information, installing a mobile app-- whatever the goal of the attack is. Obviously, money is the end goal but the vehicle for making that money. That's really not a surprise because we see that any time anything newsworthy happens around the globe-- and this has happened, literally, for decades-- criminals will take that phenomenon and build it into their attack toolkit. Certainly, in my living memory-- maybe it's not fair to say in living memory in general-- but in my living memory, there's not been a bigger, more global event that has affected as many people as this pandemic that we're living through right now. It's something which not only is changing our day-to-day lives at the moment, but it will have a lasting effect on everything about our lives. So it's really no surprise that criminals are using it. I don't think that the total amount of cybercrime has increased. The figures don't bear out that as a conclusion. But the scale and the extent to which criminals have shifted towards using this as a particular lure is unprecedented, I would say. Things like death of Michael Jackson. Maybe we'll see it for the unfortunate death of Eddie van Halen yesterday. Those kinds of things get used but nowhere near to the extent that we have seen COVID. Myla? There's two things. I think if we try to compartmentalise the start of the pandemic, I would say there are two types of waves that we saw. Rik already alluded to the fact that a lot of them are opportunistic attacks. This is something that we saw, for instance, in March, April, and May where a lot of the threat actors were really designing a lot of threats that were purely scam, purely phishing. A lot of it is, I guess, the massive amount of disinformation from fake information, fake product, fake guidance. We've seen this pretty much tremendously, especially in April. That's where the peak of a lot of these phishing scams and misinformation is. There is a little bit less on the potential financial fraud. This is, again, very limited to, let's say, niche attack on NGO, non-profit, charitable institutions-- some of these fundraising organisations-- so this is probably the first wave. What scares me the most is we are now entering or we probably have entered what I call the second wave, which is, essentially, this is more e-commerce driven, this is more attack to supply chain. What do I mean by this? Imagine we've all shifted to remote operation. The majority supply chain manufacturer or major industry has also shifted to that. As a result, the second wave is really exploiting this e-commerce site and this supply chain movement. Now, we are seeing more diversity of campaigns targeting a little bit more on financial institution, directed more into compromising their business processes. They're heavily integrated and really looking into major platforms, like online platforms, marketplace, shopping, big shopping, kind of online store. This is a little bit more e-commerce driven. Again, this is driven by we don't have a lot of mobility, a lot of our transactions have pivoted totally online. Again, this is less opportunistic but extremely very disruptive not just to financial organisations but, again, very disruptive to entire business processes of a lot of organisations and even government. So I think that's where it's moving. Don't ask me about wave three. It's probably something that Rik and I will have a long conversation, is probably what wave three is. What's really interesting is that criminals are having to shift their enterprise attack tactics-- say that when you're drunk-- enterprise attack tactics to take account of the fact that they are targeting employees now at home rather than in the office. That's a really interesting dynamic because, obviously, with a distributed workforce, everyone's, like I am right now, in their own home. There are just one or very few corporate devices on that home network, and the rest of it is stuff that the security function or the enterprise function has no visibility of whatsoever and probably never will have visibility of to the extent of even the really important things, like the edge device, like the home router-- those things are now very much in the sights of attackers because you can imagine what you can do. For example, if you can do your reconnaissance up front, you're targeting a large enterprise, you do your reconnaissance up front, you build an organisational map, you know who works in which department, you've done all of that open-source intelligence research, you know who you have to target, you start going after them at home, imagine what you can achieve if you can own the home router and do something as simple as change the DNS setting-- just that. It opens up a whole world of possibilities for you as an attacker. Or if their home router has something like UPnP enabled, and it enables you to burrow through that router into the home network, you have a pivot point onto a corporate laptop. You're within the network environment, but you're invisible to the management and security function of that enterprise, hopefully, until you break into the laptop you're trying to target. It's a whole new dynamic and a very complex challenge. 40% increase actually on NAS, which is our network storage system, is actually what is really trending right now. Same time last year, it has never changed. It's always the router, it's always the modules, it's always these devices. So I think they're there, which makes it a little bit more difficult not just to see them but also to monitor the activities around. Yeah, and that's exactly the UPnP thing that your NAS on your home network is one of those naughty little devices that as soon as you plug it in and configure it, if you're not a security person-- let's face it, the majority of people are not security people, and we look at the world with a very different set of glasses than other people do-- if you're not, then the default setting on almost every router is to have UPnP enabled, and the default setting on any device that's going to use it is to go look for it and use it. So if you install a NAS on your home network, it's going to be publishing itself, one way or another, out to the wider web, and those kinds of wormholes are super attractive in the current distributed workforce scenario. Yeah, absolutely. Rik, if we stick with that for a second because what you mentioned there is that knowledge around security and security experts, and then from the point of view of business compromise, many of our listeners today are Managed Service Providers of various levels of maturity, various levels of size, various levels of integration, technology, automation. But their customers will see them as the ultimate defenders when it comes to their online security. But those Managed Service Providers then have a reliance on us as a vendor to help them through this. As you're talking about the complexities that are now facing customers and users, what role would us, then, as a vendor, Trend Micro, will have to play right now that we may not necessarily have played before pre-pandemic? What's our role in this in order to ensure that partners can keep these customers safe? I don't think that we have a new role. I don't think we have to add a new string to our bow, but we do have to, perhaps, refocus a little bit because, like I said, the focus of security organisations, whether that's an MSP looking after an organisation or an organisation looking after itself, the focus, pre-pandemic, has been, out of necessity, very different to what it is right now. It's not just about having people working from home. It's also one of the big challenges for organisations has been how do I take corporate resources that were previously internal and make them available to this distributed workforce? So it's pushed a massive investment and acceleration of cloud deployment, for example, and usage of new and developing platforms on cloud, like containerisation or serverless. Perhaps it was in the five-year plan, but suddenly, they've had to accelerate. User usage patterns are changing as well. What used to be data-centric usage patterns is now not at all data-centric usage patterns. Many of your users probably never have to fire up the VPN because they never have to use a resource that's on the corporate network. Even at Trend, I know I use my VPN very very rarely these days because most of it is available through other means, which is great, but it's also a whole new world I think for practitioners in many cases. I think one of the huge roles that we have to play for the MSPs, and the MSPs have to play for their customers is to make sure that we are-- we have that knowledge, we have the expertise, we've been working in that cloud world for a very long time-- we need to make sure that we can make it understandable, comprehensible, digestible and that we can distribute it effectively: the information about the threats; the information about the configuration issues because that's a really big part; the information about the solutions so that MSPs can also up their game and help those companies that have had to accelerate and change their investment and their direction not just in how the user uses the laptop but the whole corporate infrastructure. Myla, if we take that a step further, something you touched on a while ago is that you gave examples of some of the things that we're seeing right now that we may necessarily have seen before because we're capitalising on something we've never experienced before. One of the examples that was given to me recently was around we know of people that are targeting certain roles or certain decision makers in organisations who are actually now in isolation themselves because they contracted COVID or maybe suspected to contract COVID. They're using that uncertainty from them being in isolation to now target emails to their colleagues or employees saying, "I'm on isolation, but can you transfer these funds to this?" because the nature of their communication is different to what they had before. People are going, "It doesn't really sound like them, but I know they're in isolation, so yeah, it's okay," and they transfer the funds. The nature of it has completely changed. For MSPs, I think what we're hearing out there is that they're uncertain of what they should be looking out for. There's the obvious phishing scams and the obvious type of attacks. But at the next level, what have we seen emerge over the last few months that they should be paying attention for? What do we predict, I know it's very difficult, but what can we predict that we might see emerge in the next 6 to 12 months? Because this looks like it's going to continue for a while. Our relationship with MSP is I always compare it to us, let's say, in an automotive service car-- when you service your car-- I always perceive us as the one providing them the tools, providing them with the knowledge, how to fix the car, but they are really the technician on the ground. They're the ones who are going to fix it. They're the ones going to deal with the client. If I look at that analogy, some of the things that I think there will be some level of challenge is really on the telemetry. The majority of our MSP customers really have to have the best detection and understanding of what is really happening in their horizon, in their clientele. This is really the biggest challenge because how do you actually do that when 80 to 90% of the operations that you're managing right now have moved to places that you don't even know? So that is the biggest challenge that I think a lot of our MSPs and even, I guess, in the remote operations will really come into play. The other things that we're going to see is that when you are in a remote operation-- Rik talked about VPN earlier that he's not accessing too much, and I am the same way. But the point is when I have to call my own IT guy, they will be using a lot of remote tools. They will be connecting to my computer system and all the stuff. So what we're seeing right now is that attackers would likely be moving into those tools, programming tools, detection tools that a lot of our IT people are using to be able to work and service a lot of the employees. We've seen RAT, or Remote Access Terminal, being compromised. Once that hits the road, we know that once they are able to get in into a very unsecured location like where am I today, it's going to be a big IT challenge, security challenge. I think that's one thing that we see as we have, I guess, expanded our workspace. The second one is how do we manage what I call "managing the data." This is really very tough because remember, every time that we click, we swipe, we tap, it's equivalent to data. So how are we going to do that when there is a very blurred line between what is my personal data versus my corporate data versus other information? This now comes in, and what I hope we will not see but likely, is data contamination because we've had a lot of devices interacting. Some of them are personal. Some of them are not. Then we are able to really mix this hybrid one, and where do we store them, it's also a big question. I think those are the two things, in the context of MSP and also the context of the next remote operations, that we would like to get a look at. If we kind of flip it to the attackers, as we call them, and if we delve a little deeper-- pardon the pun-- into some of the areas we've discussed around malware, identity theft, phishing, etc., we look at the bad actors, the individuals, the organisations, the online on the ground that's at play here. We keep talking about the force change innovation that's been put upon businesses, whether they're SMBs to enterprises. But have these organised crime gangs, attackers, and individuals, have they gone through a force innovation and a change in relation to how they operate with their "businesses"? Can we talk about how they're organised now? Is there a shift? Is there a change? Or are they just saying this change that we're seeing everywhere has just literally accelerated the opportunity for us to exploit what's going on in the world right now? I don't think they are really changing a lot. I think they're definitely thriving-- that's an understatement. (Rik) Glad you said that, Myla, because I was like, "I don't think they have either," so good, I'm glad we're in agreement there. (laughter) Yeah, but I don't think they're really changing a lot because I think a lot of them have been working on a remote operation much earlier than we do. So they are probably a master of this. Why am I saying that they're not really changing? It's because the attacks that we're seeing today-- I don't know if this is a debatable item between Rik and I-- but I think I have not seen an earth-shaking level of attack that is so new. For instance, ransomware. Our friends from Europol and our friends from Interpol have also rated this as their number one problem today and probably the next six months. That hasn't changed. So I don't think they are really changing in a lot of their ways. The welcoming thing is that they even have what I call a more expanded network. It's easier for them to now penetrate our infrastructure just because, again, of remote operation. It's easier for them because our go-to people, our experts, are really harder and harder right now to reach. So I think, as I said, they're thriving more than anything else, but they're relying on the same technique, same way that they are able to really compromise us in the past. I think there's a few things, but I don't think it's particularly driven by pandemic, by remote working, by any of the changes that we've been speaking about. Ransomware, like Myla said, we thought, maybe 2-3 years ago, it was like, "Wow, it's in serious decline. We're seeing far fewer families, far fewer detections. Ransomware's finally over or on its way out." Then just like COVID, the second wave came, and it was different. It mutated, it was attacking enterprises rather than consumers, it was asking for much bigger ransoms. There was that mutation. Then what we've seen more recently, I think, is not a response to pandemic, it's a response to enterprises upping their game in terms of being able to respond to ransomware. Everyone's aware that it's a big threat. Everyone's aware that it can be a big cost. Those people, for example, that weren't taking care of their backups as well as they should, for example, upped their game, backups became fashionable again. People were looking after them. Ransomware operators realised that. One of the tactic changes we've seen relatively recently in ransomware is to say, "You might not want to pay my ransom because you might think that you have a way out of this-- your backups, for example-- but if you don't, I'm also going to leak the data that I've encrypted because not only did I encrypt it, I stole it at the same time. So it doesn't matter if you can decrypt it because I'm still here to cause you trouble, and I'm still going to extort money from you, just with a different mechanic." They definitely evolved their attacks and their tactics over time, we know that for decades, but not as a result particularly of the pandemic because it hasn't driven them to do so. Like Myla said, in some ways, it's actually made their job easier because now they can focus, for example, on misconfigured cloud services that are relatively new to the business that's using them or they can focus on poorly secured home networks that really weren't a concern for the enterprise environment before. There's a lot of new ins, and old tactics work perfectly well, thank you very much. If we look at the idea of this massive remote revolution that we've seen, I think that drives a lot of the conversations that we're having. We're seeing these businesses now, people working from home, people working in isolation. One of the campaigns we're working currently at the moment when we look at our MSP is these partners moving to SaaS solutions. We're kind of talking about the office of the future. It's no longer the big building in the centre of the big city. No. Might have been that for a while, but that's what a lot of companies are realising now. Essentially, your office is where you find yourself: at home, the office, coffee shop, hotel lobby. From your perspective and based on what we've discussed so far, it's a difficult question to ask, but can you kind of touch on what you believe the future workplace architecture is going to look like? Then how do they protect against this not just from an MSP, from a partner, from a business perspective? The big buzzword at the moment is SASE. That's something that's being kind of pushed particularly by Gartner. That has a very strong use case in the office of the future. The network/office of the future, to my mind anyway, looks a bit like this. This, weirdly, is something that I was talking about last year in a presentation. I was saying probably five years from now, that kind of horizon, when we'll see this. Pandemic has hugely accelerated that. I think we're talking very compressed timelines now, 12 months or so. The enterprise, the corporation, the company, owns no infrastructure. That's the first big change. All the infrastructure is outsourced to someone else, in one way or another, so MSP is definitely a component of that. All the networks are untrusted, as a result, because the networks don't belong to you. The things that you have to manage, you've got your population of users, but you need to begin applying dynamic policy to each one of-- I don't know why I'm looking down there. There's no users down there. There's a microphone. But that's where I'm imagining my users are. You have to start applying dynamic policy to those users depending on where they are, what time of day it is, what projects they're working on, what kind of network they're currently logged in to. So your number of users has grown exponentially because it's not just the physical people, it's all the different profiles for every individual that you have to be able to dynamically manage and shift. That's a big change. As well as that, you've got your population of connected things, which is growing exponentially, particularly as 5G rolls out. You'll have more autonomous connected devices that are part of your network. How do you do identity and access management for all of those things? How do you assure yourself that no one else has had access to them, that configurations haven't been changed or firmware hasn't been modified? That's a whole new challenge as well. Businesses won't be running IT for IT's sake any more, which is the case right now-- things like, for example, active directory-- because all of that's outsourced. Every IT project will be business focused. No company ever became a world-beater by being the best at running active directory, so they'll get someone else to do that for them and focus on IT related to the business. Every legacy deployment will be in a container architecture, so they can put all the dependencies and everything that you need to keep that legacy thing functional within that container and manage it in that framework. All of the forward-looking, more modern deployments will be in a serverless template. The area where there's going to have to be massive investment on a corporate level is in machine learning because at the moment, I think what a lot of companies are doing is looking at their vendors-- people like Trend Micro-- and saying, "What are you doing with machine learning and AI?" which is a fair question, and we're doing a lot, which is a great answer, but businesses need to look to themselves. I think the Shakespeare quote is something like, "Physician, heal thyself," or something like that. They need to look to themselves and say not only what can my vendors do with machine learning-- this is probably very true for MSPs-- what can I do with machine learning? How do I upskill my workforce? How do I get that expertise into my business? And how can I complement and improve my services with business-orientated machine learning? How can I provide added benefit? Because the amount of data that we're generating now within a security function is already more than humans can deal with. So we have no other option than building in more machine learning into our processes. Fabulous. Anything you'd like to add to that, Myla? Yeah, I think Rik covered one of the things that I think it's like a tug-of-war thing, which means that there is a lot of movement and acceleration in digital transformation. We've heard that buzzword for a long time. It's just that, again, the pandemic has massively enforced, or at least forced a lot of organisations not just to understand it but to adopt it as quickly as possible. That's one side. The other side is, remember, we still have old challenges today. The one that's really close to my heart is that I know that there are a couple of million of cybersecurity jobs that we have to fill in the gap. The more we will be more challenged right now because imagine, the kind of security risks were very different six months ago to where we are right now. To be able to catch up, do it, and deploy it in an elastic environment, it's very difficult. So it's almost like a tug of war. We want to accelerate, but how much are we really transforming it as fast as we could in a security perspective. So it's almost that portion. Some of the things that I think we feel really hard for a lot of our info security, IT, and IR is really more on telemetry reading, detection, looking into the right data, helping into whether this is the really big threat I'm looking at or am I looking at a very small component. Again, that is a big issue. I remember having a lot of conversations with some of our MSPs just really validated that one of the two problems that they have is there are fewer data logs that they could get access to because a lot, 50-60% of the people that they protect, is actually everywhere. How am I going to collect this information? The second one is how do I contextualise that so it becomes really actionable. It's not about receiving hundreds and hundreds of records. It's just really helping me... As I said, the element is the time. The element is also the complexity. But how can you provide me something, really helping me contextualise it, give me the narrative, and most important, it has to be actionable. To me, we will be in this space, probably the next 6 or 12 months, we will probably be in all of this remote operation. That is one thing that we need to intensify. Help them manage it in a more elastic environment and a more remote environment. The second one is how can we really help upgrade the right skills for a lot of our cybersecurity people? Because as I said that the challenges are far different from where we were before. The third element to me is that you can never stop an attack if you don't have the right detection. To me, it's how can I move into the right detection? Because that multilayer becomes more layers. I don't know how many layers do we have now. It's no longer the end points. It's no longer the cloud. I think we have a magnitude of layers between us and our users, between us and our clients. Also, we've got vendor managing some of these IT services. To me, that is like a hurricane. When you look at the hurricane, you don't know which direction it will go. We are in that stage, but we really have to come together and see what are the low-hanging fruits we can help to give them better access to the right information that they should have to protect their network. It's funny, I think it used to be that storytelling was a marketing skill. If you had someone who's a storyteller, you'd say that they go in the marketing function of the business because they can help people understand the bigger picture. Storytelling is now very firmly a technical skill, and it's a technical requirement because if you want to understand what just happened, you need to be able to put all of those pieces together and tell the entire story, right from, "This data was encrypted on this server." That's not enough knowledge. It might be enough knowledge for you to go, "In that case, I'm going to make sure I roll out a backup and everything's cool again." It's not cool again because you never heard the rest of the story. The rest of the story is how did the person get in in the first place, how did they move through the network, what did they leave behind them-- not just breadcrumbs but nasty bits of software so they can get back in again-- what vulnerabilities or configuration issues did they leverage, take advantage of, or misuse, and what was the end result in the end game across your infrastructure. So storytelling is a very important but, I think, equally very new skill that's hugely overlooked in technical roles now. But it's got to be part of the solution. If you can't tell the story, you'll never fix the problem. I love that. Great way to finish up. If you can't tell the story, how are you going to fix the problem? Guys, thank you so much for joining us today. We could talk to you for the next hour very easily. The one thing I'm always adamant that this is not really a big Trend Micro pitch when we come to doing this episode, but one thing I always want to get across to our listeners is that the best Trend Micro pitch is the advice and the knowledge that we have, surrounded by people like yourselves that work for the company. I think that's incredibly important. It's not just about solutions. It's about the advice, it's about the experience, and, as you said, Rik, it's about the storytelling. It's kind of an end to end. This is what's going to happen. This is what you need to look out for. I hope our listeners got that today from listening to this episode. To you, listeners, thank you so much for joining Episode 17. Next week, we'll bring you Episode 18. But for now, thank you. Stay safe and stay secure.   (music)   