 So today I'd like to talk to you about how Silver  Peak and Aruba can help unlock the potential of   the cloud, the potential of digital transformation  and giving you an edge um with our EdgeConnect   portfolio. Before I jump in though I want to give  you a little bit of history of Silver Peak. So, I   started the company in 2004. Back then we were  focused on WAN optimization, which is all about   using software and appliances to accelerate  data transfer in your traditional MPLS   router-based network. About 2012, 2013 almost  every second conversation that I engaged with   with a customer or prospect, they were  asking the question how can you help us   with our office 365 project, how can you help  us as we adopt workday and other SaaS services,   how does WAN optimization apply if I'm moving my  workloads from the data center to run in Amazon   and as we explored those questions with  the customers and prospects, we realized   that this wasn't really just a question about WAN  optimization, it was a question of how could they   build their WAN, how could they rebuild their WAN  with a cloud-first perspective, and it wasn't about   adding an additional appliance to that existing  network. In order to achieve their goals, they were   really going to need to replace that existing WAN  and we realized that this was going to be a new   opportunity for us as a company and so we decided  to invest in what we called WAN transformation   and in 2015 we launched our EdgeConnect portfolio  focused on this wan transformation opportunity.   So just as we launched EdgeConnect the words  SD-WAN became popular, SD in that context stands   for software-defined and when you look at what  we've done with EdgeConnect, it's certainly   software defined. We use everything in software,  we use APIs, we use automation and so on but as I   said to our engineering team many times and i  say to almost every uh every customer, I think   that SD should have stood for self-driving and  at Silver Peak, we've been really focused on   building a self-driving WAN. A WAN where you  describe what it is you want to accomplish   at the top level, what are the goals for each  set of applications and each set of users   and given those goals, have the network have  automation and machine learning drive that   network to deliver on those goals. This is a very  different approach than traditional networking.   The way things have been done for the last  couple of decades, you build a WAN with hundreds   or thousands of routers and for each of those  routers you go in and configure hundreds or   thousands or in some cases ten thousands of lines  of CLI in order to get that box to do what you   want and hopefully when they all work together  you end up getting the outcome that you want.   The idea of self-driving is to turn it upside  down, so that you start with the goal and you don't   touch the devices, you let the system orchestrate  all of those devices and you continually monitor   is my network delivering on those goals, are my  sessions meeting this quality and if not you're   adapting and making sure that you're keeping the  network in compliance with those overall goals.   That's really the idea of self-driving WAN  and that's what we do best at Silver Peak. So, why are customers looking at WAN  transformation? Well, the first thing is   the applications have moved, they've moved from  the data center to the cloud. The second thing   is the people have moved. Of course, even pre-COVID  people were on the move, so people wanted to bring   their own device. They wanted better work  from the airport, work from the coffee shop,   they wanted to be able to work from home and  then with COVID, obviously that work from home   element has become even stronger. You know when you  look at the Wide Area Network, the job to be done,   primary job to be done is to connect users  to their applications and if the applications   have moved and the users have moved then  you know it's really time to re-examine   is this the right network and what  do we need that network to look like.   At the same time as we're thinking about  building a cloud-first network, it's also   an opportunity to look for cost reductions, if  we can move away from costly dedicated MPLS   infrastructure and leverage internet particularly  consumer-grade internet to deliver the same result,   there's an opportunity for significant cost  reduction. A third factor is digital transformation   is on almost every CIO's agenda with two goals.  One is to kind of drive agility and efficiency,   obviously, in today's environment any way that  you can make your business more ready and able   to adapt to changes, the better off you are.  The second thing about digital transformation   is delivering unique experiences to customers,  being able to deliver a better customer experience,   a more engaging customer experience and very often  these projects are very dependent on having more   bandwidth and reliable high-quality bandwidths  into all of your locations. Now, as I said   WAN transformation is not just about cost savings  with Silver Peak, we can deliver a multiplier   effect. So, what do we mean by that? Well, one of the  things we do is we eliminate the trade-off between   dedicated infrastructure and public infrastructure.  When you think about dedicated infrastructure,   think about a dedicated data center with  dedicated servers running your own applications,   running over a dedicated VPN like MPLS. In this  environment, you have a high degree of control and   if you've architected things well, a high degree  of reliability and if a customer opens a case, is   having a problem and you go to troubleshoot that  problem, you know that you can trace through the   path from the user to the application through all  of your own infrastructure identify and fix that   problem, it's all under your control. In contrast,  when you move to the cloud everything's shared and   that pooling of resources has some huge advantages  in terms of delivering much better economics,   you also get much better agility, you're not tied  to buying the maximum amount you need, you can vary   based on the what your demand is and so those  economics and agility are compelling but on the   flip side what often comes with that is a loss of  control and a loss of reliability and a feeling   from the CIO and his team that they can't  be responsible for the SLA for everything,   when someone opens a case, it's hard to tell is  the problem in your infrastructure, is it in the   internet, is it in the cloud service and so one of  the things we've really focused on at Silver Peak   is delivering the control and reliability that  you're accustomed to with an MPLS network but   with the economics and agility that come from the cloud  and the internet. What we let you do is combine   multiple internet links to deliver a synthetic  quality of service with SLAs and a user experience   that's better than what you could get with just  MPLS. What this does from a business point of view   is it makes every application work better and  it accelerates your adoption of cloud services,   it accelerates your digital transformation  initiatives, it stops the network being a roadblock   in the way of those things that you're trying to  get done from a business perspective. So, what do   you need to do to transform your WAN, what how do  you maximize this multiplier effect? Well, first of   all it's about retiring legacy infrastructure, so  getting rid of those legacy routers, getting rid of   those firewalls and capping and potentially  reducing the amount you're spending on MPLS.   You want to be able to run over any transport,  so whether it's kind of enterprise-grade,   direct internet access over say metro ethernet  or it's consumer-grade cable internet or 4G   or 5G LTE or perhaps in the near future  low earth orbit satellite services like   StarLink beaming down a few hundred megabits.  Whatever way, we want to better combine those   multiple forms of connectivity and deliver a  synthetic SLA, a synthetic QoS that beats what   you've been accustomed to and so we want to better  leverage those multiple forms of transport with no   SLA trade-off. The fourth thing we want to do  is automate everything, so this is the idea   of describing what you want to achieve from the  point of view of high-level goals and then letting,   that letting our software and our automation  do the rest. While you're transforming your WAN,   it's a great point to look at security as  well and I'm going to talk more about this   in the subsequent slides but it's a real good  point in time to look at how can you leverage   cloud-based security services to replace your old  next-gen firewalls. It's also a good time to think   about segmentation and how do I do end-to-end  segmentation to keep my IoT traffic separate than   financial transactions separate than people's  emails and then finally we want to make sure   that we're giving you freedom of choice freedom  of choice to select what different service   providers you're going to use freedom of choice  with respect to what security stack or stacks   you're going to employ and whether they  reside in the data center or the cloud.   So that's good, what's changed in 2020, you know  I think there's two big things to talk about   the first is COVID, obviously  as we just mentioned before,   it's made work from anywhere on  the most synonymous with work from home and so   everyone's looking at what's the best work from  home strategy. The second thing is around SASE.   SASE or secure access service edge is a new term  that Gartner's coined and it's really spotlighting   a trend that was already well underway which  is the convergence of security and networking. So, let's look at this through the kind of latest  security, what we're seeing is that the cloud   is compelling the customers to look at  security transformation in parallel with   WAN transformation. On the left of the diagram, you  have your traditional security architecture where   you build a fortress around your data center  you use next-gen firewalls to build a perimeter   which separates the good which is everything  that's inside the ring from the bad the internet   everything that's outside and this architecture  you know works really well when all of your   applications are inside the data center. For people  working in remote locations and branches or from   home, you bring that traffic back across the  MPLS network or over a VPN back to the data   center through the firewalls and get access to  those applications. However, if those applications   are residing in the cloud then there's another  step because you come back to the data center   then from the data center you go to the cloud and  then from the cloud you go back to the data center   and then back across the VPN to the user on the  mobile phone and obviously this has got a number   of disadvantages. First, you're taking a much longer  path than what you'd like to so in the diagram   if you're on your mobile phone you're taking the  yellow paths all the way back to the data center   which might be in a different country perhaps  halfway around the globe then to the cloud from   the cloud back to the data center and back to your  phone. What you really want to be able to do is   take the green path direct from your phone to the  public cloud when you're using that application.   So, this challenge has given rise to the  idea of cloud-delivered security services   so pioneering companies like Zscaler have  developed a cloud-first approach to security   where they use an agent in a device to redirect  traffic to on the way to your application. So   on the way to salesforce, so on the way to  Workday you're going through a Zscaler   path and they're applying security there in line  rather than taking a detour to the data center.   So, this is a major trend that's  happening this shift from   the kind of firewall fortress perimeter-based  security to cloud-delivered security but for   everybody for every enterprise, every company,  it's not something that's easy to just switch on   overnight and for different users and different  applications, different approaches are required   and so one of the things that we can do with  Silver Peak and with Aruba is help you with your   security transformation which is about getting  from where you are today which is probably a data   center focused approach to where you probably  want to be tomorrow a cloud-first approach. So, Gartner's released last year around this time a  white paper where they introduced this term SASE   or secure access service edge and fundamentally  if you read the paper yes, it's about the   convergence of networking and security but it's  not just any kind of convergence it's not about   adding SD-WAN to a next-gen firewall or adding  next-gen firewall features to an SD-WAN edge.   Fundamentally, it's about rethinking the division  of responsibility, what things do you want to put   at the edge, you want a new one edge with  SD-WAN being a component doing the things   that the edge has to do to complement what you  do in the cloud and fundamentally there are some   principles. One is you want to do it in the cloud  if you can. So, there's lots of scale advantages,   pooling of resources advantages, update  advantages, if you do things in the cloud   it's going to be more efficient. The second thing  is that the edge should complement what the cloud   does. So, there are certain things that are awkward  or impossible to do in the cloud and so the edge   needs to be really good at those. Third or fourth  thing is that you want to have everything driven   by business intent, you want to have top-down  enterprise-wide security policies and consistent   enforcement of those policies and finally you  want the mobile experience or the home experience   to feel the same as the in-office and headquarters  experience. Then lastly and this is one that   you know Gartner is not always in complete  agreement with but something I really believe   is that customers want to have freedom of choice  to choose their cloud security stack and to choose   their edge independently. There's some people that  believe that all in one is the way to go but I   think as you examine your situation, do you really  want to be locked in do you really want to have   just one vendor doing all your networking and all  of your security particularly in security where   things change all the time I think you're going  to be able to want the agility to adopt different   vendors with respect to different user groups with  respect to different applications and use cases   and so that's what we want to enable with our  edge we want to be a neutral edge that enables   you to implement the security strategy that makes  sense for you at the pace that makes sense for you. So how do we do that, well um there's many  things under the hood but to think about it   very simply imagine that today you were  used doing everything in a data center   you could implement our SD-WAN and as you do that  we will continue to send all of those internet   cloud desks and applications to the  data center just the way you do today.   Then you could decide you know what, I trust  what microsoft's doing with office 365,   I trust zoom, I trust 8x8 and ring central  voice, I don't need to send that to my data   center, I want to break those out directly  in the branch and you can do that we've got   a built-in zone-based firewall in our edge so  you can send those applications direct to net.   You then might decide that you know what in  addition to those applications I'm seeing   coursing through my data center a lot of people  doing um personal things so they're browsing   their email they're on Facebook they're  watching Netflix, they're watching YouTube   maybe they're shopping on Amazon I don't really  need to bring all that traffic back through my   data center but i don't want to just break it out  without any further inspection so for that class   of traffic I want to set up a policy that sends  it to a cloud security service maybe Netscape or   maybe MacAfee or Symantec and have them inspect  that traffic and make sure that there's no threats   in all of that um um home from work traffic so  to speak. So, with Edgeconnect, we allow you to   at your pace decide what things do I break out  locally where I can take advantage of a CDN   and a very kind of rich delivery infrastructure  that a vendor like Microsoft might have. What   things do I send to a cloud vendor and  what things do I bring back through the   data center and you know even looking far  forwards into the future it may be that   when you see something really strange um something  that doesn't fit normal patterns the policy is   you want to bring it back to the data center  where you have very advanced security stack   with sandboxing and advanced persistent threat  detection and so on. We let you make those choices. You know another interesting thing about that  SASE white paper is that a lot of the focus is   around users and applications and obviously  that's a huge job for the Wide Area Network   but there's another source of traffic  which is becoming increasingly important   and that's device to cloud and device  to device traffic associated with IoT. What you'll read in the paper is that  leading SASE offerings will require   an agent and so if you look at any of these  cloud-first security services like Zscalers,   fundamentally what you do is you install an  agent on your laptop or your mobile device   and that agent ensures that when you're  going to a SaaS service like Workday   rather than going straight to workday, you're going  via the most convenient point of presence for that   security service and most of these vendors have  hundreds of sites worldwide so it's not a detour   to get there it's on the way. So, this is all good  if you're a mobile or on a mobile or on a laptop.   However, for everything else for printers, cash  registers, cameras, VIP phones any kind of sensor,   all of those things are really impossible  to install an agent on and so the only way   that you're going to be able to apply cloud  security services to that traffic is if you   intercept it at the edge and so a huge role of the  edge is to intercept all of that device traffic.   If you step back and think about it, there,  the edge is really the pivot point it's   you've got your kind of people and your things  and your branches and your remote locations,   you've got applications and security that resides  in the data center and you've got application and   security services in the cloud and you want  to be able to at your pace transform your wide   area network to be able to leverage internet and  broadband services in addition or instead of MPLS   and you want to be able to transition from a  perimeter-based security setup to something   cloud-first and the way that that can be done  is by steering traffic or pivoting from the edge   and so we see the edge as being a great place  to start in these transformation initiatives.   You know I'm really excited I'm just a few  weeks since in now since closing on the deal   with Aruba and HPE and really excited  about what we can accomplish together   there are a lot of opportunities for us. So  we can integrate in with Aruba's Clearpass   NAC infrastructure so that when we make decisions  we're not just looking at the application   we also know the who what which person is this  what part of the organization are they in or   if it's a device is this a thermostat or is  this a security camera or is this um a cash   register and we can factor that in to not just  our reporting but our policies and our control.   We can also integrate in with the LAN and SD-LAN and extend segmentation all the way from   Wi-Fi access points and LAN switching all the  way across the network to the other side to the   data center or the cloud. We can deliver unified  threat management we're going to integrate in   with views through Aruba central  and tie into Aruba's AIOps infrastructure. Another big part of things that we've talked  about is thing of working from anywhere and with   Aruba, we bring to bear a broad range of options, so  for agent-based solutions for someone who's really   mobile, Aruba has a VPN called via which is which  you can use, we also have partner services from   people like Zscaler or Netscope with zero trust  network access. These work by installing an agent   on a mobile device or a laptop no need for any  hardware no need for any wiring truly lets you   do work from anywhere and then we have device  based solutions so Aruba has remote access point   and on access point and SD-Branch offerings  to complement our EdgeConnect solutions. These   hardware-based solutions let you replicate your  branch or headquarters environment inside people's   homes or in a kiosk. They're ideal when you want  to support multiple devices so maybe the person   doesn't just have a laptop they have a hardware  VoIP phone they have a printer, maybe it's a doctor   and a kiosk and there's some internet connected  testing equipment. In that type of situation   it makes sense to go with a device-based  approach to work from anywhere or work from home.   Another thing these devices have in many  cases the ability to leverage multiple forms of   connectivity so maybe 4G or 5G LTE and internet  in parallel. So, with this, you know we kind of have   you covered all the way from that mobile use case  to small kind of micro branch to a normal branch   at headquarters a factory or warehouse and  so on. So, to kind of conclude we're really   excited about coming together with the two  companies we have a portfolio which will   let you transform your network, transform  your security posture at your pace. Thank you. 