 Hi, everyone. Thank you for joining us for a tech talk today. I'm Dan Kronstal. I lead the cloud and data center transformation solution area for insight Canada. And I'm joined today by Garrett Jones and Carlande Desarme, who are going to speak with us a little bit about Sassy, which is an interesting new edge and network security approach. And they're going to show a little more, a little bit about why this is relevant for our clients today and what insight can do to help get you started. Well, good morning. My name is Garrett Jones, and I'm a cloud data center transformation specialist that insight here to help our customers navigate the multi cloud reality that we're in today. Good morning. This is Corland is, um I I joined the team, and also I have extensive experience in network in troubleshooting and also designing architected network from the telecom and the poorest part of you and as well, from the cloud part of your deployment. So I'm here toe support and help the customers with the solutions that we provide and get successful with the team. Thanks, guys. Uh, Carla and maybe you can share a little bit from the technical perspective, What is sassy and why? Why is this new kind of technology for for a networking clients? Sure, sure, definitely. Actually, See is one of the new model architectural approach that we usedto actually leverage The cloud solutions and also the migration from legacy are traditional and environment to the cloud. So such providers with the facility toe actually use different sides of the deployments under. So the solutions the services to the customers with the best way efficiently and also with more security involved with more connectivity, approach and also the identity. When I say identity, I'm talking about the the zero touch provisioning and also some all sso. Although start all the all these things. So Stasi is helping us in actually providing a better service toe. The customers like seamlessly access to the services and the solutions and provide the customers and clients. I mean, toe not just access the solution, but ah make sure the the security is taken care by providing a better security, very access and also the identity protection security sides and also, uh, high availability of the service so sassy we are ready to move either to the crowd toe reversion SD when security will be all measure with all major providers in the network in this in the industry and also take advantage as well. So what we already have in the data center. So that's all we can do is sassy, cool. So it sounds like it's basically a way of capturing, um, a bunch of tools that have already bean either in customer environments or available from different providers and putting a real model and framework around it. Can you tell us a little bit about where the need for this thing kind of package comes from? Sure, Dan, um, you know the answer. The question why sassy and SD When Now I think, you know, Let's let's start by looking back, you know, long, not long ago, data traffic, you know, in the Enterprise was, you know, 75 80% internal at the headquarters and our branches and, uh, maybe 2025% was over the Internet. So you know, the smaller amount, and now it's almost the exact opposite. There's a few things that have driven this change over the last number of years. You know, the consumption of public cloud, APS and Cloud Services has exploded and continues to explode. And add to that, you know, this distributed workforce that had been growing but now certainly in a covert error, is having become even more profound and had a significant impact of how we managed to look after that distributed workforce. And finally, the one thing that we all see every day the proliferation of small, you know, smart mobile devices and different things that we connect into the enterprise wherever we might be has had a tremendous impact on how we manage and secure and deliver services. So what's happened is we've had a complete inversion. 75 to 80% of this traffic is now over the Internet, and only 2025% is internal. So what used to be what we call the enterprise perimeter has definitely evolved. It's no longer location, and it really it requires a set of dynamic, um, edge capabilities to protect and secure our customers data and their businesses. You know, traditional land and point security products have become quite complex and costly in this new world, and they're not easy, and they take a long time to deploy often difficult to manage and don't have a lot of flexibility. And ultimately, what's happened is performances started to suffer and become an issue, and as a result, the end user experience and productivity has been negatively impacted. So the bottom line old branch connectivity technologies like Mpls, which so great for so many years and point security products to service and protect this new cloud edge um, are just not making the grade for customers. And we're in this increasingly digital world and security is the number one priority. This is where our customers need help. Hence secure access services Edge sassy and S U N architecture is that new solution that's here to help customers address that problem. That's great, Garrett. Thanks that za really clear need and opportunity. Carlin. Maybe you can share a little bit about Where does insight get started with us asking for our customers? Sure, the 11 just even before we go like where inside is like helping the customers want to add a line with from what God just said. So one of the potential, uh, need we have for success is that it helps. It will be helpful is that we're now the way customers or clients usedto access the services and the solutions before is no longer the same way that today we're talking about, like accessing the services. I mean, before it was like You have to be on site, you have to be in the network. You have to be in the local network to be able to access the suit, the services, and now it is changed so it can be anywhere we must access and plus I ot right now, Internet of things. So we also consider the way we access from where we access. What do we use to access the devices? Mobile devices, All these things. When more traffic into the solutions it one more traffics very infrastructure. And the local resident there can no longer and support this amount of traffic. So now we need a way. Okay, so shift. Okay, We need to think about like moving some solutions. So the cloud now, how do we integrate this cloud solutions we build existing that a center solution. That's where sassy is gonna be one of the key feature or the model that we will follow. We will use so like, make sure that we still care for the security. We still care for the connectivity, but which ability to the solutions is in every aspect. Because we accessing from different ways different devices, different locations and two different, uh, geographic, um, hosting point off the solutions where they're hosting the Gardez in the data center, in the cloud or in the anywhere. So this is very important for Sassy, where we're gonna be very beneficial and then some off using. Put this this model into practice for the devil, develop the services. Now come back to the question, then how insight is helping in terms off, like delivering the solution. What is the up? Which inside is taken? It's It's simple. First thing we make sure we understand the customer, uh, infrastructure. We understand. Okay, where we can start leverage in the technology or the model where we can start thinking about migrating the customer networks. And what's the requirement? The requirement is just It's not just what we have, they have now. It's like toe short, medium long term, uh, exposure of the network where the customer is going, and that's where we will think about the connectivity okay. What the customer has do they have like what? Now I'm an imperialist link. Okay, we're thinking about going to s u N Okay, if you go to us, do n Why do you want toe Keep paying those expensive in Paris circuit when we can river which honestly one solution that will help you toe when the cost down off the business and also be most terrible to the solution, accessibility and security. So we take care of all this with the analysis off the customers for searcher we go beyond about security. Okay. How the access What is the strategy that can be used to make sure the customers that you're not just access in the solution but in the secure, secure way like, ah, do we we take care about the identity Ah, with like you access Okay, one service and then you have access to all of the services which is sso single sign on so sassy gives us all this approach and we from inside we take care of that. We make sure that we understand your service. We understand your solution and your infrastructure and provide you with the best services and I will encourage that you, the police, contact the executive, uh, the contact with their for for, uh, any questions that may have, And they will be able to assist and And also identify the best solution specialist from our team that will be able to help you toe on board the solution and help you to deploy in design and to quit the solution with your in frustration. Interesting stuff for sure. There's, ah very comprehensive set of things that we're able to work with our customers to align to their, uh, companies outcomes and where they're headed. Um, I just want to add a little bit then, um, that at a high level, Sassy really is a digital business enabler for a customer. Right? And, you know, Carlin went over a lot of great things. Azzawi distilled this down. This is about converging land and network security services. Right? And the the SAS CSUN solution delivers some really key, powerful things to organizations, performance and agility. Is that the foundation, um, significant opportunity to impact costs? Yeah, and reduce those costs and and really reduce the complexity that has evolved with, you know, things being accessed from all kinds of devices from all kinds of places, as you heard Carlin speak to it also simplifies management gives us agility, and that's really key. So his businesses look into this kind of thing, um, improving their service levels. There are a Y obviously has to matter, and and customers are already seeing, you know, anywhere from eight months to two years. Forrester did a study that showed in one customers case that there was an R O Y 243% in three years. So these are very, very strong benefits, as well as economic impact that are of great value to customers as well. So if any of the things that you've heard about today resonate a bit with what's going on in your organization, you know some of the challenges you're having and dealing with this new network this new security implications, with more of the traffic going over the Internet versus and in our internal networks, we have a great deal of experience. Onda number of certified specialists and architects inside of insight supporting these types of solutions. So I encourage you to contact your inside account manager or your cloud data center transformation specialists and will coordinate our team in aligning with your organization and your next generation network and security journey. And we can help with assessments, proof of value, rolling, healthy services, even helping you manage the services. If that's something that is of interest to you. So I'll hand it back to you, then just wanted to have a couple of final thoughts there. That's great. Thanks very much. Guys really appreciate the time Garrett and Carlin Thanks for sharing the word about sassy and insights capabilities in this area. 