 - Hey guys, welcome back Naj Qazi here. And today's video I'm super excited to share a video that I've decided to launch the CCNA 200-301 certification course. I'm gonna go in depth into each topic covered in the CCNA exam. This video is section one part one of the CCNA exam and I'm super duper pumped, let's roll. (upbeat music) Welcome to CCNA 200-301 course. I'm super excited to share with you that I've decided to prepare a course for the new CCNA 200-301 exam and I can't wait to share more information with you. Before I get into it, I wanna give you my quick background. I've got a bachelor's in computer information systems and I was pursuing my master's degree in network security and midway I decided to drop out and instead I decided to pursue certifications because I was already working in the industry as an engineer and I thought certifications would provide better value for my money and time than a degree would. And it turned out to be a great decision. And that's exactly what I'm passionate about and I wanna share this with you as well and hopefully you can do the same thing in your career and become extremely successful. So what I ended up doing was I ended up picking an A plus certification and security plus certification from CompTIA. Along the way, I picked up a couple of Cisco Certifications like CCNP Enterprise, which used to be called CCNP Routing and Switching, CCDP, CCNP Service Provider, CCNP Data Center. And also a couple of Microsoft certs. I feel blessed to have had the opportunity to work for some of the largest Fortune 500 companies including AT&T, Bank of America, Level 3 which is now called CenturyLink. And I currently work for Presidio as a Principal Solutions Architect. And finally, I've been teaching CCNA and CCNP classes for over 12 years. And throughout my career I've been fortunate enough to coach and mentor many students and engineers who ended up achieving great success in their careers. I'm humbled by this opportunity presented by God. And my goal is to also help you do the same. Now back to the course. So there are six sections of the entire course. Section one network fundamentals, section two LAN, wired and wireless, section three, WAN routing, section four, IP services, section five security fundamentals and finally network automation. This is going to be an amazing course guys, I am super excited. And if you're ready for your career to launch like that NASA Spaceship get ready, let's go. Section one part one, network fundamentals, OSI model. Two things I'm gonna cover in this video. What is a network? And we'll then do an OSI model deep dive. The four basic elements of any network are rules, medium messages and devices. Let me explain. So let's say Bob wants to talk to Alice. Bob has a message like an email. So this right here would cover the message elements. Bob wants to send this email to Alice. Well, Bob is using an end device, right? He's using a desktop in this case so that covers the device piece. And what's in between Bob's computer and Alice's computer that includes the ISP in the middle and their home networks and all that. That would be considered the medium. And finally, for all this to work seamlessly this entire thing, we need rules. We need a common set of language that is spoken on both sides on Bob and Alice's side for the systems to be able to understand what Bob sent and be able to decipher that message and successfully deliver it to Alice. To do a little bit of a deep dive and to give you a little bit of a more real world perspective, think about it, at home you've got a PC that BC connects to a switch, that switch connects to a router and that router connects you to your ISP which could be Comcast or AT&T or whoever I have here. And this entire element, there are a couple of components of what I'm pointing out here. You got the end point right here which is the PC, could be phone, could be tablet whatever. You got these cables in between. These cables are connectivity or medium and these are important because these are the basic infrastructure element that allow communication to happen. You gotta have wires or some sort of wireless signaling to be able to communicate your messages. And then you also need a switch, so that's right here and we also need a router. Now the differences switches create what's called a LAN or a local area network. And we'll talk a lot more about that momentarily. And routers create what's called a WAN or a wide area network. And wide area network is a collection of different LANs connected together. And that's what at a high level we have in a network. Next element OSI model also known as Open Systems Interconnect Model. It was introduced by ISO the International Organization for Standardization back in 1970s. So it's been around a while. It's a reference model that talks about how the network should behave. And it's a seven-layer model and you can see the layers highlighted here. We have the overall model divided into two different parts. You got the top layers. These were called the host layers and you got the bottom layers these are called the media layers. Bottom layers are the ones that you're primarily concerned with as network engineers. Let's start at the bottom and work our way up. At the very bottom we've got a physical layer, right above that we've got a data link layer, network layer, transport, session, presentation and then finally application. One of the mnemonics you can use as a memory aid is if you start from top to the bottom, is all people seem to need data processing. In this mnemonic A stands for application, P stands for presentation. S stands for session. T stands for transport, N stands for network, D stands for data link, P stands for physical. So this mnemonic can help you remember the order of the OSI layers. And this is very important from an exam perspective. Let's dig a bit deeper. This time let's look at the top most layer. What we have at the top most layer of the OSI model is application. Now we're not talking about an actual application, but the function that the application serves. For example, you might wanna send an email that would be a function on an application layer. Or you might wanna do a file transfer to FTP, or perhaps a Telnet. That's how you log into a router remotely and be able to type commands and get feedback via CLI Or HTTP you open up a browser and you wanna search web. These are all different functions that are performed at the application layer. A layer below that is a presentation layer. This is where things like HTML comes in. This is where JPEG comes in. So when you go to a web browser and you open up an image whether it's gonna be a JPEG or a PNG file it's determined by the presentation layer. This is where MP3 comes in, AVI all that good stuff. Layer below that session this is the Interhost Communication layer. This is where things like Network File System and Session Initiation Protocol comes in. This is where operating system lives. Layer below that is a transport layer. And this is responsible for end to end connections and reliability. This is where things like TCP, UDP and RTP or Real-Time Transport Protocol come into play. A layer below that is called a network layer. This is where path determination and IP is located. So here is where IP comes in and routing protocols like RIP, OSPF, EIGRP all that stuff. Layer below that at layer two, we got ourselves MAC and LLC. And we'll talk about those details in a moment. This is where Ethernet comes in this is where ARP lives for the most part but ARP is kind of unique in a sense that it's got the layer two functions and it does communicate with the upper layer at layer three. Because remember ARP or Address Resolution Protocol is a mapping between an IP address and a MAC address. And we'll, talk through those details later when we talk about layer two section this is where VLAN comes in, it's a layer two construct, Frame Relay, PPP. These two are wide area network technologies and we'll talk more about them later in the course. And finally at the physical layer, which is layer one we got things like Cat 5e, we got multi-mode fiber, We got signal-mode fiber. So that's the OSI model on the left-hand side right here. On the right we got this model called TCP/IP model. And there's two different variations of this. If you look at the old school one it was divided into four different layers but the new layer that's also highlighted in the new CCNA book, is a five-layer TCP/IP model. And that's the model we used today where application, presentation and the session are combined together into a single layer called application layer. Transport remains transport, network is considered internet or we could interchangeably call it network. One below that is data link and finally physical. Now for exam purposes guys, you guys need to keep this in mind. So make sure that you guys memorize the OSI model because this is very important. Now the rest of this session is going into the details into the depth of OSI model. So if what I just talked about didn't register video, hang in there it is going to make a lot more sense as we do a deep dive into each layer of the OSI model. Here's another important element you guys need to think about and that's the encapsulation process. Before I describe the encapsulation process. Another term that's important for you to understand is called PDU, protocol data unit. And data within the OSI model at each layer is called PDU. So PDU for layer seven, PDU for layer six, PDU for layer five, so on and so forth. So that's a generic name given to data at each layer. That's how it's represented. The top three layers in the TCP/IP model are combined into application. This user has an email that needs to be sent to the computer on the right it's going to send data. When this data gets to the transport layer or layer four of the OSI model is called a segment. And transport layer is gonna add a header to it a TCP header. When it gets to the network layer, it's called a packet and it's gonna add an IP header. When it gets to the data link layer it's gonna add Ethernet header to it. And finally the bits that get transported across the wire to the other side. And then the other side looks at the bits it looks at the MAC header removes it then sends the data upstairs, goes to the LLC header which once again, LLC and MAC combined our Ethernet. So once the Ethernet header is stripped off the packet is sent to layer three looks at IP, removes the IP header sends it upstairs to the transport layer, transport layer looks at the TCP header, removes it and finally sends the data to this guy right here, who's able to read that email. This is how this communication happens. Now the process on the left is called encapsulation because we're putting envelopes or headers on top of the data. The best analogy I can give you is the post office analogy. When you take your package to the post office they stick a label on it and they provide you with the tracking number. Think of these headers that are added to the data as envelopes. And there's layer of on envelopes that get added when the date travels from North to South from application down to the physical layer, that's called encapsulation. But when the bits get to the other side the other side starts to remove the headers that's called decapsulation, the removal of headers. And the addition of headers is called encapsulation. So I just wanna make sure that you guys get these two concepts because most likely it's a good exam topic but also from a real world perspective, it's good to know. Now what's the purpose of the OSI model? For me, it's three things. First interoperability. Now that's a mouthful, but what does that mean? That means if I take a Cisco switch and connect it to an Arista switch, when they're connected together they need to be able to talk to each other. I don't want these companies using their own proprietary technologies because then that locks me into that vendor and I do not have the ability then to do anything. And as an enterprise as a government or any type of business entity I need to have that flexibility to be able to interoperate. So that's what the OSI model gives us. The second thing it gives us is a common set of language that can be used by these different vendors to continue producing great networking products that operate with different set of standards. So for example, layer one has its own physical layer standards and layer two has its own standards and layer three has its own standards. So when you're looking at a device that operates at layer two, for example it is only designed with layer two in mind, it doesn't have any intelligence of layer three or layer four or any of the layers above it. All it's concerned with is layer two. So that is an important element. And that's what also helps with the interoperability because that common language then allows these software engineers and these hardware makers to produce products that can talk to each other and integrate and interoperate. And finally, for me the big one is troubleshooting. So let's say if you have a user who says, "I can't access any website." Well, that means their internet is down, right? That's the first thing that comes to mind. But how do we test if it's just the internet or maybe something else going on? What we do is we have two different approaches one called top-down approach from a troubleshooting standpoint. And the other is the opposite of that, bottom-up approach. And with these approaches, you can what that means is top-down means you start out at the application layer and then you work your way down. Bottom up means you started with the physical layer and work your way up. Both approaches are valid. It just depends what you are troubleshooting. And based on the information that's given to you how fast you can get to the resolution of the issue that you're trying to address, that's what it comes down to. And as network engineers, like I said we're primarily concerned with four layers. So for us, that's the focus area because layer five to seven is primarily used by software developers and programmers for designing and writing code, all right. So now let's do a deep dive into the application layer. So the very first thing I wanna talk about from an application layer perspective is DNS. So let's say you type in cisco.com in your browser. The first thing that's gonna happen is your local machine is gonna check its local cache. If that DNS entry is available, it's gonna use it. But assuming it's not available, it's gonna to go to what's called an IDS or internal DNS server. Now, if you're a home user most likely you don't have a DNS server at home. Your IDS could be most likely your service provider DNS server. Your service provider DNS server if it doesn't have an entry, it's gonna forward that DNS request for cisco.com over to root-level domain servers. There's a handful of root-level domain servers on a global scale. And the root-level domain server is gonna get that request and go, "Well I don't know what the answer is" "but I do know someone who can point you" "in the right direction." It redirects traffic to top-level domain servers and these are .com, .org, .gov, .mil. In this case it's .com. So it refers to the .com. And then the top-level domain servers redirect our request over to the second-level domain servers. They're also called authoritative servers. And these are the servers responsible for hosting the actual website. What's gonna end up happening at that point is that the IP address for cisco.com will be provided to our internal server and eventually we're gonna get that reply and we're gonna end up getting that webpage. Now all of this happens in a blink of an eye. This is a very fast process. And another thing I wanna talk about kinda taking a step back is, why have a DNS process to begin with? Well guys, if you get if you think about it, computers only understand zeros and ones binary code. Whereas as human beings we're good with names more than numbers. So for me it's a lot easier to remember cisco.com than remembering let's say 208.11.2.22, okay. It's gonna be a lot harder for me to memorize this. And then later on all the different websites dozens of websites that I search in a day it's just not humanely possible. So what we do instead is we have created this Domain Names System or DNS system that maps names to IP addresses. And this whole process that I just finished talking about let me go back to it, is the whole mapping process. And all these servers are responsible for redirecting traffic. If you don't happen to have that information in our local cache. In most of the instances if you're pointing to your local service provider, DNS with all the millions of requests coming into them most likely they will have that answer. So it should be a fairly fast process instead of having to bounce around all these different servers over the internet. Another example at the application layer is the DHCP or Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. So when you plug your client into a switch, what ends up happening is it sends what's called a DHCP discover request to the DHCP server. The DHCP server responds back with the DHCP offer. Then our client responds back with the DHCP request and finally the server responds back with the DHCP acknowledgement. At that point, you pick up an IP address. And that's what DHCP does, right? It assigns IP address says automatically we don't have to manually assign IP addresses. We just plug in our machine and gets an IP address magically, but there is no magic. I mean, it's all DHCP that's taken place. Another mnemonic that can help you from an exam perspective is DORA. What is DORA? Discover D, offer O, R request, A acknowledgement. So that's the DORA process for DHCP. Thanks for sticking around. By the way there's a lot more to this video than what you have seen. In order to watch the entire video you're gonna have to be a little patient because I'm working on designing an entire CCNA course. I'm gonna do an official launch in the next couple of months. But until then I'm gonna keep putting little nuggets of the CCNA exam out there on my YouTube channel until the course is ready to be published. Hope you enjoyed today's video. If you did give you a thumbs up hit subscribe and I'll see you in the next video. (media scratching ) 