 We go over some of the same stuff This is a portion of the show where we kind of dumb it down a little bit, right? So you could see in some great speakers speak before and talking about the science and where things are going I want to try to talk about practically and pragmatically Where we think we are today and try to bring solutions out today to address healthcare costs today We know we're approaching what three and a half trillion dollars in healthcare spend We're going to go up to potentially five trillion dollars You know here by 2025 2026 or GDP he's going to get to about 22 percent or more. That's unsustainable so We've got to do things today to try to engage people why this great science comes along And I'll kind of explain to you where I think things things are going and you saw in the hype scale You know connected home is at the top of the hype scale from that so it has been fairly Well hyped over the last you know, 10 12 15 years, and I hope I don't contribute to that but it probably will Part of this as I show up and finally we start discussing what we're trying to do and I'll craft this around where artificial intelligence kind of Contributes to it as well You know as you see the ring doorbell kind of it's you know coming up right now You see Alexa going into home if they see things those are Platforms that are going around the home and connecting to potentially hundreds of devices that are out there Well in the future We're probably gonna need things that are around the body or the person as well and in general It can't just be a wearable that you're gonna wear out there I mean Millennials I don't think even like to wear wearables anymore seniors Kind of do right from that but they've got to be ingrained and how they're ingrained and stuff ingrained into your watch potentially It's not a separate device that's out there and we'll talk a little bit about that So the market trends have kind of been seeing you know They out there is that we see all these movements and acquisitions are in current gonna cry I kind of use this hump You know of care and you've seen Fitbit over on the left hand side and Samsung and some of the other wearables companies that have been out there for years creating devices Selling millions of them but influencing very little on health care And then the other side is the Khan like scare aside the 5% that consumes 50% of health care little patients that are over there but a lot of spend over there as well where we see a lot of people moving to is Just over the chronic side into the newly chronic retired chronic in trying to stop people from spending money Right that's out there and there's not a lot of money being spent there quite yet It could be somebody that's pre-diabetic. It could be somebody that is Hypertensive you don't want to get those disease states exasperated. You want to catch them now? Before they get to a higher risk of more complex risks. So how do you do that? If not, a lot of money's being spent over there quite yet You can't give everybody a lap crop to try to keep them out the hospital It's quite an art to try to do that. The other thing we kind of see too And I said, this is also kind of be kind of be like a Gallagher show as well So I'm gonna firehose you with a lot of information so anybody in the front seat is gonna get wet and To the Millennials asked me next to you that understands who Gallagher is cuz I don't even think he's around anymore Is he from that standpoint? But on this, you know, there's converging trillion dollar markets that are out there like you just saw CVS acquire Aetna You know Walmart, acquiring, you know Humana, I'm just guessing that Amazon's in the market They'll probably acquire CVS and Aetna, right? Well Google and Apple acquire, you know, Walmart and Humana well McKesson acquire Walgreens, and why would they do that? we're bringing in tech retail and healthcare, you know, and actually large populations face-to-face and distribution you'll start seeing these type of mergers and acquisitions and convergence occurring to try to scale to get into that broader population that's out there the more of the Populations out there not just the 5% that consume fifty percent of healthcare So we know that we're actually going through and you know, 10,000 people - per day or turning 65 We know that people want to consume things differently now so now you're seeing you know, the bombas box or you're seeing Dollar Shave Club or you're seeing You know hellofresh and things people want what they want when they want it and they also want to consume Healthcare differently as well. So where's the AOA I a part of this I'll talked about then just a second But you know, there are things that we're seeing the farming the fun of the pharmacy is now converging if you know, you know The pharmacies face providers are gonna have you know pharmacies gonna have provided fighters status as of 2019 There's a lot of different things that are gonna start converging rapid Diagnostics. I mean, you know rapid diagnostic says glucose, right? It's on the shelf. But what about creatinine levels? What about BNP levels? What about troponin levels? What about GFR levels that are used in dialysis and congestive heart failure? That will start going to the shelf as well and it needs a transport layer to get to the cloud to be interview know to be Intervened on right from that standpoint You might see the episodic rapid Diagnostics like influenza or a1c or HIV to have the pharmacists doing that He shouldn't be counting he or she shouldn't be counting pills They should be doing other things in care and also, you know 90% of people don't want to be and sorry it actually didn't fly didn't work right, but I'll do it Anyway, 90% of people don't want to be in the hospital They want to be at home 90 percent of people can't afford assistive living that's out there so and the other part of it is when I talked to CEO of health systems and independent living are you going to be building more brick and mortars in the future or do you consider the home and extension of your System they're saying yes, I do But I don't know what I'm doing 10 weeks from now I don't know what I'm doing 10 months from now. So we got to solve the problem So when we look at this, we look at machine learning and AI and everything else from from the standpoint We have a system called personalized. We want to look at it from a couple different ways And this is truly just really around engagement and engagement From the standpoint that I want to put out solutions and there's multiple different Solutions out of thousands of solutions to be able to do that. Some are very disparate Maybe just green glucose readings and others may be more holistic But the big thing that the AI systems need the machine learning systems need out there Yes They need to have data and they need to have data from the home and they need to be able to do it economically And align it you're not going to go out with a congestive heart failure patient them and give them a Fitbit And go through and say here I'm gonna keep you out of the hospital because that's probably not gonna work You're not going to go through and take somebody that's not going to the hospital to get my lap To try and keep them out because it doesn't line You've gotta line the right technology the right solutions to be able to make the right economics work for the right outcome to get that data and the other thing is knowing your populations - now we trend 10 - This was going through and saying at 70. Are you old? Well, it really depends on your mindset It really depends on your activity level. It really depends on your disease state right as well I mean are you active or are you not in this you know from that standpoint? And then the other part of it is, you know, people are determining that that data that comes in Also has to be smart data now, it could be when my second company I did an IOT of healthcare and sold it to a publicly traded company It could be a COPD reading came in We went to the analytics that are into the clinical system said oh my god, they didn't take their medication We need to give them take their medication and pee on the hospital I got golf claps for doing that but now it is has to be smarter It has to be when that COPD reading comes in. It has to go through and say what was the pollution level outside? What was the temperature on the wall? Did they dip into two one one and they're there electricity has been turned off from that What was the regional status wasn't their economic status? What was their social status that was out. There we do Look at social behavioral and then you know physiological in that order So with this client it comes with severe Co P reading maybe it's just I need to pay for their electricity bill Instead of going through and giving them more medication and their medication to try to keep them on the hospital It's an economic thing of a two hundred dollar bill versus ten thousand for an emergency room visit So there's a lot more that these that it has to come in. That's smart So where does AI come in for us from this perspective is how do we engage people? How do we engage the cohort when we look at this we kind of talked about it and go there's two models I am human and I am me. I compare me to the human population ago, okay? Well, you've been doing take great taking your medication So I'm gonna give you a gym membership a silver sneakers membership, but if you only walk 300 steps a day Does that incent you maybe what incensed me is a Netflix subscription to be able to do that? So you've got aligned incentives and rewards with you what incense you to be able to do this and the one thing I do know Yes, I talked about thousands of spirit solutions that are out there. This is what's facing our senior population On a regular basis or they continue to do this and we can't do this Otherwise, it's not going to get used I mean we're bringing alarm systems and we're bringing Alexa into the home and we're bringing Smart TVs in the home. I mean I Don't want it right from that standpoint. It's all as well So, you know some of the target markets we go after which makes sense and I thought I just throw this in really quickly are People that are financially responsible for the patients. So why are you starting to see this market take off again? My previous company was out there ten twelve years ago We were aligned with Google and and in in Microsoft in Qualcomm and Cleveland Clinic and everybody else Everybody wanted this market to emerge but the problem that didn't occur was incentives were in theory at the payment model The risk model wasn't there yet? We were still at fixed fee when we needed to go the value-based care now that that's starting to occur You know, I think Amazon said the other day that they're willing to spend five hundred Billion dollars a half a trillion dollars on actually putting new healthcare initiatives out there paying a doctor five hundred thousand dollars a year You don't have to be worried about being on-call. You can just do your business and Amazon will take the risk on the population They'll go through and make sure the risk is there so the doctor doesn't have to do that so you take the anxiety down and give the doctor back what they want so aligning with the Organizations that actually have you know a need in the marketplace Why am I why am I lined with AMR ambulance is one of our customers? Because they see 70% of the ambulance rides are not necessary. They say 70% of the ER visits are not necessary They have 62 call centers they have in 50 states and their license They need to start going this direction to the home. They need to do fast response team every once in a while I'll say it. I'm on stage every once while I get a bout of afib and it happens on Saturday morning Where do I go the emergency room under an EMR thing? I call my UnitedHealthcare number and they come to me right to do that instead. So it's new and models of care and so the big thing my responsibilities and all this is Big data because I can say this to your room because you're grown up. So this is what you want and user engagement As well, that's what I want to drive. I want to integrate into the backend clinical systems I want to align the right technology and I want to be able to engage the Population to be able to get that technology as well on a common platform that allows us to plug in all these digital solutions and be able to deliver them to our customer base without Having to go through and have banner interface to a thousand different digital health solutions They don't even know potentially which one's work. And which ones don't work, right? So we want to do that, you know on a common platform and as I talked about before Making that data smart as it goes to that platform as well do the heavy lifting? you know for the Organizations that are out there that all they really want to do I mean, I'm gonna tell you back on this one really quickly, you know Marco usually examples but banner doesn't even really care if it's on the Van Gogh or gluco or Philips or whatever They just need glucose data They just need blood pressure data Needed economically collected and put in the back of their clinical system And so that's why we start building platforms that are out there to put that layer in between and let the economics work So they don't have to worry about themselves. Otherwise the potential he's not going to get done So we talked about trends and each subscribing one of the other things we're doing And I can talk about this is a project with McKesson To be able to go through and from nursing home to home Being able to release, you know a pretty patient from the nursing home And in that already has the medications the supplies or the e devices What I want to do is I want to stop the Buddha triangle I want to stop going from home to hospital to nursing home to home I want to put the care delivery in the system. It allows for them to get what they want just-in-time care with the supplies They need connected to exception based processing and go through and say, you know Kent looks okay It looks like he's stabilized today, you know So we're just going to deal with the deltas and the people that that aren't looking okay from a data perspective That's out there as well. But give them their supplies on a regular basis So that's why we created, you know, a digital therapeutic platform a digital health platform which allows us to have multiple different solutions out there because one solution doesn't fit all to try to engage patients and to get that data so that our customers can feed it into their clinical back-end systems their AI systems and try to Address the patients that really really need to have the services in a broader approach We all know call centers cost a lot of money We also know that a nurse going to a home cost a lot of money as well Wouldn't it be better to have the data in advance to be able to know? Who you need to go to next who that frequent flier is going to be that's going to enter that emergency room And that's what we want to do is to try to collect that data and that engagement on a regular basis now I'm gonna run short here really quickly on my speech, but You know, one of the things that we're creating is what we call it care of All right Nobody wanted to talk about wearables, but it's careful But it addresses in healthcare allows us to be able to go through and connect to biometric devices or medication reminder It's just icon driven. It is for mainly the senior population that's out there But one of the bigger things that does is as these micro arrays as the amino acids ask these bio chips as these rapid Diagnostics get done and they go on the shelf that like a Walgreens or CVS or Walmart? They're gonna need a delivery system to go to the cloud. So we have near-field on this band that allows you to basically take that GFR level or the troponin level and take a blood sample at home. Let's just take BNP level for congestive heart failure Take a blood sample take it touch it to the band throw this the diagnostic away and have the data go to the cloud and then go through the analytic system and the AI system go through and say Ken looks normal. His GFR is in the right range, you know He's moving more or less after he he took his medication of the day He's socially engaged little tiny bits of data to drive across a bigger population so we don't have to deploy a massive amounts of equipment out there because that's when you start blowing out the Economics that are out there as well That's why the drug chains are starting to embrace us because we start bringing them alive. And and by the way people go Why does Walmart why why does Walmart want to be able to have you know this band in the store for you? I mean is somebody gonna go this shelf and buy it? Walmart is now going to be responsible for a population of patients yes, McDonald's gonna be in the front of Walmart anymore or a subway gonna be there because now they want their membership that's coming to The front to eat healthy there now financially responsible for him just like CBS s right as well So they need to look for solutions that are sitting on their shelf that brings the stores together To make the whole ecosystem kind of work I'm going to go into all the aspects of it. We are seeing and the merging side of this we look at AI and IOT and Sorry Blockchain and VR and AR you are seeing predominantly needed in the healthcare space I mean, that's one of the laggards where it's not being utilized But that's one of the biggest trends where you're starting to see it I start I don't disassociate and have that in there, but there was there was that was the patient full-stack that I talked about but the patient full-stack means You know a lot of us in this industry have been going through and delivering Individual solutions to the marketplace. So we show up at at banner and basically say Here's our solution to be able to go get data You you go deploy it you go implement it and you go align it with the right patient cohort. You can't do that patients tell Full-stack is it is integration and the clinical banking system is services and solutions. It is devices It's deployment but it's driven at the top by intelligence It's got to be driven at the top so that somebody that's paying for this can put $1.00 in at the top of the stack And influence an outcome at the bottom. You can't approach, you know, the the marketplace with a disparity solution go here What would you do with it? It's got to be fully integrated or else you're not going to get very far with that And that's why I think the beauty of our platform does that's out there as well So I showed you a little bit about what's in the box, you know from the subscription This is this is gonna go very very well right from now Starting getting monthly subscription out there and it has an app behind it. It brings together Not only ordering supplies, but also men in birth installation But II devices with it feeding into the electronic health record It kind of brings it all together for the family and for the patient as well I'm not gonna go into it, but this are a whole portfolio of stuff that we put together one thing I'm only gonna emphasize on this If you know this market space very well there's a lot of heavy solutions out there of the consuming on that 5% that consume 50% and maybe I should have talked about those solutions are Doing scales and blood pressure and pulse ox is out and going through a hub and going in the backend system That market is slowly dying And the reason why the market is slowly dying because it's just too heavy of a model To be able to implement to be able to deploy you get these devices back clean them up And try to get them out to a patient So it means it's dying in the broader market It's still very useful in the 5% that consume 50% But if you want to get into the middle of that hump You better have stuff that's disposable transparent light Data-driven so when I send you from the hospital congestive heart failure Here's a band that doesn't cost much or I send you home with a biologic or especially Pharma like here's your dose of chemotherapy Did you take it are you moving more or less after you took it? Are you socially engaged did you get to your first appointment? Little tiny things like that to be able to implement with people instead of very very heavy and thick solutions So thank you. I know I went over my time, but I appreciate it 