BusinessGeneralMotorola Solutions is a global leader in mission critical communications and analytics. Our technology platforms in mission critical communications, command center software and video security, bolstered by managed and support services, make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive. We serve more than 100,000 public safety and commercial customers in over 100 countries and have a rich heritage of innovation spanning more than 90 years.We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928. We changed our name from Motorola, Inc. to Motorola Solutions, Inc. on January 4, 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Illinois 60661.Business OrganizationProducts and Systems Integration Segment  The Products and Systems Integration segment offers an extensive portfolio of devices, including land mobile radio ("LMR") handsets, infrastructure and accessories, as well as video security devices and infrastructure. The segment also includes the implementation and integration of such systems, devices and applications. The primary customers of the Products and Systems Integration segment are government, public safety and first responder agencies and municipalities. We also sell to commercial and industrial customers who use private radio networks and video security in the course of their operations. In 2019, the segment’s net sales were $5.3 billion, representing 68% of our consolidated net sales. The Products and Systems Integration segment has the following two principal product lines: Devices: Devices includes two-way portable and vehicle-mounted radios, fixed and mobile video cameras and accessories. Devices represented 65% of the net sales of the Products and Systems Integration segment in 2019.Systems and Systems Integration: Systems and Systems Integration include the infrastructure related to customized radio networks and video solutions and the implementation and integration associated with the systems. Systems and Systems Integration represented 35% of the net sales of the Products and Systems Integration segment in 2019.Software and Services SegmentAs of December 31, 2019, we changed the name of the "Services and Software" segment to "Software and Services." The change is to the name only and no other financial information has been reclassified from previous periods presented or for the year ended December 31, 2019.The Software and Services segment provides a broad range of solutions for government, public safety and commercial customers. In 2019, the segment’s net sales were $2.6 billion, representing 32% of our consolidated net sales. The Software and Services segment has the following principal product lines:Software: Software includes a public safety and enterprise command center software suite, unified communications applications, and video software solutions, delivered both on-premise and “as a service” and represented 26% of the net sales of the Software and Services segment in 2019.Services: Services includes a continuum of service offerings beginning with repair, technical support, and maintenance. More advanced offerings include monitoring, software updates, and cybersecurity services. Managed services range from partial or full operation of customer-owned networks to operation of Motorola Solutions-owned networks. Services represented 74% of the net sales of the Software and Services segment in 2019.Strategy and Focus AreasWe offer comprehensive solutions in mission critical communications, command center software and video security and analytics, bolstered by managed and support services that help our customers work safely and efficiently. These solutions are designed to be "purpose-built" for the unique needs of our customers, which include customers in the government, public safety and commercial verticals.Our strategy for long-term growth and the evolution of our business includes organic and inorganic investments in the following four areas: 3(i)Innovation in a standards-based mission critical voice and data solutions market, which is made up of LMR and Long-Term Evolution ("LTE") technologies. Our dedication, focus, and innovation for public safety and commercial solutions built the foundation of our LMR business, which is reflected in an install base of over 13,000 systems deployed in 100+ countries around the world. These systems often have multi-year or multi-decade life spans that help drive demand for additional device sales, software upgrades, infrastructure refresh and expansion, as well as additional services to maintain, monitor and manage these complex networks and solutions. We believe our government, public safety and commercial customers will continue to require next-generation systems, enhanced software features and analytics, as well as incremental services to drive operational efficiencies.   (ii)Service offerings that leverage our large global install base and allow our customers to improve performance across their systems, devices and applications for greater safety and productivity. Our comprehensive suite of services, ranging from repair, technical support, security and system monitoring to operation of customer-owned networks or Motorola Solutions-owned networks, ensures continuity and reduces risks for continued critical communications operations. Today, agency procurement models are primarily capital expenditure investments in customer-owned and operated solutions with long-term contracts. As communication networks have become increasingly complex, software-centric and data-driven, we have expanded our services offerings and accordingly, we expect the deeper penetration of service sales into existing LMR customers to be a driver in our Services business growth. (iii)Video analytics, network video management software and hardware, video cameras, and access control solutions for government and commercial customers. We have video solutions installed at thousands of customer sites, including school campuses, transportation systems, healthcare centers, public venues, critical infrastructure, prisons, factories, casinos, airports, financial institutions, government facilities, and retailers. We have invested in go-to-market resources to increase coverage and drive share gains in the video market. In addition, our strategy is to utilize the relationships we have as a leader in mission critical communications to expand our video security offerings further in the government and public safety verticals.  (iv) Command center software solutions to support public safety workflow from calling 9-1-1 and dispatching first responders to communicating with personnel in the field and managing records and evidence. Today, the public safety workflow is addressed by a variety of point solutions. We have built an end-to-end command center software offering that provides a unified suite of solutions across the public safety workflow which differentiates us from much of the competition. As the public safety market continues to embrace software offerings to enhance their workflows, we are able to sell cloud-based software as a service ("SaaS") offerings in addition to on-premise solutions with ancillary implementation and managed services.Our Customers and ContractsWe serve government agencies, state and local public safety and first-responder agencies, as well as commercial and industrial customers. Our customer base is fragmented and widespread when considering the many levels of governmental and first-responder decision-makers that procure and use our products and services. Serving this global customer base spanning federal, state, county, province, territory, municipal, and departmental independent bodies, along with our commercial and industrial customers, requires a significant go-to-market investment.Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force, which tend to focus on our largest accounts, and sales through our channel partner program. Our trained channel partners include independent dealers, distributors, and software vendors around the world. The dealers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. The independent software vendors offer customized applications that meet specific needs in the verticals we serve.Our largest customers are the U.S. government (through multiple contracts with its various branches and agencies, including the armed services) and the Home Office of the United Kingdom, representing approximately 9% and 8% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, respectively. The loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters as many of our contracts with these governments are long-term in nature. All contracts with the U.S. government, and certain other government agencies within the U.S., are subject to cancellation at the customer’s convenience. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to “