 Welcome to Hexagon TV live from Hannover Messe 2019 in Germany. Hannover Messe is the world's leading trade show for industrial technologies. This year a number of 6500 manufacturers are featured and a quarter of a million visitors from all over the world are expected to attend to 5 days event. We're here at the booth of Hexagon to explore the latest technology for smart manufacturing, come on let's go and have a look. we are showing a lot of innovations here what can visitors see here? Besides that we are describing how we think we can help to develop the smart factory, step by step, we have say end-to-end solution on the additive side as an example or we show our equipment now with 5G. I think it's a very interesting technology going forward which will change the manufacturing systems fundamentally. This year hexagon is showing manufacturers how to make it smarter with technology, to converge insights from design, engineering, production and metrology. Visitors to the stand can see Hexagon's new cloud-based resource management software in action. There's also a complete end-to-end tool chain for data driven additive manufacturing. And we look for which to a 5G connected future with a wireless sensor solution powered by Ericsson Industry Connect. So if you want to apply artificial intelligence and scale it among manufacturers many sensors then 5G you basically need it. Finally visitors are invited to see Hexagon Smart Factory vision brought life in an augmented reality experience but there's still so much more to learn. So I'm demonstrating the SFX Asset Management solution here part of the smart factory strategy for Hexagon. For a customer especially a factory floor manager or an operator it's very important for them to know what is the health of the asset that's doing that and doing that in real time really helps them manage their processes better. So in overall it makes it smarter for the customer thank you. So this is a demo part for an additively manufactured piece. This piece shows that there might be an issue. How can this piece and this demo help the customer to make it smarter? So detecting an issue is the first step the second step is of course working on optimising the piece and that's what the software can support. The booth of hexagon has given us a window to the future of manufacturing so get in touch with Hexagon and find out how you can #makeitsmarter. My name is Leonie Singh Dhillon live here from Hannover Messe 2019 with Hexagon TV. To learn more tune into hxgnspotlight com 