 We've been hearing a lot about artificial intelligence lately, but the idea is not new. People have been trying to imitate the human mind since the 18th century. Human intelligence is a combination of two abilities: the ability to recognize - for example, a person in a crowd - and the ability to reason. And it is this ability to understand that enables humans to create and associate concepts, see relationships like cause-and-effect, and imagine the future. The artificial intelligence we are hearing so much about today, which is often based on neural networks, can only copy the ability to recognize - something it can sometimes do faster and more efficiently than the human brain. However, today artificial intelligence cannot replicate the complexity of the human thought process Artificial intelligence cannot process complexity like the human brain does. And complex systems are everything you look from a tree to the entire set of mechanisms that make up our climate. Our everyday lives are filled with subtle cause-and-effect relationships. In a sense, everything in our world is interrelated! And businesses are no exception to this rule. Each department in a company interacts with each other, and they all have their own expertise regarding separate parts of the system. However, it is impossible for a single person to fully understand the system For this reason, the actions of one part of a business can have unpredictable impacts on the business as a whole. Our world is constantly changing, which is why understanding significant future events that have not yet happened using only artificial intelligence is such a challenge. Augmented intelligence goes beyond what artificial intelligence can do. Here's how it works. The first step is to gather knowledge from the people who have it, the experts! The experts describe the part of the company they know well explaining business processes and cause-and-effect relationships. However, in some situations not even the experts know everything. This is where artificial intelligence comes in! Using historical data, artificial intelligence algorithms can detect correlations that human experts might have missed. These are the two components of augmented intelligence, a technology that combines the best of the human brain and artificial intelligence. The models are then used to simulate a variety of scenarios to determine which one will provide the best solution to a given problem. Our knowledge of modeling and simulation of complex systems forms the cornerstone of the solutions we develop at Cosmo Tech. Our solutions help our customers to better understand the complexity of their environment so that they can make optimal decisions. 