 So we're in my barn. It's in Redmond, just on the north side of Redmond off 126. Our project is to build an AR sandbox, A.R. stands for augmented reality so it's a sandbox that you can interact with and play with and create different formation of sand, and then a sensor picks up the depth of it, and a projector projects a topographic map in real time as you're playing with it. It's a great earth science learning tool, for geography, terraforming, things like that. This assignment was for students to initiate, plan and then execute and close a project successfully of their own choosing. I threw out the idea to the group members and we're like "oh yeah, this is a interesting idea." Probably what I did most was assist with building and planning of the design. My name is Kenney Hersch, I'm a junior majoring in computer science sustainability and a minor in business entrepreneurship. I was skeptical, but I usually am. Especially in my degree, you know we're always doing our best to prove things wrong, so that we know we are right in the end. So my name is Ryan Lunsford. I'm the business major, so I like to think I can you know work here with all different majors and kind of bring everyone together on the same page. I have seen projects fail, absolutely--and most projects do fail in the real world. So until the very final stretch away we were actually kind of looking pretty dire. I was in charge of getting the the funding at first and so when I got in touch with our first vendor and they fell through, I felt like I let the group down, even though it wasn't necessarily my fault. So we rallied back, talked to the team, talked to Kim, she was super helpful, super supportive, told us we can do it, we could push through, me and Kenny got in touch with a couple other local businesses, and all ended up coming together in the end. When we fired this thing up and we saw the topographic lines loading onto the sand and it was all there and our hard work finally paid off me and Kenny I think we probably screamed for about 30 seconds in here and gave each other high-fives. When it flipped on and the blue light hit the sand it was really great and then once the program came just watching all the lines change and stuff is really satisfying. Kim's made it a good experience. You know, allowing us to do this project, and really tell us to go for it was... was inspiring. Coming over to OSU Cascades it's like a big family because we all know each other I can talk to basically anyone that I see around campus. In the classroom we can have like in discussions. The one-on-one is definitely the big part of it. The biggest thing I learned from Kim is just having tenacity: just drive, and believe in yourself I guess? Because she believed in us. So, took that-- (laughs) took that to heart. If you think of mankind's greatest achievements, you'll think probably of things like landing a man on the moon, or the invention of the internet, or the development of vaccines. All of these were projects, and effective project management is extremely important for our students to be able to contribute to whatever that next big thing is. 