 Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you all so much for joining us today we're going to be getting started shortly. Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you all so much for joining us for today's webinar. And before we get started, I wanted to take a moment to tell you about some upcoming courses that we have scheduled Michelle | COEH CE: On Wednesday, December 2 Dr. Ellen aizen will be presenting on job loss suicide and overdose it case study on Michigan auto workers. Michelle | COEH CE: On Tuesday, December 8 we've partnered with Johns Hopkins Education Research Center for Occupational Safety and Health to offer a free a webinar on data professional judgment and modeling and occupational exposure assessment that will be presented by Dr. Ramesh children. Michelle | COEH CE: Our next ergonomics webinar is going to be on Wednesday, December 16 with Dr. David do fried and Dr. Nathan team. Michelle | COEH CE: And fatigue in the workplace effects of health and performance and measurement considerations in partnership with the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and University of Iowa. For more information you can visit us@berkeley.edu backslash about see Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you again for joining us and we're going to be getting started in just a moment. Michelle | COEH CE: On behalf of the education and research centers throughout the country. We're pleased to present the ergonomics webinar series, we have for free webinars. The third Wednesday of each month. Michelle | COEH CE: And this collaborative effort on behalf of each ERC us continuing education program aspires to provide access to current research support it. And I asked year see programs we're really glad to have you here with us today. Michelle | COEH CE: Today's webinar emerging technologies, the future of ergonomics is brought to you by the North Carolina Occupational Safety and Health Education Research Center, the ergonomics center and Jeffrey Michelle | COEH CE: A few housekeeping items. First, you want to be muted during the presentation. If you'd like to ask a question, please enter it into the online Q AMP a Michelle | COEH CE: Will save time at the end of the presentation to address questions. Michelle | COEH CE: Any participating is logged in with the registration email for the full live presentation today will receive a link to the recording and an evaluation form tomorrow at 12pm Pacific time Michelle | COEH CE: This evaluation will qualify participants for a certificate of completion with one continuing education contact our once the evaluation is completed, you'll be able to access and print your certificate Michelle | COEH CE: This presentation is being recorded and will be made available on the CH Northern California YouTube page and on our website where you can also find recordings of the other ERC ergonomics and industrial hygiene webinars. Michelle | COEH CE: At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our presenter Jeffrey coil and CP and director of ergonomic services for the ergonomics center of North Carolina part of NC State University at Riley. Michelle | COEH CE: He specializes in helping companies optimize business performance. If you're ergonomic services such as comprehensive program development. Michelle | COEH CE: Ergonomics cultural growth and maturity training at all levels ergonomics analysis and implementation of practical solutions. Michelle | COEH CE: He also serves as a research liaison between client companies and CSU faculty and students and applied research projects. Thank you so much for being here tonight. We're looking forward to your presentation. Jeffrey Hoyle: Well, thank you, Michelle. And sorry for the pop ups here. I'll try to get, get rid of those just wanted to say thank you thank you to NIOSH and I'll Jeffrey Hoyle: All of the education research centers out there and all the partners that we work with, and a special thanks to UC Berkeley for for helping organize and host these webinars. Jeffrey Hoyle: So I think whether you're in academia or in private industry or in government. I hope you get something out of, out of today. Jeffrey Hoyle: I will say, even though I'm I'm employed by University. I'm really more of a practitioner than an academic since we are primarily an extension service that provides expertise to industry clients yet. We also dabble. Some in some applied research projects from from time to time. Jeffrey Hoyle: And forgive my background noise. Give me a second here. I'll just unplug my phone. Jeffrey Hoyle: Okay and I'm going to take myself off of off of the video conferencing. I'm sure you want to pay attention to the content, you'll be taken copious notes throughout the the duration here sudden instead of looking at at me. So I'll stop video Jeffrey Hoyle: And we'll get started here. So as far as the learning objectives for today. Jeffrey Hoyle: I think first, I want you to understand the limitations of traditional ergonomic practices and the methods that we use and and really some of the challenges in today's workplace and I know many of you guys are already familiar with, with some of those challenges. Jeffrey Hoyle: Secondly, I think really the bulk of the presentation will be to highlight some of these emerging technologies and how they're being used or or can be used in ergonomics. Jeffrey Hoyle: To me, this is a very exciting time in this field of ergonomics that that hopefully we all love Jeffrey Hoyle: With all of these really disruptive technologies really being integrated into the workplace that I feel have have really a great potential Jeffrey Hoyle: I really only have time to kind of wet your whistle with with these, you know, during, during the segment that we have together today. Jeffrey Hoyle: So we'll talk to these at a somewhat of a high level. And lastly, I'll, I'll kind of wrap up with summarizing Jeffrey Hoyle: How these emerging technologies, I, you know, from my perspective as a practitioner are shaping the future direction of ergonomics. Jeffrey Hoyle: And kind of highlight some additional needs and considerations to further advance our knowledge and capabilities moving forward. So hopefully that's the same expectations that you guys have and and that's what I've structured the presentation today on Jeffrey Hoyle: So if we jump right in here. Traditional ergonomics, which I know many of you guys are aware, you know, typically requires trained in somewhat skilled practitioners. So Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, whether that's an internal or external formally trained or Ghana mist or a consultant Jeffrey Hoyle: Or in some cases you may have internally trained resources such as, you know, ergonomic subject matter experts or in many cases, you may have cross functional Jeffrey Hoyle: Ergonomics teams that have been trained and have really developed a unique skill set to Jeffrey Hoyle: Basically go out and recognize evaluate and control ergonomic risks out there in the workplace and there's nothing wrong with those with those capabilities. Right. Jeffrey Hoyle: We train companies, you know, we work with companies to help them, train those types of capabilities, all the time is, it's just not something everyone can innately do without having these train skills to some degree. So, and, as many of you guys know Jeffrey Hoyle: The bulk of the ergonomic assessment tools that are out there, you know. Traditionally. Traditionally, that have been used are their observation based right they they rely somewhat on on pen and paper, you know, the notes that we take Jeffrey Hoyle: And I think what we as humans. See, and measure at the time that we're doing the assessment. Jeffrey Hoyle: And we know that humans are obviously are prone to error and you know in some of the work exposures may not always be accurate at the time that you're going out and doing your observation. Jeffrey Hoyle: So you know I think another limitation of these traditional methods is some level of subjectivity. Right. Some, some level of subjectivity some level of accuracy concern. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, trying to choose the right posture trying to use one of these four stages, maybe that you see here, or a drip Dinah monitor to estimate forces exerted by the workforce. Jeffrey Hoyle: And and even on, on occasion, you know, the observation may may even interrupt the worker right so now Jeffrey Hoyle: Now, don't get me wrong, I think, talking with workers is certainly critical Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, to be able to find out what the problem is. And oftentimes, they have the best solution ideas. So I think that part is still a necessity. And I'm not saying we deviate from that. Jeffrey Hoyle: But, you know, we may have to interrupt the worker to take some of the measurements. Let's say we're trying to do a Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, a NIOSH lifting equation to assess the the lifting related risk, right, we may have to stop the worker and and take measurements of horizontal reach or take measurements of vertical height, etc. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I think you guys all understand that and and then lastly, you know, the traditional approaches are fairly time intensive right so Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, the, the observation of maybe a single job position, you know, we may spend an hour out there on site, you know, talking with him or her. Jeffrey Hoyle: Collecting video right taking measurements and then and then on the back end, you may spend three hours, four hours, five hours to do a you know to do a task analysis, plug it into a screening tool perform any deep dive evaluations. Jeffrey Hoyle: To analyze, you know, the tasks even further and then you may have to do some research and brainstorming up solutions and documentation of report, which is a lot of time. Right, so it's it's somewhat time intensive Jeffrey Hoyle: And moving on here. Here's an example of really a frame by frame video based postural analysis tool that may speed things up a little bit. Jeffrey Hoyle: But still, as a practitioner, you still have to freeze frame the video and then rate various body part classifications. Jeffrey Hoyle: For either the most common or or the worst postures that you're that you observe Jeffrey Hoyle: So again, relatively time intensive and, you know, if you don't get a good camera angle you're, you're basically estimating joint angle postures and Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, you can try to get out of Protractor, to make it more accurate but again there's still some level of subjectivity and this type of analysis. Jeffrey Hoyle: So can we do better. I guess that's the question and and to me, I think we can. And that's the direction that that that we're headed Jeffrey Hoyle: So the other thing I wanted to talk about before we get into these emerging technologies is the other challenges that I think many of us are facing and today's workforce. Jeffrey Hoyle: Are some of the things that you're seeing here in this slide right so unless you're working on a more traditional assembly line or maybe you're in. If you're in the poultry processing industry, perhaps Jeffrey Hoyle: Where it's more Mano tasks right single task types of jobs overall across the workplace. I think job and tasks complexity is certainly increased Jeffrey Hoyle: You know there's there's fewer of these mono task jobs out there many requiring work in in very awkward postures, you know, confined spaces restricted work areas. Jeffrey Hoyle: Greater degrees of mobility required for jobs you know where some of the more traditional ergonomic solutions like your Jeffrey Hoyle: You know your lift table. Your, your scissor lift car. Your, your overhead hoist you know may just may not be very practical. Jeffrey Hoyle: And especially in industries like you're seeing here with construction and you know service and utilities, maintenance operations aeronautics and shipbuilding, just to name a few. Jeffrey Hoyle: So how can we address some of these challenges and issues. Jeffrey Hoyle: So first, basically jumping right in with with exoskeletons the first emerging technology that I just want to highlight Jeffrey Hoyle: And I know you guys heard from Dr. Sterling from University of Michigan. I think that was back in, in June of this year on the human factors of exoskeletons and and I think her talk was more around fit in particular. Jeffrey Hoyle: So I won't get too much into that that realm. But if if you weren't aware, there is actually a standards organization. Jeffrey Hoyle: Called a STM international and they've actually established a subcommittee called F 48. This is the, the Committee on exoskeletons and XO suits. I think it was established back in 2017 Jeffrey Hoyle: But essentially they're tasked with developing consensus standards and they define exoskeletons and I know Dr. Sterling did this prior but but just to highlight it real quickly. Jeffrey Hoyle: Is basically a wearable device that augments enables assists and or enhances motion posture, or physical activity through some mechanical interaction with the body. Jeffrey Hoyle: Right, and then they go on to say XO suits are basically the same thing, but primarily have soft and or elastic structures and there's two, there's primarily two main types of exoskeletons Jeffrey Hoyle: And again, just, just real quickly, there's active and passive. So again, as Dr. Sterling mentioned in a previous webinar an active exoskeleton is powered Jeffrey Hoyle: So it has either one or more actuators or electrical motors, really, whereas a passive X goes exoskeleton does not right. It does not having any external power sources. So it may have some internal springs or or cams with the ability to store energy, but no external power source. Jeffrey Hoyle: And here you can see just a couple of them that that are out there. Jeffrey Hoyle: Come in and commercially available. There's the foetus which is a passive device that's the one that you see there on the, on the left. Jeffrey Hoyle: Which I like to call this is used for more more for industrial applications. And I like to call these more like a mobile tool balancer right attached to the body. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then the one that you see there on the right. The sarcosine guardian. This is actually an active or a powered device for the whole body, and especially used for Jeffrey Hoyle: Manual material handling types of tasks. And I will say I know pre coven Jeffrey Hoyle: I know there were even some airline companies that were piloting even the sarcosine guardian for some of their really heavy maintenance types of tasks like you know changing big heavy tires. I'm not so sure now with with Kofi going on some of that pilot work might be might be delayed. Jeffrey Hoyle: But, you know, to me, and looking at the body of knowledge. I think the Jeffrey Hoyle: And some of the companies that are trying to adopt these I think the jury is really still out there on whether these are considered an engineering control as a portable assistive device. Jeffrey Hoyle: Or whether it you know they're classified as pee pee, you know, personal protective equipment. Jeffrey Hoyle: But I will just say that some of the early adopter companies that are using this type of technology. Jeffrey Hoyle: In manufacturing like your, you know, your Toyota's your BMW is your Boeing, your, your john deere they're essentially treating them as p p right and instituting instituting them for very specific job tasks. Jeffrey Hoyle: And most of these devices, their body parts specific so Jeffrey Hoyle: You know you have some that are assistive to the upper extremity. So the shoulders and the upper arms others to the back, others to the legs. Jeffrey Hoyle: Some have integrated, you know, to balancers that connect to the framework. So just to show you some others that are out there that are commercially available. Jeffrey Hoyle: Here you can see a variety of exoskeletons and this is certainly not an exhaustive list by any means. If you look at the the three that you see there on the left hand side, these are all upper extremity exoskeletons Jeffrey Hoyle: That provide some added support to the shoulders and upper arms. I will say that the market certainly seems to have more companies with these upper extremity support echoes Jeffrey Hoyle: Certainly more again just these three but these three combined with suit x, the one that you see there on the top right corner. Jeffrey Hoyle: They also have one called the shoulder x which is for the upper extremity. So those four. Again, that's just a handful of of some of the more you know well known or research companies in this domain. Jeffrey Hoyle: The one that you see there in the middle that Leyva V2. This is a chest and back support exoskeleton. Jeffrey Hoyle: Will say suit X also has a chest and back support XO called the back x and then you see there the, the new knee cheerless chair 2.0 that's a, that's a German company that makes a Jeffrey Hoyle: Yeah, what they call this chair list chair, which is basically provides a wearable and mobile leg support and then Jeffrey Hoyle: I do know suit X also has a leg x. That does the same thing. And then there's is actually modular so you can connect the shoulder x to the back, x to the leg X and essentially have the whole body x which they call them the max. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then just to point out the one that you see there on the bottom right corner that bio server iron hand. This is a Swedish company, and really the only active Jeffrey Hoyle: The only active exoskeleton that I've that I've shown here on this particular page, it actually has a portable battery unit inside of a backpack. Jeffrey Hoyle: That's a soft exoskeleton for the hand. So it actually has these thin artificial tendons and a force sensor for each finger. So when the sensor actually activates Jeffrey Hoyle: Motors from the Power Pack actually pull the attendance providing additional grip force. So the human doesn't have to grip as hard Jeffrey Hoyle: And by the way, I'm not endorsing any of these companies. It's not like I get any kind of kickbacks. If you guys purchase these things. I'm really just, you know, sharing Jeffrey Hoyle: From an educational standpoint, some of the products that are out there on the market, you know, with this presentation. And there's certainly others. So don't feel again like this is an exhaustive list. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I will just say that our organization with the center being part of NC State University. We have been involved with some short term pilot projects. Jeffrey Hoyle: To test the usability and some of the impacts of these exoskeletons both in you know laboratory biomechanics testing as well as out in the field, doing some field testing, you know, again, for very specific applications with, you know, with some of our clients that we serve. Jeffrey Hoyle: But, but just from a big picture standpoint as far as the body of knowledge, the body of evidence to date that at least I'm aware of some of you guys are Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, maybe more subject matter experts than, than I am. But from what I've seen X. Those are still relatively new technology. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, there, there has been some promising results that has been published on, you know, reduced muscle activity and increase productivity for repetitive and or static overhead type of work. Jeffrey Hoyle: And there's even been some positive results on reduced muscle activity and even spine loading while using some of the back support exoskeletons and actually I think you guys at UC Berkeley have even done some of those studies. Jeffrey Hoyle: But other studies that you know have even shown the opposite. So again, from a big picture standpoint. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, very application specific Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, majority of these studies have had small sample sizes in in some of these studies, you know, have just use students as subjects and not experienced employees. Jeffrey Hoyle: So still, I think there's a need to determine exact applications and really get more data, especially out in the field and we're certainly big believers. If you are an industry where we're always, you know, recommending piloting Jeffrey Hoyle: You know this exoskeleton technology before you do any type of large scale implementation. Jeffrey Hoyle: Other things to consider with with these, you know, can the task Canada essentially be fixed using a maybe a more traditional engineering control, you know, not something attached to, to the to the body, right to the person Jeffrey Hoyle: That's one thing to consider, you know, you have to consider various sizing needs. You know, is it going to fit and accommodate your smallest to your largest workers, right, and everybody in between. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, other things. How much time is that gonna is it gonna take to train your users on how to Don how to doff how to properly adjusted Jeffrey Hoyle: To fit it, that's a big thing. And I know Dr. Sterling unit talk more at length about that topic. How are you going to use it. How is it you know what kind of acceptance is it going to have how breathable is that among your, your users, your population. And I think just human nature is Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, people I think just don't necessarily want to wear something extra. If they don't have to. Right. So, you know, how are our employees going to Jeffrey Hoyle: Going to share how are they going to clean out the going to maintain and store such devices. So, you know, long story short, I'm Jeffrey Hoyle: I'm not trying to discourage you from piloting these I'm still a believer that there's great potential there and we'll continue to see Jeffrey Hoyle: More in various applications and more companies start to adopt this technology, whether it's an industry or medical purposes or military Jeffrey Hoyle: But I'm just making you aware of some of the adoption challenges and that you know I guess from my standpoint, they're not an end all be all solution to everything. At least not yet. Right. Jeffrey Hoyle: And as far as moving on to wearable sensor technology and we could be talking about things as simple as, you know, a Fitbit that measures heart rate and the number of steps that you take across the day Jeffrey Hoyle: To more advanced technology that that measures muscle activity to other wearable sensors that even measure brainwaves this particular device that I'm showing you here called the limo lift. It's a very basic wearable sensor that allows you to set Jeffrey Hoyle: Your target or neutral posture and essentially anytime you deviate from that posture, whether you're in a seated position or a standing position. Jeffrey Hoyle: It provides some haptic feedback. So again, just gentle vibration to the user to remind you, you know, not to slouch, you know, sit up straight or not deviate from that targeted neutral posture that you're trying to Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, optimize your behavior for. So that's a really basic one wearable sensor. Jeffrey Hoyle: Moving on to these these next ones you see three different Jeffrey Hoyle: You know commercially available products here. And I think, while all three of these companies really started out with using wearable sensor technology to really just understand the kinematics. So the postures and movements of employees wearing these sensors. Jeffrey Hoyle: Really since Cobra 19 came in. Jeffrey Hoyle: These guys have have also integrated proximity and location sensors into their technology so they can actually measure and track social distancing Jeffrey Hoyle: And, you know, let's say you know two workers that come in, you know, closer contact than six feet apart, it provides that haptic feedback and tracks those close encounters. Jeffrey Hoyle: And provides those metrics across the course of the day and I know they're also using it for contact tracing as well to see who they've been exposed to between employees that have been wearing these types of sensors. Jeffrey Hoyle: So honestly, I think the pandemics actually help these companies, probably with their sales. Jeffrey Hoyle: And as far as ergonomics goes if we start with the one on the left. The kinetic device. This tracks. Some high risk posture. So, you know, different bending and twisting movements of the back and then again it provides that haptic feedback to the user. Jeffrey Hoyle: The module device that you see there in the middle. It does the same thing, but also classifies some other posture, so it can classified, you know, sitting, standing, walking climbing driving and supposedly can even detect some tripping. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know motions. And then if you look at the one on the far right. The strong arm device, it essentially does what the module device does and then Jeffrey Hoyle: And then even goes another step further to detect some environmental factors like temperature, humidity, air quality barometric pressure and even noise. And obviously, each one of these has its own software and a dashboard for for users as well as managers. Jeffrey Hoyle: And to my knowledge, you know, all are doing some internal case studies with with the clients that they serve. But I've yet to see Jeffrey Hoyle: a longitudinal study conducted by a third party like a, you know, like a university or a or an unbiased source that Jeffrey Hoyle: And that maybe that's underway. I'm just not aware of it. But again, I just haven't seen it published quite yet. So I think that's another potential opportunity coming down the pipeline. Jeffrey Hoyle: And this one I can. It's actually a video. So let me try to start this video and hopefully it shows it might be a little bit choppy on your side and not there's not really audio with this one. So I'll just kind of talk over it, as it plays, but this company called Jeffrey Hoyle: Access me turn off the audio. It provides full body 3D motion tracking technology using these wearable inertial sensors, they can get up to like set 17 wireless sensors either fitted to these body straps that you see here. Jeffrey Hoyle: Or they can be embedded into these full body Lycra suits and it provides some some relatively accurate posture data joint angle data in motion kinematics and and there are studies on the validity of this type of technology that is published. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, to be used both in lab and Field Settings. Jeffrey Hoyle: I will say that that early on these inertial sensor systems where you know we're somewhat subject to some magnetic interference of their signals which obviously impacted some data accuracy. Jeffrey Hoyle: But supposedly this particular company, you know, has minimize this issue through some algorithms that they've developed. So again, it can be used while people are working around metal Jeffrey Hoyle: Which obviously occurs, you know out there in the field, especially with some of the the challenging environments that we that we talked about earlier. Jeffrey Hoyle: But this technology as you kind of saw from the video that you saw here. It can be integrated with other biomechanics and ergonomic software packages, such as the the Siemens jack software that you saw here or Viva lab. Ergo, and certainly even others. Jeffrey Hoyle: So that's, again, that's kind of what you saw in this video clip here briefly. Jeffrey Hoyle: And if I move on to to this particular slide, if we look at the one on on the left hand side first. The some access cricket. Jeffrey Hoyle: Which you can purchase anywhere from from one up to four units per operating device. I think one thing I wanted to highlight about this one that makes this a, you know, somewhat unique is Jeffrey Hoyle: You can measure anything from muscle activity, you know, with the mg to to heart rhythm via you know EKG to even brainwaves you know via eg through the same sensor. Jeffrey Hoyle: And simultaneously, you can measure respiration and it even has some inertial sensors built into it to measure posture and movement information. Jeffrey Hoyle: Now obviously since you can only get four sensors for, you know, per operating unit you know you can't track whole body posture and kinematics today. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then if we look at that one on the right hand side that interacts and portable lab. It's essentially a biomechanics research lab in a box. It's going to how it's described Jeffrey Hoyle: And that can be used both in, you know, a field setting or a laboratory setting and they get, you know, can contain up to 16 channels of Em, Gee, that measures muscle activity. Jeffrey Hoyle: inertial sensors for joint angle and motion tracking where it you know it can display a virtual avatar through the software and you can track three dimensional movements. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then it even comes with the camera based system for 2D marker tracking and then you can sync it with other pressure sensors and for sensors within the software that that that company has Jeffrey Hoyle: So you know again pretty neat type of technology that's that's out there and still in development, even Jeffrey Hoyle: If we move on to the next one here with computer vision, just to really define it for the the audience to start out with. And you know, it's really the field of artificial intelligence that enables Jeffrey Hoyle: Computers and systems to derive really meaningful information from digital images or videos or other visual inputs and then actually follows up and takes action based on that information. Jeffrey Hoyle: Right. So I think the the saying goes, if if artificial intelligence or or AI enables computers to think Jeffrey Hoyle: Computer Vision enables them to see observe, understand, and even react, which is which is kind of exciting, but also maybe a little bit scary. You know, if you think about movies like The, you know, the Terminator or the matrix, right. Jeffrey Hoyle: But as far as applications go there. There are certainly a lot and I think many more that come out every day. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, for example, if you have a newer iPhone, right. It uses computer vision technology in its facial recognition software, you know, to unlock your phone. Jeffrey Hoyle: Right object detection that basically does what it says it does right it detects a specific object within an image or within a video. Jeffrey Hoyle: Many of your newer you know home security systems that can detect the burglar right in the manufacturing type of a setting it can detect Jeffrey Hoyle: Damages to equipment or damages to machinery that might need maintenance or might need servicing and can even trigger a response. So whether that's maybe maybe ordering a new part or notifying a mechanic, it can do that within, within the system. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I'll share a couple other examples as well. Object tracking right this follows or tracks and object. Once it is detected and usually does that through some video feeds. So, you know, this type of technology is being used in Jeffrey Hoyle: In anything from autonomous vehicles that need to track you know objects such as pedestrians and other cars and stop lights, you know, all in motion to try to avoid collisions and try to still obey the traffic laws, but as far as ergonomics goes Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, one emerging technology using this computer vision is really to try to help automate the ergonomic assessment process and I'll share, you know, a few different companies that have some commercially available products. Jeffrey Hoyle: I can get this to transition here. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I'll just, again, not not playing the the audio with this, but I'll just, I'll just start the video so you guys can sort of see it. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I will say all three of these companies that I'm going to, I'm going to share with you are relatively recent startups is this first one code LTS analytics. Jeffrey Hoyle: So, and what I guess what I mean by relatively recent so within the last couple of years. So again, much of this technology and software are still in the development phases. Jeffrey Hoyle: For the most part, from a big picture standpoint. This first one provides some some 3D kinematic metrics like body coordinates and joint angles over time and Jeffrey Hoyle: Since it has that it can actually calculate some velocities and accelerations. But as far as I'm aware, you know, from ergonomic risk analysis standpoint. Jeffrey Hoyle: Again, the latest that I understand is, it's still in the process of trying to integrate Jeffrey Hoyle: You know some of the tools like the ruler analysis, which is a postural based tool for upper extremities. The nice lifting equation and an office based posture analysis tool. So those things are still in process with this one. Jeffrey Hoyle: If I move on to this excuse me with this next one. And again, I'll just, I'll just start the video and talk over it called Connecticut labs. Jeffrey Hoyle: This is yet another company that's a little further down the road in terms of development. Jeffrey Hoyle: And it's using computer vision to really partially automate both ruler and Rebbe analysis tools which are are certainly Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, frequently used tools by are gonna miss and by many industrial practitioners, they're heavily postural based and and it also Jeffrey Hoyle: Partially automate some elements of the nice elliptical lifting equation. Jeffrey Hoyle: So basically you take a, you know, you take a video from your smartphone you upload it into their cloud software and then the software uses computer vision technology and artificial intelligence. Jeffrey Hoyle: To automate the postural components of these assessments to really try to help you streamline that that process. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I guess the last that I heard they're still, you know, working on Liberty Mutual man material handling guidelines to assess Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, lifting and lowering pushing and pulling and caring using that particular tool again, also called the smoke tables and actually I just saw I guess it was this past month. Jeffrey Hoyle: That Liberty Mutual Insurance has now worked with with this particular company to develop an app. Jeffrey Hoyle: That's used by Liberty Mutual risk control personnel to really help them automate their assessment process again using video Jeffrey Hoyle: And this software so it's it's really starting to be adopted, and this was a software company. It started by a Dr. Lee, a professor at a University of Michigan, obviously, with the help of some others to try to develop this type of technology. So pretty exciting. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then this last one called to Miki again very similar to Connecticut labs. These were some, some graduates out of Stanford University. Jeffrey Hoyle: To develop this this type of technology to again partially automate the same tools, thus far ruler Reba, and the nice lifting equation and Jeffrey Hoyle: I will say that that our organization with the ergonomics center. We are currently doing some pilot Jeffrey Hoyle: Beta testing of these these latter two that I shared with you. The Connecticut and the two Miki to do some internal testing of the accuracy and the utility. So I can't speak to that, as of yet. Jeffrey Hoyle: Moving on to to this last one here with computer vision. This is a new one. That one of my colleagues passed on to me, just a few weeks ago, a company called swift motion. Jeffrey Hoyle: Evidently, they've come out with a recently created software used more for office type of ergonomic assessments using either images and or video and supposedly has integrated roulette Reba and Rosa, which again are are all primarily postural based Jeffrey Hoyle: Are weighted towards postural assessment tools. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then moving on to the next emerging technology with virtual reality and augmented reality and you guys probably already know the differences here, but just real quick so VR virtual reality. Jeffrey Hoyle: Really fully immersive a user into an alternative digital world or reality that's totally separate from the real world, whereas augmented reality or AR Jeffrey Hoyle: Is technology that overlays digital information in the real world or displays it on real world elements. Jeffrey Hoyle: So, you know, one example of AR that you may not even have realized is when you go out and you're watching a football game right so that yellow first down marker line that's displayed on the field on your TV screen that's actually a form of AR Jeffrey Hoyle: And then there's there's certainly other companies that are you know that are adopting both of these technologies for certain applications and I'll highlight just a few Jeffrey Hoyle: But before I do that with the particular companies from a broad sense, how is this technology being used and what are some of the benefits Jeffrey Hoyle: From an R amp D side, you know, it's being used for virtual prototyping and and design and, you know, being able to interact in virtual space with products before they're actually manufactured Jeffrey Hoyle: Which can certainly decrease the, you know, design and development time if you can get it right the first time with less risk to the end users. You know, it can certainly save you, they're Jeffrey Hoyle: both time and cost up whoops me jump back here. Sorry about that. And getting trigger happy. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then on the manufacturing side. You know, I think not only can it be used to optimize like the the assembly steps. Jeffrey Hoyle: From a product design standpoint. It can also be used to design the layout and the equipment on the production floor right so that results in less risk to employees, you can actually simulate the job tasks in a virtual environment versus a real world environment. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know where somebody may get injured and that applies both in manufacturing, as well as on the service side. Jeffrey Hoyle: It can also be used to display manufacturing or servicing steps and procedures visually and even display that on an object that you're working on. Jeffrey Hoyle: To save time and money. So instead of, maybe, you know, skimming through you know pages and pages of your work instruction document, you can actually have it displayed on the unit that you're working on. To show you what's the next step in the process visually. Jeffrey Hoyle: In obviously you know cycle time and the time to service that can be reduced, which which all of these obviously result and money saved and more profit earned Jeffrey Hoyle: So this next one actually does have some audio. This is Jeffrey Hoyle: This is a video that that Lockheed Martin has put out where they have this lab that integrate some of these technologies that we've been talking about that I felt like was was kind of impressive. So I thought it'd be best just to Jeffrey Hoyle: To hear it from those internal folks, rather than rather than just me trying to talk over it, so I'm going to try to play the audio with this one. Hopefully it works on your side. The chills absolutely amazing this capability here is really used across the enterprise, we can bring an engineer or technician into the lab and we can put on a head mounted display like the Oculus Rift. When they get in our motion capture system literally sort of immersed in the virtual world almost a holodeck, per se. You can do virtual walk downs with the product. And when you can see it in 3D, as opposed to seeing and drawing you catch things much faster. And much more effective way to scale to one to one to they're seeing the lifelike size of the geometry. They can look for access and clearance issues. So, it serves as a really great way to validate what we're going to do on the production floor before we actually do it. One of the things that's really exciting. Is there really two technologies here in the chill. One is the cave where you can actually stand Inside in front of top bottom anywhere around a real sized objects and manipulate that object in 3D space, you can look for interferences. You can look for all kinds of problems with the vehicle. And then in the motion capture area, we can actually become an avatar step into the factory floor, if you will. Run the procedures and the processes. Look for interferences. But as an avatar in a virtual world and there was a lot of collaboration that was going on between Space Systems company. And aeronautics who use it extensively through building the F 35 and F 22 aircraft. So a lot of collaboration. A lot of communication, back and forth. And I think we brought the best set of capabilities and the best tools here in the chill and today it's being used across All the enterprise Space Systems company making every program better and easier to build all of these things blowing through the digital tapestry across many industries stats are having a profound impact and we at Lockheed Martin, on the very leading Jeffrey Hoyle: So again, you know, certainly companies are starting to use this type of technology and certainly universities are Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, are expanding our knowledge in the research related to this technology, you know, across multiple universities. So I don't think that we're seeing the end of this, I think they were just in the infancy stages from from my standpoint. Jeffrey Hoyle: So, so here just highlighting a couple of other companies you know john deere one that you see there on the, on the left is another company using VR to optimize design of their tractors. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, to help them with the steps in the build or the manufacturing processes to check tooling. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, check fasteners that are being used the clearances in a virtual environment before it goes into production. You know, they can tweak the design and make sure that Jeffrey Hoyle: That that those out there on the manufacturing floor are accommodated and can do it with ease and the use of the proper tools. Jeffrey Hoyle: The one that you see there on the right there. Now this is a European VR tech company that creates Jeffrey Hoyle: Some of these VR tools used to help you do everything from optimize your workstation by displaying reach zones and letting you move things around in a virtual space to allow you to Jeffrey Hoyle: Virtually walk through the assembly steps all the way to laying out your equipment and workstations in the production floor so you can plan an optimal app optimized before even having the the tangible elements. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then, just lastly this. This is a particular article that highlights how how augmented reality is being used in aeronautics and space exploration industry is on the factory floor. Jeffrey Hoyle: To help train their technicians optimize workflows again show visual work instructions using this AR technology and there's a link to this article here and you can see some pretty impressive results were at least reported in this in this article. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then here's just one more example of how it's being used in construction tasks to visualize tasks, try to save time, both on the training end as well as on the the field work and Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, even in the construction industry. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then lastly, with this this last I guess it emerging technology topic that we're going to talk about with advanced analytics. Jeffrey Hoyle: Just to define it real quick. These are methods of analyzing data using sophisticated tools and computational power. I think that's the key word here. Jeffrey Hoyle: To understand trends, patterns and performance metrics. So we're, we're talking about things like data mining machine learning pattern matching Jeffrey Hoyle: correlation analysis forecasting, just to name a few. But the key word is using computational power. Jeffrey Hoyle: Right, and then predictive analytics is really a subdivision of advanced analytics that focuses on identification of future events or future outcomes and probabilities. So just kind of setting the stage with some of those definitions and in terms of how this technology is being used. Jeffrey Hoyle: And it's some of the benefits. It's really being used in in sales forecasting to try to predict trends in purchasing or the features that users like Jeffrey Hoyle: But more specifically, I think with ergonomics is it's being used on the R amp D side of products. So if you're able to collect data on product performance. Jeffrey Hoyle: Or product failures or customer service complaints or even maintenance requests. You know those types of issues can be resolved on the R amp D side. Jeffrey Hoyle: Right. And then in looking at the if you look at those last two bullets in that top section with manufacturing and maintenance or service this tech can be used to analyze your injury data, your workers compensation data, right, your, your near miss data. So if you Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, if you perform behavioral observations which many companies. I know. Do you know those observations. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, could be used in an effort to make better predictions on what areas that you focus on what root causes of the problems are causing these maybe the the comp injury. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, workers comp injuries. The, the risks that are involved with those injuries and even go the next step and give you some actionable. Jeffrey Hoyle: insights into how to mitigate those risks or those near misses are those behavioral issues. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I think the same thing applies with other business issues like your, you know, your bottleneck areas, your quality issues. Jeffrey Hoyle: That may require rework or extra maintenance and I think we can all agree that obviously extra maintenance or extra we rework that that leads to ergonomic risks. So, you know, I think ultimately this is a tool that can Jeffrey Hoyle: That can tie a lot of these other technologies together with trying to make sense of the data. Jeffrey Hoyle: Whether it's coming from wearable sensors or come from computer vision to make better decision making to help you prioritize that will lead to improved employee well being less injuries greater efficiencies and even higher customer satisfaction. Jeffrey Hoyle: So just a couple of real quickly. I know I'm starting to run out of time here. I want to leave some some time for questions. But just to highlight a couple of examples of how Jeffrey Hoyle: Companies are using advanced data analytics. The, the one that you see there on the left. I've included some links to two articles here. Jeffrey Hoyle: The one you see on the left is again in the aeronautics industry where they're using data analytics, combined with 3D imaging technology. Jeffrey Hoyle: To really streamline the the diagnostics and the maintenance processes for its for it's f 35 and F 22 fighter planes, all within a single system and that system technicians can interact with it. Jeffrey Hoyle: The purchasing part is is embedded into that same system to try to optimize, you know, that process. So you know if they can predict what part is going to fail first through some of these predictive analytics. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know that timeline is better understood that the automation of that ordering process can happen. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, automation of the service request is embedded so that helps minimize the you know the downtime of the aircraft. Jeffrey Hoyle: And all that information can be seen and sent you know upstream to really improve future designs. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then the one that you see there on the right. This is a link to an article that discusses some essential technologies for construction risk management. Jeffrey Hoyle: Talks about mobile technology wearables, but it also talks about the use of AI and machine learning, which is obviously part of data analytics that we're talking about here. And there's really a great five minute video at the link that you see here that describes how many of these Jeffrey Hoyle: Technologies that we're talking about today can be integrated together with the use of data analytics and machine learning to make sense of this data to again. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know better identify and predict job site risks streamline the work tasks, try to improve work worker safety. Jeffrey Hoyle: And and even try to better meet some of the scheduling deadlines, which I think we all know and agree that you know that's that's historically has been an issue within the construction industry as a whole. Jeffrey Hoyle: And I'm a Mac. I can Jeffrey Hoyle: I can actually send you guys some links. I've got a one pager that I worked up that has a number of articles and hyperlinks that maybe I can get with Jeffrey Hoyle: The UC Berkeley folks to post that with this webinar but just kind of trying to wrap up here with the future direction of the field. Jeffrey Hoyle: In terms of the trends that I see now in envision for the future, especially related to these disruptive or emerging technologies from a practitioners perspective. Jeffrey Hoyle: Again, you know, being out in the field, working with a variety of companies trying to keep our fingers on the pulse with Jeffrey Hoyle: You know with what's out there and the competition and trying to stay current with latest and greatest. You know, these, these trends emerge. Right. So just in recapping. You know, I think we'll continue to see an increase in wearables from an XO or assistive technology standpoint. Jeffrey Hoyle: And especially in some of these challenging types of industries, whether its construction or Jeffrey Hoyle: You know service and utilities, where, you know, traditional ergo solutions may not be feasible. Jeffrey Hoyle: I think we'll continue to see automation of ergonomic assessments with real time feedback, whether that's using some wearable sensors or using computer vision and 3D imaging Jeffrey Hoyle: I think we'll continue to see an increased use of VR and AR technology on the design side being used for training at really all levels. Jeffrey Hoyle: As well as being integrated within manufacturing to assess and try to control ergonomic risks and even performance issues and the same really with with data analytics right to make more informed decisions based on data and trying to automate some of those decisions. Jeffrey Hoyle: And the last one I guess that we're really didn't talk about that. I just threw in here as kind of food for thought is Jeffrey Hoyle: Collaborative robots. Right. I think this is another emerging tech where, you know, employers are going to be working side by side with a robot to get jobs done so. Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, I think, as practitioners, we need to stay current and get involved with these technologies to keep people safe to optimize our business processes for the company and and the folks that you guys lead and I know many of you work for great companies in and of yourself so Jeffrey Hoyle: I think with each one of these technologies. Again, you know, we, as practitioners within Providence, you know, within private industry, like many of you are Jeffrey Hoyle: With the help of academia and even with the help of government. You know, I think we have to get involved with the needs to advance advance us forward. Jeffrey Hoyle: So I think there's still a need for for, you know, additional validation testing, you know, where are these expose, where can they be applied. What are they good for, and how can we standardize so that we can learn across multiple studies and multiple implementations of these wearables Jeffrey Hoyle: With automation, you know, automated of ergonomic assessments. I think will will start to see some newer Jeffrey Hoyle: Ergonomic risk models being developed that that use these types of, you know, sensor technology, whether it's wearable sensors or computer vision. Jeffrey Hoyle: And trying to create more cumulative multifactorial exposures, not just looking at the the physical right the biomechanical factors, but also integrating personal or individual factors into the risk model as well as social and psychosocial factors which we all know Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, all three of these things, the interaction of those three impact exposure and impact risk to to employees. So I think we'll see further development in those newer risk models. Jeffrey Hoyle: And then I think with with really the last three topics I think across the board. I think there's still a need for development. Jeffrey Hoyle: Better understanding the applications for those three those latter three emerging techs again validation of where they're useful and maybe where they're not Jeffrey Hoyle: Standardization and then obviously with, you know, with data analytics and even computer vision. You know, I think there's still some some work that needs to be done around how do you, how do you protect that data, right, from a security standpoint. Jeffrey Hoyle: And how can we make this more accessible and in cheaper where you know more and more companies can can adopt it. Jeffrey Hoyle: So that's from a big picture standpoint, where I kind of see the, the future of us going. And this is that one pager that talked about which so each one of these are hyperlinks and Jeffrey Hoyle: And maybe I can provide this to to UC Berkeley. That's posting this and they can they can put this on the the website. All these are hyperlinks that will lead you to finding out more information. So hopefully that will be helpful for you. Jeffrey Hoyle: And that's really all I have. So hopefully I gave you Jeffrey Hoyle: Some tidbits of information that that can be useful for you, but I'll kind of open things up for for a little bit of Q AMP a, I guess we don't have a ton of time, but it's about, I guess I have about six minutes and told the top of the hour. Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you so much for such an engaging and interesting presentation. Michelle | COEH CE: And some of the questions we have just to kind of let everyone know on this presentation has been recorded and we will be putting it online, you'll be able to find it on that main page where you registered on our website. In addition to all the links that were mentioned and Michelle | COEH CE: Also available on our YouTube page, which also has all the links to previously recorded webinars and so you guys will get a link to that in your email as someone who attended today. Michelle | COEH CE: Um, so we do have lots of great questions that have come through here. We'll do our best to get to as many as we can. Michelle | COEH CE: And one of the first questions that we have someone was wondering about which companies, you might know that embed distance tracking in their products they understand it could be used for coven but it may also be useful for preventing struck by incidences on busy construction sites. Jeffrey Hoyle: In in in by distance. I'm assuming you're talking about distance between other workers and and I guess those three that I did share with you guys that have integrated proximity sensors into their technology. So that was Jeffrey Hoyle: That was kinetic strong arm and module those three that I talked about earlier. And I guess I can jump to that slide. So as long as the employees are wearing those proximity sensors. It is my understanding me see if I can jump back to that slide. It's way further up here. Jeffrey Hoyle: As long as the employer employees are wearing those wearing their, their technology. It does have that capability least that I'm aware of. So these three Jeffrey Hoyle: And again, there you know there may be others that are out there besides just these three, but these are three that I'm aware of. Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you. Um, do you know any health tech companies that are using facial recognition. Jeffrey Hoyle: Health tech companies. Jeffrey Hoyle: I'll be honest with you. Jeffrey Hoyle: I guess the, the, the, the clients that we, that we have served historically haven't fallen into that field. So I, I really can't intelligently. Jeffrey Hoyle: Answer that question. I'm just not aware. I'm sure there are some that are using that type of technology. I'm just I can't. I couldn't speak to it from personal experience. Michelle | COEH CE: As a practitioner yourself. Do you see on site ergonomic services functioning in tandem or integrating with these types of technologies. Is there a new niche that needs or should be filled by practitioners Jeffrey Hoyle: Yeah, I think that's a, that's a great question. I guess I see it as Jeffrey Hoyle: Being integrated with with practitioners, I think we all probably would agree that there is certainly room for improvement in terms of the analysis, you know, the traditional analysis that we kind of talked about previously just in the time that it takes Jeffrey Hoyle: So if we can use some of this newer technology to streamline that process so that we can spend more time on the solution side. Jeffrey Hoyle: And validation of the solution using these technologies, which, you know, to me, I think we can use this technology to to also get, get some better data that we can present to you know senior leadership or executive leadership those folks that control the purse strings. Jeffrey Hoyle: To buy some of the interventions that we're trying to implement and we can leverage this technology to do that. I guess I still see Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, the, the, the need for that integration. So I don't think that this is going to completely phase out Jeffrey Hoyle: Ergonomic practitioners out there in the workplace. I think it's just going to be another tool that we can use to expedite some parts of our process that so that we can get more done and Jeffrey Hoyle: And spend more time on the solution side of the spectrum versus the paralysis by analysis approach. Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you. Michelle | COEH CE: Okay, thank you. I see. This was kind of a continuation on that question. Someone was asking about if there are any sort of governing bodies that oversee Michelle | COEH CE: The data collections specifically related to like exoskeletons and assistive technology and kind of assemble a body peer reviewed literature to validate the technology. Jeffrey Hoyle: That's a, that's another great question. So on the again mentioning, you know, going back to the Jeffrey Hoyle: The, the standard. The standard organization for exoskeletons and trying to collectively put together the body of knowledge and standardized across exoskeletons that's the STM international that subcommittee. Jeffrey Hoyle: I'll be honest with you, I'm not aware of a, you know, another standards organization. Jeffrey Hoyle: That oversees or tries to standardize data analytics, but there may be one. I'm just again. Jeffrey Hoyle: I'm not, I guess I wouldn't claim to be a subject matter expert on that that niche. So there may be some others on the call that Jeffrey Hoyle: That could probably provide an answer, better than I can. But I'm not aware of a governing body to try to standardize the protection of data and the data analytic side. I know. Jeffrey Hoyle: Being part of the university. Anytime we're collecting data if it involves human subjects we have to go through a, you know, our institutional review board to make sure we're protecting the rights of Jeffrey Hoyle: The human subjects that are part of that study. And you know, that's a relatively lengthy process and we have to show a bunch of, you know, data security protocols that we're following to make sure that data is protected. Jeffrey Hoyle: But that's just from, you know, an on the university side of the house. Michelle | COEH CE: Thank you so much. And thank you again to everybody who's tuning in today. We have so many wonderful questions. Michelle | COEH CE: And we do have time for one more. And just as a reminder, I'm going to be posting this on recording, it'll be available on our website where you register, including all of the links that were referenced during the presentation. Michelle | COEH CE: And so our final question for today on some level was in regards to exoskeletons they notice it's a challenge to fit these equipments to workers. Michelle | COEH CE: Who may have varying anthropometric measures and that could even lead to more musculoskeletal disorders. Do you have any recommendations are you able to point to any findings about these types of issues in the field. Jeffrey Hoyle: I can speak I guess from, from my experience with with doing some of the field testing and actually trying on some of these exoskeletons whether that's Jeffrey Hoyle: With some of the clients that we serve, or being able to do it at at some of the trade shows that I attended to try to stay current the bulk of them are Jeffrey Hoyle: Especially the ones that I shared with you. They are adjustable in and they did incorporate some anthropometric data into the development of them to try to accommodate Jeffrey Hoyle: The range, you know, the, the, the range of users that they're trying to design these things, for there are some others that have different sizes. So you may have to purchase like a, you know, a small vest or a medium sized vest or large best Jeffrey Hoyle: But, but a bulk of them are actually adjustable to to try to accommodate you know the majority of the the range of users. Jeffrey Hoyle: There, there have been some studies that have been done that have been published more around the the fit of exoskeletons and Jeffrey Hoyle: You know, we could probably pull together some references for those that are interested, I know that was something that Dr. Sterling. If you didn't go if you didn't attend that webinar. I think that was the June webinar that she did. Jeffrey Hoyle: I know she talked it at somewhat at length about the fit of exoskeleton. So that might be another good starting point to find out additional information. Michelle | COEH CE: Excellent. Well, thank you so much for your time today and thank you to our attendees for remaining engaged this entire time. Michelle | COEH CE: The Education Research Center edgy ergonomics webinar series is the third Wednesday of each month. Michelle | COEH CE: And the series is in addition to our ears. The Industrial Hygiene webinar series, which takes place. The second Tuesday of each month. Michelle | COEH CE: Our next ergonomics webinar is going to be on Wednesday, December 16 with Dr. David do frayed indoctrinate the key. Michelle | COEH CE: On fatigue in the workplace effects of health and performance measurement considerations and that's in partnership with University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston and University of Iowa. Michelle | COEH CE: You can be sure to check out our website for more information and to register for upcoming events at CH berkeley.edu backslash about see. Thank you all so much again for joining us today. Thank you so much. Jeffrey Hoyle: My pleasure. Thank you guys for the opportunity. Michelle | COEH CE: Have a great rest of the week, everyone. Bye bye. 