 Google now can track your speed The company confirmed it’s rolling out the ability for Google Maps users to see speed limits, speed cameras and mobile speed cameras in more than 40 countries worldwide an expansion of its earlier launch of these features. Google had not been quick to integrate Waze's best features into its own Google Maps app, following its 2013 acquisition of the popular navigation app. Instead, it seems to prefer using Google Maps as a broader platform for helping people find places including most importantly nearby businesses and Google advertisers. Tibbits are colorful preprogrammed modules for building IOT devices Tibbits look like building blocks, but each one is a module or a connector that makes it easier to build connected devices and systems. The heart of the Red Dot Award winning Tibbo Project System is the Tibbo Project PCB for which the company used bright colors to make its modules stand out from other hardware, which includes a CPU, memory and Ethernet port. Tibbo also offers an online configuration that lets you preview, your device to see if it will work the way you want, before you begin building and its own programming languages that is Tibbo BASIC and Tibbo C and the app development platform. Google Maps offers a new way to find a menu’s popular dishes The new “popular dishes” feature uses artificial intelligence to match up photos, reviews, and ratings to help hungry diners build a clearer picture about an eatery’s offerings before they visit or while they’re at the table trying to make a decision. To make use of the feature, search for a restaurant you’re interested in, and in the Overview tab scroll down until you see the Popular Dishes section populated with a range of photos. A Show More button will take you to additional menu items that have received good reviews from other diners. As it’s powered by A.I., the accuracy of the feature will improve over time as more people add content to Maps. Of course, this also means that not all restaurants will yet have enough information for Maps to work out the most popular dishes, but with everyone’s participation, that’s certain to change over time. To further improve the accuracy of Maps’ suggestions, Google requests that you add the name of the dish to a photo when you upload it. 