 Welcome to the first webinar in SAMHSA's quarterly Health IT webinar series. The topic of today's webinar, which is being co-hosted by SAMHSA and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information technology, or ONC, is Integrating Behavioral Health into Health Information Exchanges. I'm Gordon Campbell and I will be moderating today's meeting and introducing our first set of speakers. Before we begin there are a few housekeeping items for today's webinar. This webinar is being recorded and will be made available on SAMHSA's YouTube channel in the near future. In addition, a PDF version of the slide deck will be sent to attendees following the webinar. All lines are currently muted, if you have questions for the presenters, please type them into the questions box in the GoToWebinar panel on the right-hand side of your screen. At the end of the presentation, we will have a Q&A session to answer questions that have been submitted throughout the presentation. The objectives for today's meetings are to learn about the benefits of integrating behavioral health data into HIEs Explain how DS4P and related efforts help facilitate secure data sharing; and to share two state-based approaches to behavioral health data integration. Now I would like to introduce our three presenters from SAMHSA and ONC. We have Mister Kenneth Salyards, who is a Information Management Specialist within the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment at SAMHSA; Laura Rosas who is Division Director of Interoperable Health IT Adoption at ONC; and Larry Jessup, who is Program Director of Health Information Exchange Programs at ONC. So at this time, I would like to hand the floor over to Ken Salyards. Thanks, Gordon. Hello everyone! Of course there is an ongoing need for privacy and confidentiality, when it comes to behavioral health data. Here just two examples of how behavioral health information can be used by other parts of the criminal justice and health systems. to create problems for people that are seeking behavioral health treatment. A mother in recovery had her two month old infant removed from her custody after a hospital reported that she had legally prescribed methadone in her system. A young man in recovery was refused work reinstatement despite successful treatment for alcoholism and his physician's clearance. So it is important that individual maintains the right to choose whether or not to share their sensitive health data with care providers. However it is also important that care providers have access to all of a client's data if the client consents to sharing it. Using electronic health information exchange, can facilitate care coordinations and improve patient experiences and treatment outcomes. You can see there that survey data shows many HIEs are in early stages of integrating behavioral health data into HIEs but only 25% of HIE respondents electronically share data subject to 42 CFR Part 2. And over 50% respondents reported capacity to handle consent management electronically. We will take a look at how this can be accommodated given current technology. Folks on the call may be familiar with this term Data Segmentation for Privacy or DS4P. the answer is a broad initiative sponsored by SAMHSA and ONC to improve ability to securely improve sensitive health information, specifically substance abuse patient records. Phase One lasted from about 2011 to 2014 and the DS4P project demonstrated how standards can support current privacy policies to share sensitive health information across organizations. Developed standards to enable sensitive electronic health information to be shared with authorized users. One of the key areas of ONC and SAMHSA collaboration is around enabling HIEs to share behavioral health information. That collaboration started with the standards and interoperabilty framework, where the DS4P, Data Segmentation for Privacy Project, was born and our ongoing collaboration to integrate behavioral health information across the continuum of care, the Office of the National Coordinator released a grant that some of which focused on behavioral health integration. SAMHSA and ONC have participated in the HIMSS Interoperability Showcase and we will, once again, coming up this HIMSS in February and March and ONC is creating a behavioral health road map with SAMHSA input. ONC provided oversight in the development of Consent2Share. Consent2Share is an open source application for consent management and data segmentation developed using data segmentation for privacy implementation guide. It allows you to integrate with Electronic Health Records and Health Information Exchange systems via interoperability standards. It allows clients to control which information they share and with which provider. It is compliant with privacy and confidentiality regulations including part 2. Currently, CQS is in production in an HIE for Prince George's County. That environment allows patients to specify their data sharing options and the HIE enforces those consent directives when information is requested by an HID. Now I would like to turn the presentation over to Laura Rosas from ONC. Thanks so much, Ken, and thank your everybody for joining us again. after the bit of mishap last time we're really happy that you all came back. We are really excited about what we have to provide in terms of information. Interoperable health IT adoption obviously the goal is to have interoperability so that information can be exchanged across the ecosystem. The goals include expanding access to health information exchange through RECs, the Advance Interoperable (and these are our programs) The Regional Extension Center Program, the Advance Interoperable Health Information Exchange program and we have a Community Interoperability and Health Information Exchange Program. The importance of efforts is to integrate behavioral health information into health information exchange is obviously really critical. Consent2Share which you've just seen and overview of is one way of achieving that integration and so we are happy today to talk about some of the programs that we have that are also attempting to do this. So I'd like to introduce Larry Jessup who is the Program Director for the Advance Interoperable Health Information Exchange program. Larry, take it away. Great, thanks Laura. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you all for joining the call today. I am the Program Director for Health Information Exchange programs here at ONC in our Office of Programs and Engagement. In a moment I will be introducing our team from Colorado, but I wanted to first give a brief overview of the program to which they were selected so that you all have some type of context of the other behavioral health efforts that are taking place across the country over the next two years. Just a quick note for those of you on the call who are not aware, we also have a second HIE cooperative agreement program here at ONC The Community Interoperability and HIE program which is led by my colleague Rich Lavey, which is doing equally important work with behavioral health at the community level. Just a quick background here for the Advance Interoperable HIE program of which Colorado is an awardee. our goal from the onset of this program was to really pick up where the previous state HIE cooperative agreement program had left off. While we continue to operate under the same legislative intent, our awardees are also providing technical assistance and workflow redesign support to help increase adoption, exchange and interoperability. Total funding available for this program is 29.6 million dollars. These are re-obligated funds, this is not new funding. We received 37 applications. Twelve awards were made so this was a very competitive process. The period of performance is two years. We began this program in July of this year. We are well underway. This is just a quick snapshot of all of the awardees. The awardees listed here represent all ten HHIS regions. Ten of the twelve are from states that are also state innovation model awardees. I have an asterisk here for the six organizations that are focused on behavioral health. This gives you a general idea of where efforts are occurring across the entire country. Listed here are all of the collective target populations for all twelve awardees. In addition for what I have bolded for behavioral health you can see here that this list pretty much covers clinical and non-clinical providers across the entire continuum. One of the things we really tried to do was to make sure that we focus on those target populations that were previously were not incentivised for Health IT or whom have historically lacked resources and support to move forward. We wanted to ensure that our program had a broad enough reach to include those who really needed help in addition to those who may be more advanced with their health IT adoption and use. We have three main program goals which we have termed as milestones. As you can see here milestones one and two should look pretty familiar. These are aligned with our near-term 2015 to 2017 goals of interoperability roadmap. Milestone one is focused on working with the awardees target population to increase adoption of critical health IT infrastructure and the adoption of interoperable health information technology tools and services. Milestone 2 is focused on just increasing the flow of information. Making sure that we are getting the information moving in a secure and interoperable manner. This is, of course focused on the sending and receiving of health information. Milestone 3 is working with the target populations to incorporate health information from external sources regardless of vendor, geographic or organizational boundaries. into daily clinical and non-clinical workflows and interactions with patients. The priorities here are really working on just laying the foundation for the integration of health information that the provider and staff deem as relevant and useful for patient care. Before I conclude and turn it over to the Colorado team I just want to take another moment to recognize the community interoperability and HIE program since I know many of these awardees are attending this call. As you see here of their ten awardees, six are focused on the behavioral health population as well. We are again excited about their work as well and look forward to highlighting all of their efforts in the near future. If you all have any questions at all or would like any additional information regarding either of the HIE programs discussed today feel free to contact anyone on this slide we will be more than happy to speak with you and answer any questions at all that you might have. I am very, very proud to introduce our team from CORHIO which is one of two HIE in Colorado and their partner HIE in the western slope of Colorado the Quality Health Network. They will be discussing some of their current and future services around behavioral health integration. They definitely recognize the importance of supporting the behavioral health population. We are, of course, looking forward to them continuing to share their best practices and lessons learned over the next year and a half. Special thanks to Toria Thompson who is the Behavioral Health Information Exchange Coordinator for CORHIO, Kate Horle who is the Vice President and Privacy Officer for CORHIO, and last, but not least, Jane Foster who is the Clinical Director at QHN. Again, thank you to everyone for joining the call today. Kate I will turn it over to you. Hi everyone, thanks so much for joining us again. We appreciate you coming back for round two. I'm Kate Horle. I'm the Vice President of External Affairs and Operations for CORHIO and also their Privacy Officer. We're very excited today to talk to you about Whole Person Health and why we believe that integrating behavioral health into traditional medical care in Colorado is so critical. Quickly about Colorado -- our total population is just over 5 million. Most of whom live in urban communities. Colorado is a very large state, as many of you are aware and our rural communities are far and wide in terms of population. We have a number of identified frontier counties. Those are counties where there is less than one person per six square miles. We have a strong Latino population of just over a million and that is our fastest growing demographic in Colorado. Of course we are geographically diverse. The highest point in the Rocky Mountains is Mount Elbert, which is over in QHN's territory. We also invented the cheeseburger so in case you thought you did that I assure you it was us. We're the only state, actually the only place in the world that actually said no to the Olympics but we did say yes to marijuana. Just quickly about CORHIO, you can see here that we are a health information exchange based in Colorado. We cover the heart range, eastern plains and southwestern portions of the state Our goal today that we are focused on is making sure that 85% of providers in Colorado that we service are meaningful users are EHRs and health information technology. About QHN, they are a health information exchange based on the western slope of Colorado in Grand Junction. They cover 13 counties. in that Western part of the state. They too are a non-for-profit HIE very much focused on creating evidence based medicine and health information exchange between hospitals and other partners. Here is a window of our service area. I want to talk briefly about how Colorado got to a place where we believe integrating behavioral health and physical health was critical to furthering the triple aim (???) in our state. There are a couple of things to keep in mind when you're doing this work. The first and foremost for us was that leadership really matters. We had our previous governor, previous to the one we currently have, was Governor Bill Ritter, Jr. Both he and his wife Jeannie were deeply focused on behavioral health. They understood why it was important. They believed strongly in creating community that is integrated and welcomes behavioral health clients, patients and providers. That leadership has really made a difference in the way that Colorado treats behavioral health. At that same time that that was happening in the Governor's office, our state Medicaid agency was beginning to recognize that there were significant co-morbidities that were associated with behavioral health conditions. They were seeing lots of clients, for instance, that had both diabetes and depression or bipolar disorder and other physical conditions like hypertension. They wanted to ensure that they were treating not just the physical conditions but the behavioral health conditions that were associated with them because particularly the Medicaid population, but across every population behavioral health co-morbidities can dramatically decrease the rate of success in curing or treating other kinds of physical health issues. On top of that, in Colorado, we have seen significant mental health research and development over the last decade. That's true not just in our state, but across the nation. There have been a number of really informative studies that have come out showing why behavioral health treatment really matters and how it can -- how it matters to physical health, particularly chronic disease physical health successful treatment. Of course Colorado has had its share of violence, although our gun deaths per capita are below the national median we have had some very high profile shootings, notably Columbine, the Aurora theater shooting and the abortion treatment shooting in the Rocky Mountains. That level of profile has really elevated the consciousness around behavioral health and has enabled many physical health providers to begin to look at behavioral health as a place that they needed to think about integrating into their workforce. I think it's also important to keep in mind that there are clinical guidelines in the ACA that really encourage and direct folks who are physical health providers to consider behavioral health and to rise to the surface of understanding the social determinants of health and how those things like transportation, education and how they can really impact, long term, both physical and behavioral health issues. In Colorado we are fortunate enough to be participating in four different projects. They all have behavioral health opportunities in them. Testing Experience and Functional Tools is a project where PHR Personal Health Records will be provided to long term service support members of our Medicaid community, about two hundred of them over the next two years. That pilot project will enable us to see how folks are able to integrate both their behavioral health and physical health into a personal health record that is accessible by, if there is any case manager as well as their own personal care givers. Colorado is a state innovation model grant and a big part of the work we'll be doing there is integrating either by co-locating or, technically, connecting behavioral health practices and physical health practices. As Larry mentioned we are the lucky recipients of the Advance Interoperability Grant. That work is where we'll talk some more about that work today, but we are running a pilot project both with ??? and ??? to test two different models for integrating concerns ??? into behavioral health project so that we can pull behavioral health data into the HIE. Just for those of you who are interested, when those pilots are completed we will be writing a white paper to publish around how those two projects went how patients felt about them, how providers felt about them and how well they worked in terms of being able to create the kind of granular concerns that we need to have to share behavioral health data within the confines of 42 CFR part 2 and under the HIPAA sharing guidelines that Colorado legally subscribes to. Last but not least, Colorado has just received a Department of Justice planning grant that will enable us to do some behavioral health HIE integration work with the state. So with that, I'm really excited to introduce you to our Behavioral Health Specialist and Information Exchange Coordinator Toria Thompson Thanks Kate. Hi everybody. I'm delighted to be able to speak to you a bit about what CORHIO's path has been. I'm going to talk, fairly quickly, through these first few slides because this report, that's highlighted on this slide is one that you can download directly from our web site to get more detail. Mostly, what I want to focus on, in my part of the presentation, is a lot of the ground work that was done over five plus years in order to get us to where we are today. I'm sure those of you out there that are involved in health information exchange realized there is a tremendous amount of pre-work that you need to do in order to get the landscape ready for the actuality of doing exchange. This report is one that we authored between 2010 and 2012 and it included a number of on-site meetings at various communities across the state. What we did was we interviewed providers, we interviewed consumers of behavioral health and asked them about their stories, either where there was collaboration between primary care and behavioral health, or where that didn't go so well. On the left side you'll see some anecdotes about where consumers/ patients told us that things went well because there was coordination. On the right side I just want to highlight, that some times it doesn't go so well. In this case, there was a person whose primary care doc became aware of some anxiety symptoms that she had and unfortunately when she went to that provider with heart palpitations he dismissed it as part of her anxiety symptoms. She ended up being admitted to the hospital that evening (she's fine) but still we have to also recognize that there will be some tremendous education opportunities in order to be able to effectively use the information once it has been exchanged. A few graphs that came from the report that I think are worth looking at... again from we surveyed patients, providers, community members and so on and asked, "Should information be shared? Should this behavioral health information be shared? If so, in what circumstances?" A large number of people felt that at least in an emergency this information should be available. In primary care and as well in personal health records. This really supports the work that we're doing now with that test grants for getting PHRs in. You'll see later when I describe what our proof of concept or pilot is that getting that data in the hands of primary care and in emergencies is a big part of that. We also asked if people thought there would be negative consequences if this behavioral health data was not included. Many people either strongly agreed or agreed. It is important also though on the right hand side to note there are folks that strongly disagree. We definitely have consumers out there, you can see that the majority of those were consumers that were feeling like they don't want their behavioral health data in there, but again the majority that we spoke with when we did this report really believed they would be benefited by having that data. In this report, there were a number of recommended follow ups. Back in 2012, the first four were really focused on laying that framework and laying the ground work. The final one was actually putting the technology in place and its interesting that here we are -- four years later beginning that work. Really, 1 through 4 I can't emphasize enough how important it is to lay the ground work. This is how we laid the ground work, or at least some of the pieces. I think one foundational element was this role that I'm filling for CORHIO. That is a role that is very specifically focused on behavioral health information exchange by being in that position I now become a place for people to bring their questions, their concerns, their ideas about how things are exchanged. Prior to that role, people might reach out to CORHIO, but it was never clear whose role it was to follow up. That became a really important piece to this. We were lucky to receive a grant from the Rose Community Foundation two years ago to fund this position. Because if it's success CORHIO has now brought this position into the budget. Another thing that we did here, I'm sure many, many other states are currently doing or working on and that is to bring all kinds of stakeholders together on a regular basis to continue to talk through the issues relevant regarding behavioral health exchange. We're not exception here. We meet bi-monthly. We have folks from IT from clinical and policy, from physical health, behavioral health substance use. We have wonderful representation from our state agencies as well. A colleague of mine and I started some thing called the HIE learning collaborative. We invite HIEs from across the country. We meet quarterly if there's anybody on the phone right now that would be interested in that please reach out to me and I'm happy to add you to that. We simply share best practices and ideas about how to bring the behavioral health data into a health information exchange. Another big part of my time is education and outreach. A frequent question, two years ago, not so frequent now, but still applicable is in what situations can behavioral health data be exchanged and when can't it be. We developed an eight minute webinar that explains the specific policies in Colorado and that's been very well received. We also had to do some policy updates. I'll explain what those were. There were two main areas that were limiting the exchange of (in this case) mental health information. As many of you know, behavioral health is a tag that includes mental health data and substance use treatment data one of our regulations, which was with the office of regulatory affairs, which regulates our license to mental health workers, prior to a state statute change, it required consent to exchange any confidential information if you were one of those licensed workers. Which of course, all of our community mental health centers employ those workers and so therefore it became a ubiquitous standard. What we did was added -- here in Colorado -- we added a statute which said, "The above is superseded by if you follow HIPAA and 42 CFR that information can be exchanged. That really freed up organizations and individuals to start to share mental health data, data that wasn't subject to 42 CFR part 2 but that was now able to be shared via HIPAA We also have our Office of Behavioral Health and that organization is tasked with many other things as well, but one of them is to take a look at community mental health centers and how they operate. While they didn't make a change to the regulations, it was always the case that mental health data could be shared via HIPAA and that 42 CFR part 2 would need to be followed. When they were updating those statutes in order to consolidate them, they included specific language around HIPAA Great! We can start exchanging mental health data based on that statutes change. The answer is yes and no. One of the barriers we encountered when we started to go out and ask community mental health centers why they weren't engaged currently in exchanging behavioral health or mental health data was that the way that their electronic health records stored the data, it was not easy to fix, filter, and segment out each of those pieces. In fact, when we surveyed our community mental health centers in our area it turned out that they were interpreting the 42 CFG part 2 regulation in three different ways. The first one, was the most restrictive. In this case, the legal council that was working in those community mental health centers said, you know, either because you are receiving SUD funding and it's being used to cover your general operations or simply because we believe you are a substance use treatment facility even though you are also providing mental health only services, regardless your entire health record is covered under 42 CFR therefore 100% of the data would need to be exchanged using that. The middle of the road interpretation of 42 CFR by our community mental health centers is one where they say, okay you're a multi-use facility so when you are just providing mental health data, that of course is not subject but when you are providing substance use treatment that entire part of that record and any data that's collected during that treatment program is meant to be share-able only with 42 CFR restrictions. The challenge there is that that data is comingled within the EHRs mostly because prior to 2011, consent was needed 100% of the time. The EHRs weren't set up in a way to be able to designate that. The final way in which community health centers are interpreting is that only the data that would identify somebody as receiving substance use services and that turns out to be the way in which you can use value sets to be able to take a look, for example at diagnosis and say, if it identifies someone as a substance use person then that data cannot be exchanged. I'm not going to spend a lot of time but these were the four various scenarios that we entertained about how to add behavioral health information to our exchange. Number four is what we landed on... which is having the patient manage the exchange. The final piece I want to speak a little about here is how we landed on the architecture for what we're going to do for this proof of concept under this grant. What you'll notice on the left-hand side is what's currently in place the kind of cloud shape there. We have data coming into our HIE from hospitals were beginning to grab data. We're able to grab mental health only data if an organization is ready to send that to us. Physical health long term care, that's available through a provider portal. We also do results delivery, but here I'm just focusing on the provider portal. The way that we envision running this proof of concept, you can see the information on the right there we're going to set up a separate SDX repository for pulling in the continuity of care documents, the CCDs from any provider that wants to share their data only via consent, so that will be put in there. Then we're going to have a patient portal where the patient will be able to specify which of the organizations that are currently using our provider portal at CORHIO, which of those organizations will have access to that sensitive, sharable data The way we're going to do that is we're going to use our portal can do exchanges via eHealth exchange. Our plan is that from within the portal a query would be made to the protected information and then if the patient had consented for that organization to see the data, it would now be shared via a window within their portal. One of the reasons that we wanted to try out the patient managed consent versus the consent entered and managed organizationally was that our hypothesis was that if patients are more directly engaged with the sharing of their data, they will be more directly engaged with their care. It also fits very well into the test grant that we're doing with the personal health records. Moving in that direction seems to be something that we want to at least try out. As Kate mentioned, at the end of the ONC grant, we will be offering a report that will show how successful this method of exchange, where the patient is in control of the sharing of the data, how well that works compared to what our colleagues at Quality Health Network are launching. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Jane at Quality Health Network to explain how they plan to do consent management of behavioral health. Thanks, Toria. Hello everyone. I'm going to share with you a story in what we're doing is with Mind Springs Health -- which is a regional behavioral health organization in western Colorado. They have 13 locations that span within a 23,000 mile square area Those of you who know Colorado just look at the continental divide and go west to the Utah boarder. They have 13 locations in that vast area. The goal of our work with Mind Springs Health is to securely exchange the continuity of care documents and integrate them into our HIE into an area we've created. We call it a sequestered repository. I'll get into more detail about that. Our plan and what we are just preparing to launch into (and I'll describe that) is to receive those CCDs and share them in two different fashions (I'll discuss that in just a minute.) First, is -- how did we get here? It's a story that goes back at least 4 years It really started with our physicians and care providers in the region. They came forward and sort of had a mutiny and said hey folks in behavioral health at Mind Spring We refer our patients to you for behavioral health care and then we never hear back! We don't know how the treatment's going. We don't know what medications you've put our patient's on and the quality of care issue -- we need to know what's happening with our patients in the behavioral health world! We can't provide good primary care if we don't know what's happening with the behavioral side of our patients as total patient care for our patients. With long conversations around the table with Mind Spring's help, Mind Springs began trading faxes back to the referring providers so that they could share back with the referring providers what's going on with their patients. They did this workflow very expensive for those of you who still live in the fax world, you know that's not very secure and it takes a lot of folks to do hand faxing of information. They faxed kind of a customized report back to the providers that said -- here's the medications your patient is on and here's the treatment plan. They gave some tidbits of information back to the primary care providers which was really very helpful because, clinically, that gave some good information in to the primary care world. From that continuation of conversations continued because Mind Springs Health really wanted to move electronically into the HIE world and we have active leadership in Mind Springs Health. Very active participation in our community. Because of their regional presence they really wanted to improve their electronic positions cut down on the FTEs and increase the security issues. My third bullet point on this page is, we embarked on e-commerce agreement changes. I won't review the state statute changes. Tori has already gone over that, but because of some state statutes changes we could make some of our organizational policy changes and we've been able to make community wide consent HIE consent to share behavioral health information that happens between the patient and the provider as a community level. It goes without saying -- you don't do any of these things without going-steady with your attorneys. Both at the HIE level and at the Mind Springs Health level. We've had extensive legal work on both sides of the equation. That was four years ago progressively moving forward to now. We have changed our HIE platform a little over a year ago -- about 15...16 months ago and the new platform we have, which is power by MERF(???) has given us some really great horsepower under the hood so that we can now have a separate sequestered repository that allows us to have a receive behavioral health information from the source and keep it sequestered separate from the rest of our clinical documents that we received from hospitals and clinics since all other sources. We've also been able to create a CFR 42 Part 2 wrapper and I won't bore you, you all know what those words are that are the very specific language. Anything we received from Mind Springs Health gets this wrapper stamped on it -- any, any, any-- morsel of information that we get from them is stamped with this wrapper. Anything in our HIE whether we're going to push it or or let some provider pull it from us, we're going to have that CFR 42 language on it. Now\ we have the proper HIE technical functionality and we have the legal structure ready to go. That's been the last four years of information to get us to where we are today. We are now, today, ready to embark on a push and pull activity with Mind Springs Health and our community of providers. The push plan is that the referring providers -- all of those great primary care providers -- who refer patients to Mind Springs Health, will still refer, of course, like they have. Mind Springs Health, instead of faxing stuff out to their patients, they are going to send that information electronically to QHN via their direct system out of their technical electronic systems and then with a patient consent attached to it. That will get pushed to our HIE in the pushing process and coming to HIE it will get the CFR 42 part 2 wrapper stamped on it and we will push it out to the designated referring provider. A copy of it is also going to go into our longitudinal health record for other potential providers who may want to get patient consent break the glass and pull that information for another patient care situation. That's the Pull model The Pull model is -- let's say a provider months or weeks down the road is caring for a patient who happens to have had behavioral health in their history. That provider obtains the patient's consent, using our community wide, HIE consent form they then are able to go into our HIE and make notation (I'll show you this in subsequent slides.) about how they have patient consent. They are then able to break the glass view the behavioral health results and act accordingly because of the information they have viewed. I'll show you what that looks like. If there is behavioral health information for a patient and a provider is in our longitudinal patient care record, if behavioral health information is present, this little note appears. It's highlighted consent data notice that says, "This patient has additional data that you will need the patient's permission to view. You have to have the patient's written authorization. The provider's office, the provider has to have the relationship with the patient to get the consent. The provider gets the consent they have to go into our HIE and flip a switch that says I attest I got consent, they flip the switch Then they attest that they have indeed, received consent they have it on file in their office. They know they have re-disclosure rules that they have to abide by. They select their reason for breaking the glass which will be reason A at the bottom of the screen, "I am a licensed health care provider" After they attest that they have the consent and that they are a health care provider then "Voila!" the behavioral health information (as circled here in red appears. That is how Consent happens in the community and a non- prior non-provider to a patient who wants to see information that was behavioral health in nature can get consent and then view the consent. It is only for that provider. It is not visible to anybody else if the consent happens in that provider's office. Our work with Mind Springs Health is a pilot as I mentioned before it's in 13 locations. We assume because there is a lot of energy, it's very positive people are excited about it -- we assume it will be very successful and well received and we have another regional behavioral health organization that has 6 locations that tends to go down into Southern Colorado and we will add that to our next project assuming Mind Springs Health is successful. We'll have a total of 19 behavioral health locations tethered to our HIE. Which we are just tickled about. In summary We think that HIE really provides some really great features to facilitate clinical sharing of informations to improve care for physicians and other health care providers, PAs, nurse practitioners. who have patients that are referred to behavioral health Under HIPAA and CFR 42 guidelines there are ways to very appropriately share information with patient authorization. We think we've got a process that's going to work, a work flow that will work in both a push and pull fashion. We think it's all good for patient care. It helps improve the standard of care. It's all a function of time and trust building. It doesn't happen overnight. As I mentioned it has taken us about four years to get to today but we think we're in a good spot to launch it. I'll close and pass on to our next moderator. Thank you, Jane. We will now move into the Q&A portion of today's webinar. If you have a question, please send it using the questions box in the GoToWebinar panel on the right-hand side of your screen. The first question is directed to SAMHSA. While DS4P provides the framework for sharing someone needs to provide the list of codes that indicate that a particular piece of information is sensitive. Two questions: Does a comprehensive list exist? Secondly, how has that list been vetted? (Again, this is for SAMHSA. This is Ken. There is, in fact, is a value set that was created When Prince George's county, for example, implemented Consent 2 Share, modified the value set They created a second value set for Prince George's County. That's the value set that they used to go into production with. The value set that was originally created is a larger value set than what was implemented in Prince George's County. Each implementation has the opportunity to review those value sets and either modify, either or, or use one or the other intact as it is. Each value set that is created will actually be loaded into the national library of medicine's value set authority center. They will be available publicly In the meantime, if you would like to see the value sets we can, happily, make those available. Thank you. The next question is for CORHIO. When is the white paper that you mentioned due to come out? And how can we sign up to receive a copy? Hi, it's Kimberly. We understand that white paper will be written in the Spring of 2017, so not this coming Spring, but the Spring beyond. It will be published that summer. I think there will be another opportunity for us to talk about it between now and then but certainly if you're interested in a copy of it, please feel free to send me an email at khorle@chorio.org I'll make sure that I'll get you in the queue for that. Thank you. The next question is for Quality Health Network. Is there any community wide consent for provider to provider sharing of part 2 data and, if so, how is the patient informed of the community of providers on a regular basis, for example, if new providers join the community or HIE? This is Jane. I'm assuming you're asking the question for provider to provider sharing of behavioral health information. We don't have a consent for that. We have a consent for provider and patient sharing. For provider to provider sharing We don't have a consent for that. Although there is the sharing of information for continuing care of the patient. I'd have to refer back into the HIPAA stuff if that is for behavioral health if it falls under that I'm not certain that qualifies for that. So I don't have that answer. We only have a consent for provider and patient sharing. I hope that answered it, if not -- ask some more. Ok, this next question Jane is also for QHN Question is: What software does Quality Health Network use that allows for the sophisticated patient consent and provider attestations? Our platform is MIRTH our HIE platform is built on MIRTH. The consent is a legal consent that we have created separate from Mirth. It is a separate, legal document that has to be printed on a piece of paper and handed to the patient for a hand written signature and then kept on file. in the provider's office. The provider attests in the technical system called Mirth which is a platform that they have the consent. The consent is on a piece of paper. Because it requires a hand written signature of the patient, that they are giving provider consent to view their information in the HIE. Ok and the next two questions are for CORHIO and/or QHN The first one is, how is it confirmed that the provider has the proper authorization? I can speak for QHN, the provider has the consent by the patient and keeps it on file in their practice and attests as such if you go back you'll see on the slides they attest as such and the language reads, "By clicking the 'break the glass' below you are certifying you have the patient's written consent, compliant with fed regulations permitting you or your entity to access the information and that re-disclosure by your or your entity will be in compliance with Title 42 CFR part 2." All of those things, if you go read the regulations, and be in compliance with the regs there's teeth in those regs so I don't think there's any provider who is going to attest to this because if they are out of that compliance they are open for big penalties and liabilities. We can go audit their files and their office any time we want. Our privacy officer can, to see that they have that consent. The consent is only good for two years. That's the max that it is good for, but we don't want a copy of the consent on the HIE because the consent is between the provider and the patient. By checking the consent switch in our HIE they are attesting that they have the consent. If they check that and don't have the consent, they are opening themselves up to HUGE liability. Thank you. The next question also for CORHIO and or QHN. Have you considered how you will manage including only consented PHI in a dynamic electronically exchanged share plan that will be utilized and edited by many diverse care team members. Do the data standards include role-based access? This is Toria. I can take that and Jane, if you want to follow up. The way we are doing our proof of concept it will not be based on the individual data elements. The entire stream of data for example, on a continuity of care document, on a CCD the entire CCD will be considered 42 CFR part 2 and therefore the consent will be to share that with the providers within an organization The consent will be with the organization itself -- not individual providers in the organization. What that means is essentially the same thing as if a CCD was sent, let's say via fax, to an organization and then they brought that into their EHR. Let's say in an external documents tab, the EHR or the practices within the practice. The best practices in the practice would dictate who within there could see that sensitive document. It would be a similar thing here. Whoever is logging via the provider portal to CORHIO and getting the behavioral health CCD document, the idea is that that's being controlled at the organizational level. It's only by permitted use. CORHIO just like all other HIEs, we manage and look at who is accessing data. If we're finding anomalies of people accessing data for patients for whom they are not in a treatment relationship or where they need to do payments or operations, we then audit and then we will revoke access to the portal. We're not doing it on the data element as part of this proof of concept at this point. This next question is for QHN. In the QHN Pull Model, what happens if the provider "lies" in his attestation about having patient consent? Is someone assigned to monitor these attestations? I think I've already addressed that, that the provider will -- in our framing about how to use the community wide consent form, they will have to think long and hard if they want to be subject to the civil and criminal penalties of lying in that we can subject them to periodic audits of this, but if they want to wear orange and be in a jumpsuit, that's certainly their prerogative, but I don't think any provider wants to do that. We don't think providers are going to want to do that, after they we are just getting ready to roll this out. In the training there will be some information about fabricating that answer and what they are subject to. It's pretty huge the penalties. We don't think anybody's going to do that. Okay, given the time this will be our last question. This one is for ONC. How lengthy is the process of securing grant funding for an organization that wants to advance their IT infrastructure to participate in HIE programs? Can you repeat that question? Yes, the question is "How lengthy is the process of securing grant funding for an organization that wants to advance their IT infrastructure to participate in HIE Programs? We just went through our latest round of issuing awards generally the process begins with putting out a FOA and a pretty extensive and a detailed review process before we issue awards. Generally when we issue awards a FOA we also do a sort of outreach to make sure people are aware of it. We'll hold a webinar and sort of go over what the FOA will contain so the elements of what success would be for that program. We just finished that and we just launched the program that CORHIO is part of as an awardee If we do have additional funds we'll put out additional money, again you would probably see a webinar from us and you would see additional announcements. Anything else Larry? -- That's great. Ok, thank you Laura. Thank you to all of the presenters and panelists. If are interested in learning more about today's topic or have additional questions, you can visit the SAMHSA and ONC websites and or contact the SAMHSA Health IT team via email using the information presented on the slide here in front of you. As a reminder, this deck will be disseminated to all attendees so you will have access to all of the content shared today throughout the presentation. Please mark your calendars for the next webinar in SAMHSA's Health IT Quarterly Webinar series That will be taking place on February 23rd. Be on the lookout for more information soon. Finally, I would like to thank everyone for attending today's webinar and we look forward to speaking with everyone again in February. Have a great day! 