 [MUSIC PLAYING] DANIEL IMRIE-SITUNAYAKE: Hey, everyone. This is the first of three videos that will teach you the basics of Dialogflow, an incredible tool for building conversational experiences that help your users get things done. My name's Dan Imrie-Situnayake and I'm a developer advocate at Google. In this video, we're going to talk about intent matching, which is how we figure out what a user wants. When we're building a conversational experience, our number one task is to understand what our users are saying. With Dialogflow, our fundamental tool for doing this is the intent. We create an intent for anything a user might request. In this example, we'll create a conversational app to handle customer service for a bike repair shop. For each intent, we provide examples of the various ways the user might communicate it. You'll only need a few examples to get started. Dialogflow will use this information to train a machine-learning model to understand not just the examples we've entered, but numerous other phrases that mean the same thing. Now whenever the user says something, our model will match it so whichever intent is a good fit. And for each intent, we can specify how our app will respond. Let's see an example of intents being matched. We can see our intents on the right, along with our example phrases, and our user interaction on the left. What's your opening time? We're open from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Notice how even when the user words their question differently from the examples in our intent, we still know what they mean. That's possible thanks to our machine-learning model. I need to get my bike fixed. No problem. How about 11:00 AM? So we've seen how the examples we provide in our intents train a machine-learning model that matches what they user says to one intent or another. A typical Dialogflow agent, which represents a single conversational experience, might have anywhere from a few to thousands of intents, each trained to recognize a specific user need. You can even build agents that are able to understand and respond to multiple languages. As people use your agent, you can incorporate what they say into its intents as training examples. So the more usage you get, the smarter your agent becomes. In the next video, we'll go over how to extract detailed information and parameters from what the user says. And the final video of this series will show how we can bring everything together to build rich, natural conversations. Check out the links in the description for more information about intents. Thanks for watching and see you in the next video. [MUSIC PLAYING] 