 (intense music) - I'm Dan Rockmore, Director the William H Neukom Institute for Computational Sciences here at Dartmouth College and on behalf of the college and Neukom Institute, I'd like to welcome you to this years Fall Donoho Colloquium Using AI To Keep History Alive from Heather Maio, the managing Director of Conscious Display. The Donoho Colloquium is an ongoing series of public lectures aimed at increasing awareness of the many important and sometimes surprising places in which computational ideas are shaping our lives. These events are made possible by a generous gift from David Mickey and Dan Donoho in honor of Dan's graduation as a member of the class of 2006. It's a central piece of the larger mission of the Neucom Institute who's aim is to support and integrate computational thinking and computational ideas throughout the Dartmouth Community. The Institute itself is made possible through the generosity of Bill Neucom, Dartmouth class of '64 and former trustee of the college. Information transmission is one of the main tasks and has inspired many to the innovation of computational science. At it's heart, it's the manipulation of an alphabet, organized in some agreed upon form packaged up with meaning and intention by a source and sent to a recipient to be disentangled and hopefully received with its meaning in tact literally in the science, in the neuro scientific sense enabling one person to make an impression on another. In this way, writing may be considered to be among the earliest of computational technologies. It enables us to send information across time and space, to pass it onto future generations preserving stories so that the past is not forgotten. In this sense, computation is an important piece of a historical and cultural preservation providing an evolving set of means and media for keeping memories alive. These days that preservation extends from words to images, sounds and even objects and computation plays a large role in each of these contexts. That said, there is however, something lost in having only artifacts digital or otherwise as the primary objects for interrogating the past. As for written words, Socrates famously said you'd think they were speaking as if they had some understanding but if you question anything that has been said because you want to learn more, it continues to signify just the very same thing forever. I can't help but point out the irony of only be able to tell you this because his words were written down. That said, there is something to what Socrates writes. The words do lie whether be on the cave wall, tablet, page or screen and we must work to bring them to life. Socrates objections derived from a worry that the rise of writing would come at the expense of the oral tradition and memorization and a worry that with that, something would be lost. He quotes the Egyptian King Thamos as saying you have not discovered a potion for remembering but for reminding with words. He was not wrong, there is something to being able to have an actual conversations as a means of investigating the past. If you're lucky enough, you can speak to one who was actually present at the moment of the event of interest and if you're even luckier, he or she will actually remember what happened and allow you to explore their experience with them. There's even neuro scientific data that suggests that dialogue provides a means of internalizing information in a different way from reading it. Conversation and interview is in essence, one of the earliest forms of active learning. But of course, sometimes the witnesses are not longer present, then what do you do? Well I think Socrates would've been very intrigued by the creative approach to the challenge of preservation of historical testimony taken by the company Conscience Display. Conscience Display is a graphic design company specializing in exhibition design and interactive story telling, by integrating holographic rendering and natural language processing, they're pioneering a new form of cultural and testimonial preservation, creating an environment that allows curious person to have something of the story telling experience. With original witnesses of history, even after they are no longer with us and to experience something of the power of conversation and exchange that is for many a crucial part of the imprinting of the memory of one person on another. Today's Donoho Colloquium speaker, Heather Maio is the managing Director of Conscience Display. Conscience Display has produced temporary traveling and permanent exhibitions for USC Shoah Foundation, Agents Trust, the United Nations, Museum of Tolerance and the UK National Holocaust Center. Heather is an experiential exhibit designer who has exhibited in Los Angeles, Cuba and the United Nations. Heather holds a BA in Jewish Studies from San Diego State University and is concept developer of a new entity, New Dimensions in Testimony. The conversational interviews developed there for the public to experience interactive stories. Heather's work has been featured on NBA's Today Show and in the New Yorker and on BBC. Heather's also on the board of the USC Shoah Foundation and now serves as CEO of Story File, an interactive story telling app that uses powerful natural language processing and artificial intelligence to make video interaction just like a real conversation. By using user interfaces to document our lives in real time, stories can be preserved and interacted with for generations to come, she's a pioneer in the exciting new world of digitally enabled museum exhibition. We are delighted that she could make time to share her important work with us today, please join me in welcoming Heather Maio. (applause) - Thank you, that was so sweet. (laughing) That was so sweet, thank you. I am gonna correct you on one note though. I am not on the board of the USC Shoah Foundation. (laughing) I have to change my bio. However, my husband is the Executive Director. (laughing) That might've been where it came from. Maybe I will be on the board one day. Thank you all for being here and thank you to Dan Rockmore for inviting me and being so generous and hospitable this week and thank you Christy. I put her through hell the past eight months. I apologize but I really appreciate the invitation and the time to talk to you. I just wanna give you a little bit of history. He did a great job, I think I can probably leave it at that and go onto the reception but I'm an exhibitional, an experiential exhibition designer, yes, okay. I happen to study and be a student of or a historian of holocaust studies as well. My main focus was on intergenerational holocaust testimony. And how different generations or subsequent generations remember or interpret or internalize that story or that experience, many of them say that they've kind of experienced the holocaust in a subconscious or what do you call it when you absorb something? Embedded, internalized that experience of their parents or grandparents, anyway, that aside, that's a whole other lecture. I was working on one such exhibition for the UK Holocaust Center and I should say in all fairness, with Steven Smith at the time and we were having conversations and Q and As beyond the filming interview that we were doing with these Holocaust survivors and their families and Steven Smith, his doctorate was in the trajectory of memory and how that changes over time. So he's been involved in talking to and interviewing and dealing with Holocaust survivors since he was 20. We started talking about how sad and how problematic it was gonna be for future generations, for my grandchildren who would never have the opportunity to hear a Holocaust survivor in person, yet let alone ask them any questions of their own. And going back to that user led education, something happens when you all are gonna get a chance to ask me questions in about 45 minutes or 40 minutes if I stick to my time. That engagement that we'll have will be very different for you than the engagement you're feeling right now and we knew this. So it was very problematic since all of us in my generation understood what happened in World War Two through, because of or from the perspective of these survivors and we didn't wanna lose that for future generations because we have valued it and obviously the world has valued it. If they hadn't, they wouldn't continually ask them to come back and talk about it year after year, day after day in hundreds and hundreds and thousands of locations all over the world so there was, we were getting some value from it. So we wanted to somehow, not replace it but try and find a way to replicate that experience. What was it, how could we replicate the experience of you listening to a Holocaust survivor tell their story and then you being able to ask the questions on your mind and get those answers directly from them, not the second generation, not the third generation, not reading it in a book but get your answer as if they were talking to you. I was asked early on in this project why can't we use the 55,000 survivor testimonies at the Shoah Foundation had taken already and the issue is that's an amazing archive and it will stand the test of time and it will be there for researchers and the public forever and it's a truly, truly unique and valuable archive but it's in a narrative form so we couldn't just pull, this archive, which I'll explain to you later in the talk is broken out into one minute segments so all 104 hours of it are broken up into individual one minute segments but you enter one of those segments and the person could be talking about anything in any way. So you actually enter the narrative at that point. So it's not as if I'm wording the response as if I would if I was answering your question which is why we had to re film them. So what had actually happened was after Steven and I were done working on that exhibition called Generations, I came to the Shoah Foundation with an idea that we had talked to over time, I had done some sort of experimenting on it. And I was learning about the Shoah Foundation as well. This is another long story but Steven Smith ended up actually the Executive Director of the Shoah Foundation during this time period as well. So I was learning a little bit about the Shoah Foundation, their search capability and I thought this is amazing. We should be able to use your search ability to interact some way with the survivors. And we kept looking at it and peeling the layers, peeling layers, what would that mean, what would we have to do, da da da, then first I wanna show you. I'm gonna work backwards and I'm gonna show you actually the end result. Hello, hello. - Hello. - How are you? - Not too bad. - Are you a Holocaust survivor? - Yes, I did, I survived all of it. - Would you mind if I asked you a couple questions? - Tell me any questions you'd like. - Do you believe in God? - You know, it's very difficult to answer this question about believe in God. I think that the essence, your essence of being brought up in my environment was an inherent belief in the Almighty, how, what and when you didn't question and I still don't question. As far as I'm concerned, I have a very deep belief in the Almighty, I don't speculate on what he is, how he is, what he looks like, whether he looks like at all. As far as I'm concerned, I always remember the first words of Genesis, (speaking foreign language). God created the world and his spirit was floating on the waters, now what that means, I don't know. - How can you believe in God after everything that you've gone through? - How can possibly not believe in him? I mean to survive such an apocalyptic inferno as the Holocaust, I mean, there's only one way. You either believe in chance or you believe in providence and as far as I'm concerned, I believe in providence. - You have a question for him? - [Audience Member] What was your experience in the camp? - Okay so you're not miced. What was your experience in the concentration camps like? - Life in the camp was indescribable because it was living death. And that's the only way I can describe it. Being in a concentration camp, even on a working camp during the Holocaust was living, like living death. You were just one centimeter from the grave. - Okay. Okay so this was part of the generations exhibit that Steve and I were doing for the UK Holocaust Center, the National UK Holocaust Center. And it, we were just so struck because these people, I met with, I had the pleasure of meeting with your ex President this morning, Wright, Jim Wright and we were talking about Vietnam veterans and their experience but these people, they're truly amazing, really, really amazing, they all have PTSD. They've all dealt with it in different ways. But for the majority in mass, they've gone on and they've had productive, happy, normal lives. And the resilience in them, it is something truly amazing and I would have hated for all of your children, your grandchildren to lose the experience of learning from them for future generations which is why we developed the program. There's testimony, there are museums, plenty of Holocaust museums around the world. There's the Never Again, there's the core oral history about remembering it and not forgetting. But I think I always took it their lives and their experience a little bit wider and more universal than just concentrating on what they went through in the Holocaust, it was such an intense period of time and they saw truly the most evil part of humanity. They survived and they lived through it. And what is that like and how does that, how can I learn from that even if I have a normal life, even if I have no reference what so ever, thank God, of for war or that kind of unbelievable tragedy they went through, what can I learn from them? So we wanted to somehow, yes you've got these people's lives and you've got the artifacts and you've got the books and you've got the movies. We just wanted to give you another option, another layer to it to learn about who they were and how they've lived. Part of this is what was my quote, necessity is the mother of invention, right, is that how the quote goes? To raise new questions and new possibilities and to regard old problems from a new angle requires creative imagination and marks real advance in science, when we started this project, it was 2009 and all the survivors, a lot of the survivors were dying unfortunately. We became, the entire field of Holocaust studies became obsessed and worried about what was gonna happen to Holocaust education once they were no longer here. So we were truly faced with necessity and we were desperate. We needed to find a way to replicate this one aspect for future generations so it's election night. And this added to my whole thought process. - We're joined now via Hologram with by Will.i.am who is live in Grand Park. Let's see if we can beam him in now, there we go. Will, thanks so much for being with us. How is this night for you? - This is great, we're at the eve of a brand new day in America and it feels good being here in Chicago. All this technology, I'm bein' beamed to you like Star Wars and stuff. - Yeah, it looks exactly like in Star Trek when they would beam people down, that's what it looks like right here. - Okay so we were all I'm sure glued to the sets that evening and we're in hopefully a new generation, new life, new era, I saw this in the fall of 2008 and this is when Cisco had introduced a technology called telepresence. The issue with this is you needed a live person. So my question was what if you don't have a live person? But you're essentially filming this person with a camera in Chicago and then putting his visual representation into another space so why can't you do that with a filmed version of an individual, seems simple, right? It took us six years to, well it took, so I went to the Shoah Foundation, this whole project had to lie with the Shoah Foundation, it had to be theirs. They are the world's largest audio visual archive of Holocaust survivor testimony in the world. They are the resource to every single Holocaust class, Holocaust museum, anything researchers, anything, any class from fourth grade through university. Any research that's done is done with the Shoah Foundation around the world, this project, if it was gonna have a life on its own, I could've done this for any museum, that's fine but it wouldn't have had a life. It wouldn't have been in every museum. It wouldn't have been available to every museum. The USC Shoah Foundation is a resource so all their content is basically open to all of you. And that's what we wanted for this particular archive. Let me see, there we go. This is a friend of mine, her name is Rose Schindler. So I was, my film crew in San Diego where I was working out of at the time was just getting into filming in 3D for the glasses and everything and they said oh, no, no, no. We have to film a Holocaust survivor in 3D. It'll be so cool so I said alright, well I'm actually. I've got this idea about this conversation so let's film it in 3D and let's see if it makes a difference to how immersive the environment is. Let's see if it makes a difference in whether or not you feel as if you're really having a conversation. The vision for this project was I wanted to be able to sit a Holocaust down like Dan is now and I wanted to be able to sit next to that Holocaust survivor or at the end of the table across from the Holocaust survivor and actually feel as if they were in the space and I was having a conversation with them. That was the entire vision and so I said okay, maybe 3D can work and they were all oh, this is gonna be the wave of the future. Everybody's gonna have their own glasses. This is gonna be great. We filmed Rose in 3D and she answered about 12 questions and all we did really was we put the question options like on the other side of the screen and you could tap on it and she would respond so museums have been doing that for probably 20, 25 years and it worked okay. In the 3D glasses, it was okay but I didn't like it because you were changing your physical being. I wanted you to just walk in there as you were, sit down and be able to see it. So I said okay if Cisco can do this with telepresence, maybe I can get Cisco to do this with recorded video. They weren't interested but then I said to myself, alright, there's gotta be someone working on true Hologram technology. We didn't care where in the world, I should back up. So I did go to the Shoah Foundation and they told me great idea, why don't you go and see if you can make it work? If you can find the technology that will make it all work. They weren't, there was no money to do any of this at the time, we had no idea how much it would cost anyway and we didn't know if it could actually, if it would work, if it would do what we wanted it to do, if it would be similar, how the audience would respond to a videoed person, none of it so they were really taking a leap of faith even with letting me play around with it and try and do it so I went out and I found another institute and okay, that was the USC Shoah Foundation. This is the USC Shoah Foundation archive. I don't know if any of you have seen this. It's truly amazing, how many of you go on Netflix or YouTube, okay that search engine was actually created by the Shoah Foundation's CTO who's father Sam Gusman's father is not here. He is here, maybe not, no, okay. So Sam's Gusman's father, Alan, his first name, he teaches here, right, yeah. Anyway so when you use Netflix or YouTube, you're actually using their search technology. Nothing had existed to search video in the early 90s yet with regard to the internet so they went through all 104,000 hours, broke everything down into these index terms that you see here, there are over 55,000 index terms that they identified. Someone would listen, basically crowd sourced, someone would listen to the entire interview and every minute of that interview, they would put in keywords, they wouldn't transcribe it. But they would put in key words about what that person was talking about at the time so you can search it by anything and it'll bring you right into that minute and you can view it. You can view by language, you can view by experience, male, female, so many different ways to narrow it down to get at the content because otherwise, there would be no way anyone could sit there and listen to the entire thing, I mean. How old are you, you, first row, yeah, okay. So if you had started as an intern 25 years ago, you would be 74 years old by the time you went back to your boss and said what else would you like me to do, if you had watched the whole archive so you'd be right in the middle of your career right now. It's a lot of content so they couldn't use it for educational purposes without creating something like that. Unfortunately they never took advantage of the 13 patents. But that's my issue. This is Steven Smith and so he. He really was, he got the idea and got it big time not only because I was dating him at the time but we were both in this world and we were both very concerned about a Holocaust survivor and obviously because of his PhD and his whole life, interested in continuing to tell that story anyway possible, when he did come to the Shoah Foundation, even though he believed in the project obviously and was a real advocate for it, it was very, very difficult to convey what we were thinking to other people. You just interacted with Pinkus here and it seems I'm sure to you, very normal, now, no. Somewhat normal, yeah, like he was on Skype, right? And you're now used to using Suri, it works really well now, five years ago you were ready to throw your mobile phone at the wall. But it's getting more and more ubiquitous. So but at the time, this was before Skype. And what we thought was obvious, we were having a hard time selling to people. We knew it was going to be very expensive to do, to figure out and ICT, I found, I went off on a tangent, didn't I, sorry, I'll go back to the holographic, holographic imagery, this is actually one of the first true holograms created, it was of his head. You could see around 360 degrees. The problem was it was actually created by spinning mirrors. Can you imagine me putting an exhibition spinning mirrors going 100 miles an hour in a museum with kids coming in? Yeah, never gonna work so even though we found them, I at the same Ted lecture that you saw the previous slide, I found Andrew Jones from ICT, Institute for Creative Technologies which I had found. I knew they were gonna be there, I found them. Then I found out they were actually a USC Institute which really helped because Shoah Foundation was a USC Institute and I said great, this is all in the family. They can cooperate, they can work together, yeah. That was a long haul to get both institutes to work together, another lesson in interdisciplinary work within universities. So I said to him and he's about six foot two and I went up to him and I said I want you to capture a Holocaust survivor and I want you to project him sitting in a room so that I can talk to him. And he literally looked over me, like just over my head and you could see like a typical engineer scientist, you could see his head, his mind going. It just ran with it, it was amazing. And I had Andrew, I'm down here. But he knew exactly, I think he saw where I wanted to go and it was really inspiring because it was the first person that actually got it which was amazing. We thought the industry would understand, the Hollywood industry since they were so into these fantastical graphics and this and making this happen and making this happen, we thought they would get it. Nobody got it, it was really a really really hard sell surprisingly. Then I started to learn more about ICT, Institute for Creative Technologies. And previously I had thought that we would use the Shoah Foundation search technology but they, ICT also had what they called the natural language lab in 2009 and they were working on a project for Boston Science Museum, some of you might've seen it. The twins, the twins at this museum, they were set up as Docents to the museum so you come into the museum and you ask the twins where to go, where can I find this, what should I do? It worked pretty well, ICT in general, the Institute for Creative Technologies was born out of, it's a research lab and it's primarily for the Army and for Army and the Armed Services Training. So they've done a lot with virtual characters. As you can see, the twins are virtual characters. They're graphically either caricatures of individuals. This is not as far as they took it. They also were the creators of the movie Avatar. Did anyone see that? So they were the facial, they were responsible and Andrew as actually the person responsible for the scanning facial recognition that made that movie and that technology all possible. So I said okay if they can do that with virtual characters, why can't we do that with real people? Okay so that took two years to talk through. Then we fast forward to our first, we said okay no body's getting it, we have to do a demo, just a proof of concept, just to see what people's reactions really are about it, see if we're on the right track. So we did this proof of concept in 2012. This was the light stage that was built. It was built previously, it existed already. It was mainly for special effects and movie, they would for example put someone on a treadmill and he would walk and then they would put him into a Piazza in Rome or in a movie or something like that. So mainly built for special effects. It had about 6,000 LED lights. We can relight the subject if we wanted to. We could put him, let's say he's in this room because shadows are very important. So you know that I'm here because you see the shadows on me. If I was lit up with florescent lighting right now, you would think it was really weird and you'd say no, she's actually not there with you. So we needed to be able to relight the subject. We filmed them all against a green screen. Eventually the green screen got bigger. We first had to determine whether or not the Holocaust survivor, so no one had been in this contraption for more than 20 minutes at a time. We were asking an 85 year old person, average age, to go into this, most of them called it the cage. They all had different words for it. To go in this for five hours for five days. And it was bright, as you could see, he's wearing sunglasses right now because we were recalibrating. So it was a pretty big physical ask and we didn't know if they could actually do it. So we brought in another survivor in LA, we put them in there to sit and they pretty much said yeah, it's okay, we can handle it so we tried it with Pinkus for two days. It went really well, the proof of concept worked. We only had 18 responses in that. His subsequent interview that we did has 1936 responses. So in that type of, with that type of data set, you can really have a conversation. For example, you could probably talk to Pinkus for about 18 hours if you wanted to, straight and never hear the same answer. This was another survivor that we did. We ultimately decided to green screen the entire space. We started filming them volumetrically as well. So we started doing the actual scan while we were doing the whole interview instead of scanning them at the end of the interview, it was whole various reasons. We ended up doing, the intention was to do 10 survivors to get not a 360 because we weren't doing any perpetrators but to get a 180 of the Holocaust or what people experienced in the Holocaust so we looked for different experiences, we looked for gender balance. We looked for somewhat different ages. All these people were gonna be relatively around the same age when they survived. We were looking for different, if you were born in a different country so they all somewhat had to have different trajectories through the Holocaust to be a part of the archive. They all had to have spoken in the public a great deal. We needed them to be, when they were asked a question like Pinkus was asked about God, we needed them to be somewhat familiar with answering questions like that. It would just, it made it easier for them to understand the format. It's interesting, there was a, we kept telling them. They wanted to do it, they got it. And they all really wanted to do it. And we kept telling them it's not gonna be easy. We were very discouraging trying to manage them. They're like no, no, no, I've been doing this for 20 years. I'm a pro, I've answered every question under the sun. There's nothing you can't ask me and sure enough, by the third day they were saying I was sadistic and I was torturing them, they all finished though. And they were all incredibly grateful at the end of it. But it was a big ask to do this with them. So there's Steven, he's interviewing. We did, we ventured out into multiple languages. Ultimately we've done 18 survivors and we did one survivor of the Nanjing Massacre, yeah one survivor of the Nanjing Massacre in Mandarin. So we did a little bit of Polish, a little bit of Hebrew. We interviewed him in Hebrew for two days. Mostly English and then one person in Mandarin. This was during the break, this is hysterical. So this woman who you see the No Smoking sign up there. Okay so she has smoked like at least a pack a day ever since she was liberated, like literally since the day she was liberated. She's 92 years old and she came from England to do this interview with us, she was amazing, amazing. She kept saying that every one of them had like a quote that they were pretty famous for. She used to love to say how complete idiots the Germans were. Just for instance, she says that the fact that they followed their own laws to the extent that they had to arrest her and her sister and keep her in jail until they were tried when they knew that they were ultimately only going to send them to Auschwitz actually saved her, she said a complete idiots. You wasted all this money and time and they kept her alive in jail for maybe eight months waiting for trial only to be convicted obviously and sent to Auschwitz. She happened to be the cellist. She survived because she was the cellist in the orchestra in Auschwitz. This is Madame Shaw in Mandarin, Hebrew. She's a crack, she's amazing and this one's in the, if any of you end up in Nanjing, I really, you must, you absolutely must go to the memorial museum there, it's probably one of the most impressive museums you'll ever see. So this, after we did the proof of concept with Pinkus, this was sort of our visual conception of where it would go when it was finished or what it would ultimately do, I'll play this for you, oh, no, I won't. Okay nevermind. So ultimately what we wanted to do was build a little set up like this, this is actually what was call a Piko Ray Projector, it's 220 projectors and it projects him onto a screen, it looks, it's one, he was only filmed in 180, not 360 so oh, so we did it to be platform agnostic or visually agnostic. You can do it holographically, you should be able to do it in classrooms that other way. This is just on a four K LED screen, life size. You can project it on a monitor like this. So you could do it on your computer and you can even talk to him on your phone so we did it to be completely platform agnostic and open to everyone. This was a theater, a holographic theater that was built in Chicago, the Illinois Holocaust Museum there. This is about a 75 seat theater. And they did a holographic Peppers Ghost effect. It's not exactly what our vision but it works for them. They're happy, this is the multi scopic, the ray, the Pinkus, so it's probably the closest that you can get to a full body true hologram. It was only done in 180 though, not 360 yet. But I could literally walk around, like I could walk around Dan, I could see this side of him and then I could walk around you and see this side of you which all added to the illusion of creating an environment where I would feel as if the person was there. All of this, I should say had nothing at all to do with the real purpose, the tech had nothing to do with the real purpose, the real purpose was to enable you all to have conversations. And to really ask the questions that were on your mind. So it was always content, we used technology in order to share the content the best way that we could possibly think of to do, ultimately what we would like is you to walk into a room, be able to have a conversation with somebody, anybody and not even notice that there's any tech behind it. It's truly always been content first which I think sometimes we miss, especially right now with VR and AR and all of this content that we've taken can be put in those can be visualized with that and can be played with but it's not about that, it's about enabling the conversation, whatever way that generation is viewing it is encountering it and engaging with it. This, so I wanted to show you. What's your name? - My name is Charles Harris Melcher. - What should I ask him? What do you do for a living? - So I have two jobs, I run two companies. One's called Melcher Media which is a little packaging company that has morphed into a creative services company so we help people tell their stories in different media. And the other is the Future of Story Telling which is an organization that I started seven years ago to explore how story telling's evolving in the digital age. - Okay so what is this? This is where we're going next with the conversation. What we wanted to do was, the one thing that while we were testing Pinkus and the other 18 survivors in the public over the past four years, the one thing that we got from everybody was can I do this with my grandparents? Can I do this with my parent, my father was just diagnosed with Alzheimer's, can I use this and film him? Can I do this with the founder of my company so he or she can talk to 25,000 employees and make them feel like they've gotten to know that individual and about the company so we said alright, what does it mean to make that technology ubiquitous for everyone so what we've been working on recently for the last two years is making the technology ubiquitous so that all of you can record your loved ones family history, your loved ones stories, your loved ones experiences and that your grandchildren will then be able to get to know that person in a way that they've never been able to do before. It could stay private or it could be on our platform. So I don't know if any of you, do any of you recognize Mr Wright, yeah, hello. - Hello. - How are you? Okay, I'm still working on this. You guys are getting a sneak peak. Not working. That's the problem, oh okay. What do you do for a living? - Well after graduating from law school, I went into the public agent of travel guides and that has been the source of my income ever since. That's what I do for a living, now I'm retired and I'm still working on the travel guides and still earning an income. I never thought in a million years that at my age, I would be still working as hard as I do. But for some reason I can seem to rid myself of an obligation of the Frommer travel guides we are now publishing over 110 guides, many of them in revised additions each and every year and every morning when I get up, there are dozens of emails to me from office or located all over the world in web areas of office, various questions to ask. So strangely enough at my age, I'm working harder than I ever did before but that's what I do for a living. - Does anyone know who he is? No? What's your name? - My name is Arthur Frommer. - So what about my grandparents. So this Mr Fromer and this is his granddaughters here. His wife there and they were interviewing him via the story file, what was really really fascinating to us was he happened to be there during the interview. So normally we're envisioning this as if they're not there and their grandkids or your great grandkids are getting to know you and you're not around anymore. But he happened to be there for the interview and what happened was the girls would ask questions, he would answer it via the app, via the application and they learned a lot that they didn't know about him through their questions and they would then turn to him and ask for more information or clarification or they had follow up questions and it began this dialogue that they had never had before in their family. And the older granddaughter said thank you so much because I've never actually, not only did I learn a lot about my grandfather but I've never had these conversations with them so that was, it was truly, truly, the mother of the two girls emailed us later saying thank you, it was such a gift to the family because the girls felt like they had really gotten to know something about him that they never really realized enough to even probably ask or even to have that conversation so it forced something that was really beautiful for them. I think a lot of times you probably don't realize that you have a lot of questions for your relatives that you don't realize until it's too late to ask. We were talking about it earlier that you have grandparents and they pass away and then 20 years goes by and you have so many questions for them that you will never be able to ask, this would give you a way to do that. There's a lot of other applications, education, think what it would be like to have a world famous physicist come into your classroom and the kids in your classroom be able to ask that person any question that they wanted about their life, why they got into physics, why don't you describe to me what you did instead of the teacher describing to us what your theory is. A lot, a lot of applications. So this was his wife and their conversation that they were having after and during, he's adorable. So what about me, so what if I wanted to leave, what if I wanted to leave my own legacy for my kids and my grandkids in my own words? What if I wanted to interview myself and do the same interview every 10 years and see how it's changed? What if I have pictures, what if I wanna film my grandmother or my mother even and have her explain, I filmed the actual picture and have her explain what we were doing, what was going on in that picture, who's in the picture, how many of you have gone out and gone over to, have been dating somebody and their parents have gotten out a photo album at some point during the dating process, none of you, really? Okay so how many times have you looked at a photo and gone oh my god, that's so cute, what was happening in that and then the parents get all excited and they explain the whole, to much to the other person's, they explain everything. So what happens to all that information though? Because you're not gonna really know the story. You might not remember it, what happens to it when you're gone, who are these people, what is anybody care about having the picture in the first place if you don't know who's in it? Or what was happening, we wanted to give people a place to put all of that, family vacations. What was your favorite family vacation and you could put your video that you guys made or your kids made of it and put that in and describe what was happening. This was our favorite vacation from da da da and you could tell them all about it and watch the video. What if you have kids, you have a nine month old, right? What if every year when she starts talking, what if every year you asked her the same questions in almost the same place, what if you did it every five years even, how much would you like to go back and talk to yourself at five years old and see what you were thinking, how cute would that be? So this is the way it's gonna work now. We've made it somewhat ubiquitous, it's also platform agnostic and be done on a phone. You can be filmed professionally. Your script could be bespoke. Eventually you will be able to add questions into the script of your own because everybody will have your own questions, you'll have follow up questions. Someone will answer a ubiquitous question like describe who you are and you'll have, you could have five follow up questions for that person. So you'll be able to add your own. You could do it on the computer. You could be filmed in four k. We could film you in volumetric and 360 and put you in AR glasses in 10 years probably, five years. There are people, Andrew is one of them who is working with a company right now that is going to eventually crack a 360 display that's practical and somewhat consumer ready so a real hologram will eventually at hand. Or you can just do it on your computer using your computer's camera, it would be a little bit more difficult if you did it on your own computer and you filmed yourself and your own camera because you'd also have to know how to edit it. But we're working on tools to help you do that as well. So that's probably that would be what would be next coming up from us. I think this is the Q and A part, yeah. (applause) I stuck to 45, right, okay. Yeah. - [Audience Member] It seems to me one of the harder parts to this is figuring out what questions to ask. - Very difficult. - What question is. So I mean the Holocaust is fairly constrained. - Well for the, with regard to the Holocaust survivors, both Steven and I have seen and actually been involved in hundreds and hundreds of Holocaust survivors giving speeches and Q and A's with the public. And through the UK Museum, we know pretty much what the public asks, there's about a top 100 questions. We asked each of the 18 Holocaust survivor anywhere between 750, Pinkus has the most at 1935, 36. But yeah, we wanted to stick to, you're right, it's a finite amount of data, right? I can't possibly ask you every question that the public would ask so what happens then if you don't have an answer for it, we did default answers for you to keep the conversation going. There's that one, b, the natural language and deep learning and the whole machine learning and AI is getting a ton better. Everything that we've done up until now has been manually or personally trained. So even though it works off of a very large database and it's continually learning from itself and adjusting, it needed a tremendous amount of data and only people can do that right now. Second, the questions, we wanted to keep pretty universal. So there are always questions, like how we did it for the app version is things that you would ask if you were getting to know someone, where are you from. Just general questions, do you have brothers and sisters? Things like that, we know that they're universal questions that people will always have, particularly of a Holocaust survivor, they'll be universal questions that you could get pretty much from any sector, I guess, or experience. You probably have a list of universal questions that you can find and draw from. But that's kind of the secret sauce, definitely. We have that patent too. (laughing) Yeah. I can hear him, okay. - Do you see a difference in the types of questions that people ask in the living person verses their representation of these people and what can learn from those differences in the types of questions? - That was really interesting. It was one of our questions was how would people react to the filmed version verses a real person. No, they don't, there's absolutely no difference whatsoever. They go on, they ask compound questions. They wanna tell you their story first before they actually ask the question. They react entirely as if he's real which is very interesting, we wonder as this becomes more ubiquitous and in museums everywhere, we do wonder five years, 10 years from now, will people react differently then? Because right now they think he's real, they think, like I said, they think he's on Skype even though we are not fooling anyone, we tell them up front this is a filmed version of this individual and that's another note, everything that those individuals say on any of these recordings on the video clips is what they've actually said. There's no editing, there's no manipulation. There's no characterization, anything that they said. So for instance, I can't stop someone. When they go on, like I tend to go off on bunny holes, right, have you noticed during the speech, yeah. You can't stop me because you're, it's not polite. (laughing) I can't stop them either so whatever they say is what they said, I could reask it and ask them to shorten it but both answers go in the database so and then there's another whole section to the natural language algorithms and myriad of data that has to be entered to, yeah. - So I'm trying to understand how many questions to you have to have in a database in order for it to have, for you to have a conversation that is fluid. You said you had maintained. - Obviously the more you've got, the better, the more natural your conversation is going to be and the more content that you have to get at without them going back continually saying I don't have an answer for that. Would you like to ask me something else? Yeah or if it doesn't understand you, let's say you do a compound or a really complex question, they, the algorithm will say could you repeat that. If it still doesn't understand what you're saying, it'll say maybe reword it, reask it a different way. If it really doesn't get it, it'll say I don't have an answer for your question. Would you like to ask something else? We're here to talk about the Holocaust. Let's get back to that or my life or being President. If the database is really small, they can get back to the conversation and redirect, we call it redirecting. So the conversation stays on task. - You started at the beginning talking about how people or children or grandchildren of Holocaust survivors feel that they have experienced and this is called transgeneration control. - Right. - Transgeneration in one thing, in some sense, people spectators, the ghost will haunt us to the future but then you move to programs that are not just simply about trauma, linked particularly to genocide but really anyone can do it to somehow immortalize themselves through these so could you talk a little bit about whether, doing it for the Holocaust is a way of also dealing with this trauma or trying to bring it out and what would be the benefit of actually just doing it as a virtual immortality. - I'm sure you have a really good story to tell about your life, don't you? You think you do? I think everybody, every single person in this room has something to say about their life and how they've lived, choices they've made, things they've done, exciting things, sad moments, things that, traumatic moments, happy moments. Things they've lived through that they've learned from so I don't think it's necessarily exclusive. Yes, Holocaust survivors have one particular story to tell and that's important, very, very important. But I'm not gonna say that everybody else's story is not important as well. You have astronauts you can learn from, physicists you can learn from. You can, I'm sure I could learn something from this gentleman here, it's not, I don't think there's anything that's truly, how many of you could say that there's absolutely nothing I could learn from you? There's nobody in this room that could say that. So yeah, it is mostly about keeping that alive and that story alive for your future generations as well. There's that element so they obviously might care enough to get to know you if you were their great grandfather whereas this gentleman's child might not ever get to know but the other element is there are people in this world that I would love to just get to know and know their story and know who they are and what they're going through. And I'll never get the chance to do that. I would never get the chance to ask a person in a refugee camp a question, my own question. Unless I go there so it's just about what you wanna learn. It's all about you. You can drive it, you can use it, you could not use it. It doesn't matter to me, its there. It's a tool for you to use any way you wanna use it. There was a gentleman. - Yeah so I was, it's really, my mind is filled with all kinds of possibilities listening to you. I'm wondering whether there's, either you're doing it now or there's a plan to add other types of media to the question and answering 'cause I could imagine someone talking about something and then being able to put in an image from their photo album or even from something that's connected with the period or the experience that they're talking about. I talk a lot about the material for being an archeologist and I could see talking about something but also having an image of that object that I'm talking about instead of just having, watching the person speak to me. It seems that it might even be in terms of, might be in some cases, allow more data, even require less of a person and a kind of studio presence to do that sort of thing. So they're also talking about things that are important to them that are maybe more object based instead of just. - Yeah, that would just be audio based. - It would be like a voice, almost like a voice over or even having the person with a window show up next to them or something. - Yeah. They could do it anyway they want. They could focus the camera on the image. They can download the image and then do the voice over through the speech recognition but it would all be voice activated so you could say anything about anything you want to. That it, oh, one more. - You mentioned that someone in a refugee camp and whatever, can you imagine tying this to a simultaneous kind of translator or a person is speaking in their native language but then you have a translation program that's translating the questions and the answers? - Sure, yeah, sure. So our intent is to do it for every country, have it available in every language. We're gonna do Mandarin, Spanish. I think we were, French, Russian, we have a whole list. And it's really, it's only because technology's come so far in the last couple years with regard to speech recognition, Google Translate works, is working right now, two years ago it was working about 70ish, 74, now it's up to like 93, 96, somewhere in there so it's really working amazing so yeah, you could ask a question in Mandarin of this system eventually, when I get it programmed and the person right now will answer you in English, that could be simultaneously translated. This is all translated in real time, completely real time, none of it. That was the big thing, to make it ubiquitous, we knew that everything we had done manually with the survivors had to be automated somehow and technology had just kinda gotten there for us. We advanced it considerably over the past two years but really it was just piecing together certain systems and then expanding on them and creating the ability for them to all talk to each other so yeah, it could be in any language you want. If Google Translate now does interpret the language and translates it as well into English, you could do your interview in Mandarin. I could even ask you the, or you could read the question in English, do it in French and then I could ask you in English and it'll answer in French. I could ask it in French, it'll answer in French. It would answer with subtitles as well if you want to turn them on, yeah. So hopefully it'll work. That might not be available in June when it comes out though. (laughing) Not right away, a future build, future build, yeah. - So when you mentioned asking questions to relatives that have passed away, that sparked something in my mind. I don't know if you watch the Black Mirror but it, how do you deal with ethical problems? For example, someone dwelling on someone's passed away and using that to never get over. - The grieving, yeah, the grieving process. I don't know. I don't know if that's for me to decide either. One of the, my 27 year old, her first comment was mom, I don't know if I wanna talk to you when you're dead. And it's not necessarily, I don't envision it for that generation necessarily. I think it would be amazing selfishly for my five children to have gotten to know my grandparents who I had a really deep connection with and I loved to death that they never got to know. I would've at least loved to have them say hello to them. Or like tell them how they met. It would've really meant so much to me. One of the first thing that you forget about someone that's passed away is their voice. You can often see an image but that has mostly to do with the fact that we have pictures so occasionally if you remind yourself what these individuals looked like, it's imprinted in your memory but the voice is the one thing that you forget. So just to be able to hear my grandmother say I love you would be amazing 'cause I can't remember her saying it. But yeah, I don't know, what will it do, that's for other researchers to figure out. I can't say, I'll put it out there in the world and if people do have a problem with it, it won't work. (laughing) - Anyway, I think that's a really good question to end on. I think they're are all kinds of super interesting conversations to have around this kind of technology. So Heather. - Also who uses it. Right, I mean, we were going through that right now. We had a company approach us to use the technology for something and we made the decision, the corporate decision to not sensor who uses it in a way. I can't, I can control somewhat of what they say and what they've got on the platform but if they're using it in their own private website and they're white labeling it, I can't control necessarily, everyone has to be able to use it in a way they wanna use it so as much as I'd like to say you can use it, you can use it, you can't use it, that's not fair either, so. But I have a work around. I'm going to the opposite side, I'm going to tell them what they're doing and get them to do it. (laughing) So then everybody will be off balance. Thanks, thank you. (applause) 