  MUSIC  MILES O'BRIEN: Ready to think big thoughts about the future of computing? Then start thinking small.  SUBHASISH MITRA: Something new has to come along basically. And the question is what's new,  what's next. MILES O'BRIEN: With support from the National Science Foundation, electrical engineer Philip Wong and computer scientist Subhasish Mitra at Stanford University are working with IBM to develop a new generation of computers with processors made of tiny carbon nanotubes -- 50 thousand times thinner than a human hair. Bye-bye slow, bulky silicon chips. Hello, nearly endless possibilities. SUBHASISH MITRA: Today, we have incredible computing that has changed our lives, but to be able to do more so, we need massive amount of performance. For example, to do runs on a supercomputer -- we should be able to run that on a cellphone. MILES O'BRIEN: So far, their carbon nanotube chip has pretty modest functionality -- it runs this robotic arm that shakes hands. But let there be no mistake -- this was a big breakthrough years in the making. The Stanford team had to overcome some big design and device fabrication hurdles to get this far.  PHILIP WONG: Even though it may be the perfect material to make the perfect transistor, the engineering challenge of how do you make them on a large scale with billions and billions of these transistors on the same chip or even in multiple layers of the chip, how to do that is a greater challenge. MILES O'BRIEN: Building a multilayered chip, carbon nanotube transistors and memory devices stacked on top of each other like floors of a high rise is the holy grail for this team. PHILIP WONG: Today silicon chips are two-dimensional. Just like the landscape here, you have houses and you have streets, and so on. What do people in big cities do? They build high rises. MILES O'BRIEN: The stakes are high. Much of our global economy runs on the expectation that computers will continue to get faster, devices smaller and costs will keep going down. PHILIP WONG: The fact of the matter is if we don't work on it, if we don't put efforts into it, this is not going to happen. MILES O'BRIEN: Wong sees this "high rise" architecture as a gateway to vast improvements in computing speed and performance. PHILIP WONG: And if you look forward into the future, I would say, you ain't seen nothing yet. There's a lot to be done and there's a lot to be possible that we can envision. MILES O'BRIEN: Building carbon nanotube processors with the muscle to turn that smartphone into a supercomputer. That's a good deal. Let's shake on it. For Science Nation, I'm Miles O'Brien.  MUSIC  