 Wrike Project management has been widely used by engineering teams to write code and fix bugs, but it’s also useful for marketing and creative teams. When you’re constantly juggling multiple campaigns and projects, you need a tool that will help you stay organized and hit deadlines. Turning to a project management platform is the right idea. Agile project management software has proven it’s value beyond IT, and as a result, has grown into a major technology vertical. But not all project management solutions offer the same features. Marketing departments and creative teams frequently receive requests from outside the department. Requests come in via email, word of mouth, or even a note left on your desk while you were in the bathroom. So what kind of features can help you manage these requests, and manage feedback associated with different projects? For a long time, project management platforms have neglected the needs of marketing and creative users. Luckily, that’s changing. More progressive vendors are working to address the needs of their whole user base — not just developers. Take Wrike, for example. They recently added request management and native Adobe integration to their features list. The request management feature lets team members from other departments submit a formal request through Wrike. Think of it like a help desk ticket for marketing and design. This standardizes the request process and gives you more control over work intake. Wrike also added native integration with Adobe Creative Cloud. This feature lets users comment on files and mock-ups without leaving the system. Any feedback or changes are automatically delivered to photoshop, illustrator, InDesign, or which ever Adobe app was used. It also lets designers deliver new file versions without leaving their workspace. To find out more about Wrike’s new features and how to use them, read the full article. To find other project management solutions, check out our website, TechnologyAdvice.com, where we can help you find the best technology for your business. 