 ADS comes with a powerful filter design guide to help you create filters according to your specifications. The filter design guide is a great starting point for your filter designs, and you can easily tweak the parameters and translate your designs from lumped components to transmission lines. We will use the filter smart component to design our filter. In this example, we'll make a bandpass filter. In the filter DG-all palette, place the corresponding filter. Select the component and go to design guide, filter, then select the filter control window. We have a number of filter types that we can choose from in the drop down menu. Today we'll create a Chebychev filter. The Ap parameter is the attenuation of the pass band and the As parameter is attenuation of the stop band. We'll leave the passband attenuation at 3 DB but we'll design a filter with an increased attenuation at the stop band. We can also set FS1 and FS2 which are the edge frequencies of the bandpass, as well as FP1 and FP2 which are the pass band frequencies. Of course if you're defining a low-pass and high-pass filter, you only have one band pass and one pass band frequency parameter. Note that the graph of the filter response has shifted as a result of the change in attenuation and parameters. In addition, the order of the circuit necessary to have this response has been recalculated. We can update the smart component by pressing design. You can run a simulation of this filter without having to go to the trouble of editing the schematic. This would come in handy when you're designing the smart component in a larger network of an existing schematic. Go to the simulation assistant tab. You can set the frequency sweep that you want for your filter simulation, but the assistant can also autoset the frequencies for you. Press simulate once you're satisfied with the settings. In the top left we have the s-parameter 2, 1 response of this filter in DB. The gray line is for the specifications that we set, while the blue line is the actual simulated response. In the top right, we have frequency parameters that we inputted to specify the filter, as well as some of the performance indicators and the result of the markers from the plot. In the bottom we have a few plots that can quickly give us an idea of the performance of this filter. If you want to alter the schematic of the filter manually or check the values set, you can do so after you've created the design in the design guide. Just pop into the hierarchy of the filter. We can see the design generated by the design guide. Let's go back out to the top level. We can easily change the components to a transmission line model. Go back to the design guide window. Then select on the transmission utility. If we select the LC to TLine option, we can change existing L and C components to TLine equivalents. Let's change our inductor capacitor series. The blue indicates what will give us the best frequency response. We'll select the open circuit stub. We'll also convert all instances of the LC parallel circuit. We see now that our components have been changed to transmission lines. Back in the filter design guide tool, we can resimulate the t-line design in the simulation assistant tab. If you want to revert to the lumped components simply press design again. I'll simulate the new design with transmission lines. We can now see the new response of the filter. As with any smart component, the schematic for the generated design from the design guide is created in the same workspace. We can access this schematic from the main window. Thank you for watching this Keysight EEsof EDA tutorial. You can find a link to a free trial of ADS in the video description below. 