 This review video is for assembla Assembla is an integrated, on-demand tools to build software faster, with less stress. Assembla provides the tools and services necessary to streamline software development through task management, software versioning, issue tracking, and cloud-based team collaboration. This review video is provided by TechnologyAdvice. It’s part of our mission to educate, advise, and connect buyers and sellers of business technology. Assembla combines ease of use and flexibility in their simple interface. The software is white label, which means you can add your own logo in the top left corner. Below the logo is a series of tabs which are used to navigate to your main workspaces that house wikis, tasks, files, and messages. After clicking on a tab, you will notice that each workspace has additional tabs at the top that will allow you to jump from section to section. Under the tickets tab, any user can create a project or task, assign it to themselves or team members, and set milestones or a due date. One unique feature is the ability to set a custom field, which you can then apply to the project — or “ticket.” Once your ticket is created, you’ll see a list of subcategories across the top, including activity, attachments, related tickets, and time. In the activity stream, you can comment and @mention teammates or entire teams. Once you submit the comment, it notifies your colleagues that they have been mentioned. Under the list view in the tickets tab, you can manage multiple projects and filter them by milestones. You can rank portfolios, analyzing all projects, and prioritizing certain projects. For a more granular view, you can click on the cardwall and see who is working on what and the status of each project — all color coded by priority. Additional functions include file management, messaging, and a company wiki. Assembla works best for project-oriented businesses such as software development, online consulting firms, and firms that outsource to freelancers. It is useful for managers who need to coordinate multiple teams and any employee that needs to coordinate their efforts as efficiently and productively as possible. Assembla is a software-as-a-service vendor that is priced in three tiers: personal, group, and pro. As far as project management software goes, Assembla is ranked on the lower end in terms of price.Cons A limitation we discovered while reviewing Assembla, is its search capability. We found that it’s tough to locate older related tickets using the search feature. Assembla helps teams manage tasks and track issues, collaborate with a distributed workforce, and streamline project management. To find out more about Assembla or other Project management software, check out our website, TechnologyAdvice.com, where we can help you find the best technology for your business. 