If we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats.  Our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth.  Our customers can also develop their own competitive services.  As a result, our revenue or profitability could decline.  We also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payment systems, e-Commerce payment systems and payment systems for mobile devices.  A number of these new entrants rely principally on the Internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We also expect that there may be other changes in the competitive landscape in the future, including: •Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process.  For example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers.  Large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby dis-intermediating MasterCard.  •Rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of MasterCard-branded cards. •Competitors, customers, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services.  •Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. 28Table of ContentsOur failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business.We face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business, revenue and profitability. We generate revenue from the fees that we charge our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards carrying our brands.  In order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our cards.  In order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts.  Over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure.  The demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth.  We may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.  In addition, increased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives.  We may not succeed in these efforts.  In the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry.  Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers.  In addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment.  Our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.  Furthermore, a number of customers from which we earn substantial revenue are principally aligned with one of our competitors.  A significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for MasterCard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past, and we expect some consolidation to continue in the future.  Consolidations have included customers with a substantial MasterCard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor.  Significant consolidation in the banking industry may result in the substantial loss of business for MasterCard, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects.  In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects. Consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial MasterCard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which MasterCard has a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers.  This consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers.  Any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term if we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest significant customers, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. Most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers.  Our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services.  Accordingly, our business agreements with customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers.  In 2011, the net revenues from these customers represented an aggregate of approximately $1.7 billion, or 26%, of total revenue.  Loss of business from 29Table of Contentsany of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. Merchants continue to be focused on the costs of accepting card-based forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability.  We rely on merchants and their relationships with our customers to expand the acceptance of our cards.  Consolidation in the retail industry is producing a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope.  We believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including MasterCard.  Some large merchants are supporting many of the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that MasterCard is now defending, since interchange fees represent a significant component of the costs that merchants pay to accept payment cards.  See “Risk Factors-Legal and Regulatory Risks-Interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations.”  Also see “Risk Factors-Legal and Regulatory Risks-The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material adverse impact on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations.”  The increasing focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings.  Merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards.  As merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.  Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives.  Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues.  In addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with exclusive or nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors.  Such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from MasterCard to the competitors with which they are principally aligned.  A significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.  We depend significantly on our relationships with our customers to manage our payment system. If we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our customers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our cards for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services.  We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates (if applicable) or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands.  Each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features.  In addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for card acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers.  As a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them.  In turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence.  If our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk as described below. With the exception of the United States and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors.  Because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders or merchants, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payment system among regulators, merchants and consumers in these countries.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payment system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business.  If our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. 30Table of ContentsIn addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the United States than we do.  As a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions. We rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our brands and programs.  Although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful.  If the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by the marketplace's perception of our brands and reputation. Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business.  The ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of our company and industry.  Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory.”  Moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.  We have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace.  Under some circumstances, such use could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands.  Such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our business.  If we are unable to grow our debit business, particularly in the United States, we may fail to maintain and increase our revenue growth. In recent years, on an industry-wide basis, signature-based and PIN-based debit transactions have grown more rapidly than credit or charge transactions.  However, in the United States, transactions involving our brands account for a smaller share of all signature-based debit transactions than they do credit or charge transactions.  In addition, many of our competitors process a greater number of PIN-based debit transactions at the point of sale than we do, since our Maestro brand has relatively low penetration in the United States.  We may not be able to increase our penetration for debit transactions in the United States since many of our competitors have long-standing and strong positions (although this could be impacted by the Federal Reserve's implementation of network exclusivity rules under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act).  We may also be impacted adversely by the tendency among U.S. consumers and merchants to migrate from signature-based debit transactions to PIN-based transactions because we generally earn less revenue from the latter types of transactions and, as noted above, PIN-based transactions are more likely to be processed by other ATM/debit point-of-sale networks than by us.  Any of these factors may inhibit the growth of our debit business, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and overall prospects for future growth. Unprecedented global economic events in financial markets around the world have directly and adversely affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business.  The competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business.  Unprecedented events which began during 2008 impacted the financial markets around the world, including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention.  The economies of the United States and numerous countries around the world were significantly impacted by this economic turmoil.  More recently, several European countries have experienced downgrades in sovereign credit ratings by rating agencies, driven by fiscal challenges.  In addition, some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments.  Many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations.  Many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted.  MasterCard's financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis and the state of economic environments.  The condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance.  As a result, our revenue may be negatively impacted, or we may be impacted, in several ways, including but not limited to the following:•Declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors; for example, a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on cross-border travel patterns, which may continue to change.•Constriction of consumer and business confidence, such as in recessionary environments and those markets 31Table of Contentsexperiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders.•Our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults.•Uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers’ businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable.•Our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.•Our customers may decrease spending for value-added services.•Government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products.•Tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility.•Our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including due to an increased probability of sovereign defaults in several European countries causing a liquidity crisis for our customers. See Note 21 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for further discussion of our settlement exposure.•Our business and prospects, as well as our revenue and profitability, could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers.  See “Additional consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for MasterCard and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability” in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Report for further discussion.Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business.A decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions. We process substantially all cross-border transactions using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees.  Revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency.  Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions.  These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases.  Any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. General economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. The global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending.  General economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving payment cards carrying our brands.  Also, as we are principally based in the United States, a negative perception of the United States could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business prospects and growth.   As a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity.   We may incur liability in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons.  If a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of MasterCard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss even if we do not process the transaction. In addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations.  Our MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to 32Table of Contentssettle, was approximately $39.1 billion as of December 31, 2011.  We have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $2.75 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers.  In the event that MasterCard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, MasterCard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from its other customers.  Subject to approval by our Board of Directors, customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of MasterCard.  While we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited.  As a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.  Moreover, during 2011, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by the unprecedented events in the financial markets which began during 2008 and the economic turmoil that has ensued.  The European financial crisis remains a heightened concern.  Our aggregate gross settlement exposures to Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal, four of the countries most significantly impacted by the eurozone crisis, are less than 5% of our total gross settlement exposure and are being managed through various planning and mitigation practices.  Nonetheless, these conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees.  Separately, MasterCard also provides guarantees to customers and certain other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from failures of third parties to perform.  For more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of December 31, 2011, see Note 21 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. If our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced.  Our transaction processing systems and other services may experience service interruptions as a result of process or other technology malfunction, fire, natural or man-made disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, accident or other catastrophic events.  A disaster or other problem at our primary and/or back-up facilities or our other owned or leased facilities could interrupt our services.  Our visibility in the global payments industry may also attract terrorists, activists or hackers to attack our facilities or systems.  We routinely receive cyber-threats of varying levels.  Any actual attacks could lead to service interruptions, increased costs or data security compromises.  If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded.  We maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks.  Despite these mitigation efforts, however, we cannot ensure that the security infrastructure of our processing systems would be immune to these risks.    Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data transportation network.  Inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets.  If one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or other cybersecurity incidents or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services.  Because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands' reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability. Account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and revenue.  We, our customers, merchants, and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards.  In addition, our customers may sponsor third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use.  A breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage the reputation of our brands and lead to claims against us.  In recent years, there have been several high-profile account data compromise events involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affected millions of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, American Express and other types of cardholders.  These events typically involve external agents hacking and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of servers.  As a result of such data security breaches, we may be subject to lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands.  While most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, we could be exposed to damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our profitability.  Any damage to our reputation or that of 33Table of Contentsour brands resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, revenue and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us. An increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards.  Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud.  As outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards.  Increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as mandatory card re-issuance, adoption of new technologies or enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation and financial damage, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. If we are not able to keep pace with the rapid technological developments in our industry to provide customers, merchants and cardholders with new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, which could reduce our revenue and income or limit our future growth. The payment card industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless cards), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others.  We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business.  We rely in part on third p