36Table of ContentsImpact of Foreign Currency RatesOur overall operating results are impacted by foreign currency translation, which represents the effect of translating operating results where the functional currency is different than our U.S. dollar reporting currency.  Our operating results can also be impacted by transactional foreign currency.  The impact of the transactional foreign currency represents the effect of converting revenue and expense transactions occurring in a currency other than the functional currency.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates directly impact the calculation of gross dollar volume (“GDV”) and gross euro volume (“GEV”), which are used in the calculation of our domestic assessments, cross-border volume fees and volume-related rebates and incentives. In most non-European regions, GDV is calculated based on local currency spending volume converted to U.S. dollars using average exchange rates for the period. In Europe, GEV is calculated based on local currency spending volume converted to euros using average exchange rates for the period.  As a result, our domestic assessments, cross-border volume fees and volume-related rebates and incentives are impacted by the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus non-European local currencies and the strengthening or weakening of the euro versus other European local currencies.  For example, our billing in Australia is in the U.S. dollar, however, consumer spend in Australia is in the Australian dollar.  The foreign currency transactional impact of converting Australian dollars to our U.S. dollar billing currency will have an impact on the revenue generated. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar is evident when GDV growth on a U.S. dollar-converted basis is compared to GDV growth on a local currency basis.  In 2016, GDV on a U.S. dollar-converted basis increased 6%, while GDV on a local currency basis increased 9% versus 2015.  In 2015, GDV on a U.S. dollar-converted basis increased 2%, while GDV on a local currency basis increased 13% versus 2014.  Further, the impact from transactional foreign currency occurs in transaction processing revenue, other revenue and operating expenses when the local currency of these items are different than the functional currency.The following table provides a summary of the foreign currency impact on growth for the following items in operating results for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015:  Positive (Negative) Impact from Foreign Currency 20162 20153Net revenue(1)% (6)%Operating expenses 11% 4%Net income 1(1)% (7)%  1 Excludes the impact from Special Items. 2 Represents the foreign currency translational and transactional impact versus 2015.3 Represents the foreign currency translational impact versus 2014.In addition, the Company incurs foreign currency gains and losses from remeasuring monetary assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency and from remeasuring foreign exchange derivative contracts (“Foreign ExchangeActivity”).  The impact of Foreign Exchange Activity has not been eliminated in our currency-neutral results (see “Non-GAAP Financial Information”) and is recorded in general and administrative expenses.  The Company attempts to manage foreign currency balance sheet remeasurement and cash flow risk through its foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in Note 20 (Foreign Exchange Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, 