Risk FactorsLegal and Regulatory Risks  Interchange fees and acceptance practices receive significant and intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.    Interchange fees are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards.  They are also a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process over our network.  We do not earn revenues from interchange fees. We have historically set default interchange fees in the United States and certain other countries.  In some jurisdictions, interchange fees and related practices are subject to legislation, regulation and litigation as electronic forms of payment have become more important to local economies.  Regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation.    Examples of legislative activity related to interchange fees include:•In July 2013, the European Commission proposed legislation relating to payment system regulation of cards issued and acquired within the European Economic Area (the “EEA”). The proposed legislation includes, among other things, the 14Table of Contentsfollowing elements: (1) a cap on credit and debit interchange fees of 30 and 20 basis points per transaction, respectively, initially for intra-EEA cross-border consumer transactions (these cross-border rates are comparable to the consumer rates MasterCard has applied for Europe on a weighted average basis since July 2009), and subsequently for all domestic consumer transactions in the EEA; (2) restrictions on our “honor all cards” rule with respect to products with different levels of interchange; (3) a prohibition of surcharging by merchants for products that are subject to regulated interchange rates; (4) the prohibition of rules that prevent an issuer from “co-badging” (that is, putting a competing brand on its credit or debit cards); and (5) the separation of brand and processing in terms of legal form, organization and decision making.  Procedurally, the proposed legislation is currently being debated, and may be potentially amended, by the European Union Parliament.  The proposed legislation will also need to be reviewed by the Council of Ministers and the European Commission before it can be adopted. Any final legislation, if approved by the European Union Parliament and the Council of Ministers, could be different than what is in the initial proposal.  •In Poland and Hungary, legislation became effective in January 2014 capping domestic interchange fees, and similar legislation is being considered in other jurisdictions such as Portugal and Israel.  Examples of competition-related regulatory proceedings or inquiries around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include:  •In December 2007, the European Commission issued a negative decision (upheld by a judgment of the General Court of the European Union, which we are appealing) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for consumer credit and debit cards under European Union competition rules.  •In February 2007, the Office of Fair Trading in the United Kingdom commenced a new investigation of MasterCard Europe’s U.K. interchange fees (which is suspended pending the outcome of our appeal of the European Commission decision).  Examples of regulation, or potential regulation, by central banks and similar types of regulatory authorities around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include: •The Reserve Bank of Australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours and capping the average of such interchange fees. •In September 2010, the South African Reserve Bank commenced a process to determine the manner in which interchange fees for all payments systems in South Africa should be set.  •The Minister of Finance in Canada is considering revising the voluntary “Code of Conduct”, which addresses issues for payment card industry participants in Canada, to address issues related to interchange rates, transparency of acceptance costs, premium payment product and merchant discount rates. •In 2013, the United Kingdom passed legislation to create a new regulatory body that would have the authority to regulate payment systems, and the government is in the process of determining the scope of this authority.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees.  We believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators’ approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A related to the impact of new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product to other jurisdictions or other products.  Additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation.  Such litigation includes: •In the United States, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws.  These suits (the settlement of which has received final court approval) alleged, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among MasterCard and its customer banks, and MasterCard, Visa and their customer banks in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade.  The suits sought treble damages, attorneys' fees and injunctive relief. 15Table of Contents•In Canada, a number of class action suits have been filed against MasterCard, Visa and a number of large Canadian banks relating to MasterCard and Visa interchange fees and rules related to interchange fees, including “honor all cards” and “no surcharge” rules. •In the United Kingdom, a number of retailers have filed claims against us for unspecified damages with respect to MasterCard’s cross-border interchange fees and its U.K. and Ireland domestic interchange fees.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.If issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services.  This could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive.  Issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability.  In addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them.  This could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings.  We are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity.  The potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on MasterCard relative to its competitors.  If we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in MasterCard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages.   The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.   The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in the United States includes provisions that provide for the regulation by the Federal Reserve of debit and prepaid interchange fees and certain other network industry practices.  Among other things, it requires debit and prepaid “interchange transaction fees” (referred to in the Dodd-Frank Act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be “reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction.”  Additionally, it provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive network arrangements for debit or prepaid cards or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit or prepaid transactions. The Federal Reserve regulations implementing these provisions limit per-transaction U.S. debit and prepaid interchange fees to 21 cents plus five basis points.  The issuer may receive a fraud prevention adjustment of an additional one cent if it meets certain requirements.  The regulations contain exemptions from the interchange limitations for issuers that, together with their affiliates, have less than $10 billion in assets, as well as for debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered payment program and certain reloadable prepaid cards.  Also, while the regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide.  Issuers and networks are required to file various types of information regarding debit and prepaid transactions with the Federal Reserve periodically, and such information could be used by the Federal Reserve to reexamine and potentially re-set the interchange cap.  With respect to network arrangements and transaction routing, the regulations require debit and prepaid cards to be enabled with two unaffiliated payments networks.  The regulations also provide that an issuer or payments network may not inhibit the ability of any person that accepts or honors a debit or prepaid card to direct the routing of the card transaction for processing over any network enabled on the card.  In July 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (the “District Court”) granted summary judgment in favor of a group of retailers and retailer trade associations, overturning these Federal Reserve regulations with regard to interchange fees and network non-exclusivity.  The District Court’s decision requires the Federal Reserve to revise its regulations to consider only incremental authorization, clearing and settlement costs in determining the level of interchange fees, as well as require two unaffiliated networks for routing transactions for each authentication method (PIN and signature).  The Federal Reserve has appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the “Appellate Court”) and the District Court has issued an order staying its decision pending this appeal.  As a result, the Federal Reserve’s debit interchange regulations remain in effect until the appellate process is completed.  The Appellate Court has granted a motion to expedite the Federal Reserve’s appeal and a decision is expected in 2014.  If the District Court’s ruling is upheld, the Federal Reserve would be required to revise its regulations in accordance with the ruling. It is not clear at what level the Federal Reserve would set the interchange fees, although, based on the decision, the level of interchange fees likely would be significantly reduced. 16Table of ContentsThe CFPB and FSOC were both created under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The CFPB has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, although it is not clear whether and/or to what extent it will regulate broader aspects of payment card networks.  The FSOC is tasked with identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems that are “systemically important”.  If MasterCard were designated “systemically important”, it would be subject to new risk management regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities.  New regulations could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements.  Also, a “systemically important” payments system could be required to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve or another federal agency for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system.  These developments or actions could increase the cost of operating our business and may make electronic payment transactions less attractive to card issuers, as well as consumers.  This could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. If issuers, acquirers and/or merchants modify their business operations or otherwise take actions in response to this legislation, the Federal Reserve’s regulations and/or any revised rules that have the result of reducing the number of debit or prepaid transactions we process or the network fees we collect, the Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  In order to successfully compete in such an environment, we and our customers would each need to adjust our strategies accordingly.We entered into an agreement to settle the current U.S. merchant class litigation that, among other things, requires us to not restrict U.S. merchants, subject to certain conditions, from surcharging credit card transactions, which could impact the use of electronic payments and result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes and could in turn materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  We have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the United States, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using MasterCard products instead of other means.  As part of the terms of the settlement of the U.S. merchant class litigation entered into by the Company in October 2012 (which has received final court approval), the Company and Visa have modified their no-surcharge or comparable rules to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations (including ensuring that MasterCard or Visa cardholders are not unfairly subject to surcharging relative to cardholders of competing credit card networks such as American Express, Discover and PayPal, should those networks enforce rules that restrict surcharging).  It is possible that over time U.S. merchants in some or all merchant categories may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change, which could make credit card programs less desirable to consumers in the United States.  In the event that such merchants surcharge credit cards, this could result in consumers having a less favorable view of our products and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. New regulations or other regulatory activity with respect to the payments industry in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations (or impact pending regulatory proceedings) in other jurisdictions or of other products.  Regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. Consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions.  For example, the December 2007 European Commission decision with respect to cross-border interchange fees could also lead to additional competition authorities in European member states commencing investigations or proceedings regarding domestic interchange fees or initiating regulation.  The General Court’s judgment in May 2012 upholding the European Commission’s decision has increased the possibility of such actions, as well as the possibility of an adverse outcome for us in related and pending matters.  Similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product.  For example, regulations affecting debit transactions (such as the Federal Reserve's rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Act) could lead to regulation of other consumer products (including credit).  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payment services in certain countries. As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involving other products, affecting our business.  These include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements.  Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect.  Either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 17Table of ContentsGovernment actions preferring or protecting providers of domestic payment services in certain countries may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.  Governments in some countries, such as China, Russia, Ukraine and India could act (or have acted) to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or may otherwise create (or have created) and support its own national provider.  This action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  As an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies.  Such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers.  Our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed.  This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand.  The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  We are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and other devices are used.  In particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations.  Regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years.  See “Business-Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation.  Examples include:  •Anti-Money Laundering and Economic Sanctions - We are subject to AML laws and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act in the United States, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including  restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the SDN List. We have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable AML and OFAC sanctions requirements.  We take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with OFAC sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the SDN List.  However, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system.  Activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customer's association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction.  Any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and/or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. •Retail Payment System Regulation - Authority of regulators in several countries to regulate certain aspects of payments systems under which MasterCard operates could result in obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards.  Such obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions provide oversight of payment systems.  Moreover, if this oversight is used to provide resources or preferential treatment or protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, it could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A, with respect to government actions which may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries.  •Issuer Practice Legislation and Regulation - Our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to issuers and more generally to banks and other financial institutions, which impact us as a consequence. Existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers and thereby directly impact our business and transaction volumes.•Regulation of Digital Transactions - The U.S. Congress and some states continue to consider regulatory initiatives relating to digital areas, including cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy.  Congress may also consider additional legislation to legalize and regulate Internet gambling.  If implemented, any such regulation could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes.  Increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues and materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Finally, failure to 18Table of Contentscomply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation.   Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards and devices issued and could increase our costs.  We are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business.  These regulations could result in negative impacts to our business.   Due to recent account data compromise events at large, U.S.-based retailers, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world.  Regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may require changes to  our data  practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information.  Failure to comply with the these laws and regulations  could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation.  Any additional, or changes to, regulations in these areas (as well as the manner in which such laws could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring and the development of information based products and solutions.  In addition, these regulations may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue.  Any of these changes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  We are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.  In the event we are found liable in any of these material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the United States.  Any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  Potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments.  Potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the United States, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments.  This could adversely impact our results of operations.  See also Note 17 (Income Tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, 