If we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats.  Our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth.  We also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations.  A number of these new entrants rely principally on the Internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 22Table of ContentsDisintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. As the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including:•Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process.  For example, merchants could process (and in some cases are processing) transactions directly with issuers.  Additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers.  Large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us.   •Regulation such as PSD2 in Europe may disintermediate us by enabling new third-party processors and other service providers opportunities to route payment transactions away from our network and towards other forms of payment. •Although we partner with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that leverage our technology, platforms and network to deliver their products, they could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete in the digital economy.•Competitors, customers, technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our switched transaction and payment offerings.  These products could replace our own processing and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. •Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services.  Our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. In order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our Mastercard-branded cards and enabled payment devices, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products.  In order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts.  Over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure.  The demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth.  We may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives.In the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers if they require terms that we are unable or unwilling to offer, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry.  Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers.  In addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment.  Our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.  These factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.Rapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our overall business and results of operations or limit our future growth. The payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways:•Technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce and cryptocurrency and block chain technology, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services.  Moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of Mastercard products.23Table of Contents•We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies.  The inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact Mastercard offerings.•Our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to EMV, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes.•Our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts.•Our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties.  We have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement.  Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees.•Our ability to develop new technologies and reflect technological changes in our payments offerings will require resources, which may result in additional expenses.•We work with technology companies (such as digital players and mobile providers) that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers.  Our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us.We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.Information Security and Service DisruptionsInformation security failures or breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. Information security risks for payments and technology companies such as Mastercard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties.  These threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure.  These threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches.Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks.  Our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations.  In addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control.  We routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks.  Because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks.  Additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers.To date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches.  However, future attacks or breaches could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services, which in turn could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises.  Such attacks or breaches could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties.  In addition, they could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to Mastercard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our 24Table of Contentscustomers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities.  If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded.We maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage (each reviewed by our Board of Directors and its Audit Committee), and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks.  We also periodically test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities.  Despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer material breaches and resulting losses in the future, or that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover all losses.  Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of Mastercard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities.  As a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.  As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  Any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our overall business and results of operations. Our transaction processing systems and other offerings may experience interruptions as a result of technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events.  Our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems.  Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network.  Inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets.  If one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services.  Although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks, because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially adversely affect our overall business and our results of operations.Financial Institution Customers and Other Stakeholder RelationshipsLosing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest financial institution customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. Most of our financial institution customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers.  Our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services.  Accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us.In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest financial institution customers.  Loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  Exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues.  In addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors.  Such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned.  A significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.25Table of ContentsConsolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. The banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past.  Consolidations have included customers with a substantial Mastercard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor.  If significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects.  In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business.  Consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers.  These developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.Our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and, in many jurisdictions, their ability to effectively manage or help manage our brands.While we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their respective relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services.  We do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products.  Each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features.  In addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers.  As a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them.  In turn, our customers’ success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence.  If our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Settlement and Third-Party Obligation Risk” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to how we guarantee certain third-party obligations for further discussion.With the exception of the United States and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using Mastercard, Maestro and Cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors.  Because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries.  We also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business.  If our customers’ actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations.Merchants’ continued focus on acceptance costs may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and increase our incentive program costs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Merchants are important constituents in our payments system.  We rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to continue to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices.  We also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud.  In the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope and influence.  We believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including Mastercard.  Some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that Mastercard has been defending, including the U.S. merchant litigations.  See our risk factor in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees.  The continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings.Certain larger merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices.  We also make payments to certain merchants to incentivize them to create co-branded payment programs with us.  As merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives.  Additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer.26Table of ContentsOur work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. As we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments.  These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:•Governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies.  Changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services.  •Our work with governments subjects us to U.S. and international anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.  A violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact.  •Working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government.  Any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.Settlement and Third-Party ObligationsOur role as guarantor exposes us to risk of loss or illiquidity. We are a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of:•principal customers, which are customers that participate directly in Mastercard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate customers•affiliate debit licenseesIn this capacity, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity:•We may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons.•If a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of Mastercard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss.•Although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds.Our gross settlement exposure for our brands was approximately $37 billion as of December 31, 2016.We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day (including the availability of our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program) and we are able to seek assignment of underlying receivables from a failed customer and may charge customers for settlement losses incurred during Mastercard’s ordinary course activities.  We also minimize the contingent risk of a settlement failure using various strategies, including monitoring our customers’ financial condition, their economic and political operating environments and their compliance with our participation standards.  However, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited.  As a result:•Concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business and liquidity.  •Even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.27Table of ContentsFinancial institution customers in general are directly and indirectly impacted by economic conditions in global financial markets.  These conditions subject us to risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees.  For more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices, see Note 19 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, 