 Everybody welcome back to Smart Robots Review the show reviews robotics and other fantastic tech from around the world I'm your host Elias, and this is my co-host Elise for this unboxing segment.. hi Elise ... very talkative as usual Right - so today We'll have another very special unboxing for you. My friends over at Gearbest.com a great online retailer They have sent me this amazing robotics kit to test and I'm thrilled Thank you Gearbest for providing it so without any further delay. Let's get unboxing... So -laughter- What is this? This seems to be a box... , it's got a power button.. Oh what does that symbolize ? Oh, I think that is ... There's a Chinese company called Xiaomi I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing correctly, and I think that's their symbol. Okay well But they make a lot of great products and is one the great companies of the companies in the world... yeah Yeah, I think this could be the box. .. I don't know but definitely has a power button Printed Brand-new So yeah, what do we have here? I have no idea what this is either. This could be another well This could be .. these are servos There's a servo motor Okay, we'll find out This will take too long let's just speed it up okay? Alright good, so we're back So I have the MI Robot Builder Rover robotics kit It says by MITU M-I-T-U So I don't know ... a lot of pieces I can't tell how many pieces If you lose one ... you can have this space right here you can see Okay if you can't see into that Take my word for it No, it's gonna. Have a very sad face on so a lot of instructions They are not in English Eeeek but there isn't really much language. That's necessary here look at it basically folding origami Well not exactly, but it is like a it's not Lego. What is this like a Lego set? ... the pieces all very well organized The manual is definitely picture easily nicely organized illustrated by colors and by step by step So I guess that's what I would expect Seems like a lot of steps when you step so yeah Let's go to alternative builds Okay, so you can build one thing, heres 100 steps ... 104 , 108, 118, its this.. its awesome, isnt that great.. oh i see now how that works yes... And It's got .... ok just reading the international symbols for Bluetooth, cell phone, assembly and a star because it's cool.. . I don't know So it must have an application, I mean they have an application download Bluetooth connectivity, so you're using your cell phone to connect, okay, yeah So how many parts do we say 123 wait a minute we're starting over yes, so it's 100 124 steps to build the big rover guy And then it starts over with another build Well it's it's good more bang for your buck or more action We got it, and uh I think it starts over again today even more another build So many pages...ok, this is a very exciting episode You're just watching me flip through pages here, so this is all very authentic behind the scenes type stuff, its real cant find this stuff anywhere else... we didn't Photoshop anything so there's another build, so there's at least three builds that you can do create alternate builds out of this kit so that's great, so let's look at the parts I can think of these out yet, but um a Lot mark color-coded seems to be a couple of servos right here power supply micro-Controller is yeah yeah, so so you're connecting So I expect All these to connect here So let's say you can go to www.mi.com Okay, probably for more information, and they have a phone number here. Okay, so maybe I got this wrong. Maybe it's Maybe it's not Xiaomi maybe its this is the company (MITU) I don't know if MITU is the company or not. I'm gonna have to confirm all this oh The mystery, but I'm excited I mean look look at how cool. This will be right they can't wait Alright, so place your bets again. We don't endorse any gambling of the show, but just for the fun of it How long do you think it will take me to build this... ? five hours .. five hours? What I'm thinking okay, let's to sell say my own, I'll say three hours, it'll be like up here maybe The timer five hours later five hours later, okay, so three hours Yeah, I say three hours if I expendable oh good, thank you capable Yeah, okay even the quick Quick Good all right so you were I'm sure you guys having a lot of fun watching this this has been another very unscientific unboxing With a Elise... , thank you So if you have any feedback, questions about this amazing and boxing video you can leave them down below? And as always I just want to hear from you or just say hi if you want or not and see how much you love the show or just hello to me instead... or yeah just say hello to Elise.. Yes, so leave leave the comments below for Elise and I and until next time, thank you for watching... Smart Robots Review... techno-dancing... Cut cut 