 Can you believe that Fixies are Such itty-bitty creatures? Even when they're magnified It's hard to see their features. They’re tiny, infinitesimal, So small it makes you doubt. But if you meet a Fixie, please, Don’t let their secret out! The Robot Did I already tell you what I'm hoping you'll get me for my birthday present? Yes, honey! Only a thousand times or so. A Robotozoid R-300 would just be the greatest! With “mega-vision”. I want it, I really do! I do! Well, tomorrow you'll find out. But now it's time to sleep, Tom Thomas. Wow! That is one great present! And we got Tom Thomas absolutely zero for his birthday. We're just terrible friends! So, how does this robot work? OK! So, let's give this a try, shall we? First, we'll take a walk. And how does he have any idea where the robot is going? I can tell you. One of the robot’s eyes is a video camera. The robot sends the picture to the screen on the controller so the player can see where robot is going. Yeah! And that's just one thing they know how to do! A robot is a smart machine that can do very difficult or dangerous work for humans. With its strong metal arms a robot can move heavy objects, or put together parts to build cars and other machines. Robots are often sent into outer space or to the bottom of the ocean to help scientists. There are also robots that can understand  what people are saying, and robots that can talk and even make jokes! Just like people! I've got it. Now let's turn you around! What was that? Ah, look… You know… He destroyed him! Nolik, stop! You were playing with that, right? You think Tom will notice? I know what you're doing all night. I’m off to bed. I'll get him to work. I'll stay up until I do. - Simka, let's try and… - No, we're going to need some help. When your TV has broken, When your cellphone has croaked, Your laptop's barely working, The kettle's had a stroke, Don’t ask us where we’re going, For it’s known far and wide That any kind of problem Is clearer from inside. One, two, three - Tideesh! Inside we’ll be - Tideesh! To fix what’s wrong - Tideesh! Till it runs strong! In gadgets and devices Our work will never end, Appliances are fickle, They need a loyal friend. At morning, noon, and midnight Of every single day When there is an emergency You know we’re on our way! One, two, three -  Inside we’ll be ! All day and night  We fix things right! One, two, three -  Inside we’ll be! All day and night  We fix things right! We live to keep on working, And work for us is fun. So we’ll just keep on working Cause our work’s never done. And deep inside of gadgets If you look when it’s dark You might just see us race around Like multi-colored sparks. One, two, three - Tideesh! Inside we’ll be - Tideesh! To fix what’s wrong - Tideesh! Till it runs strong! One, two, three - Tideesh! Inside we’ll be - Tideesh! All day and night - Tideesh! We fix things right! One, two, three - Tideesh! Inside we’ll be - Tideesh! To fix what’s wrong - Tideesh! Till it runs strong! One, two, three - Tideesh! Inside we’ll be - Tideesh! All day and night - Tideesh! We fix things right! Wow! You got it! We need to hide! A Robotozoid R-300! I can't believe it! Well, happy birthday to you, Tom Thomas! I'm sorry, Tom Thomas. Last night your robot, you know, I broke it. Dad, it works perfectly! Don't you see? I'm so proud of you, you fixed it! I couldn't fix it at all. I tried everything. Oh, you wont to tell me that the robot fixed itself? What a joker! Mom, Dad, thanks so much! I love it! And how about thanking us? I should have known that it was you who fixed the robot! - Happy birthday! - Happy birthday! They take care of our machines: Irons, phones, and toasters, MP3s and TV screens, Even rollercoasters. Without them clocks stop ticking, Without them lights go out! But if you meet a Fixie, please, Don’t let their secret out! Friction Tom Thomas! That door of yours squeaks terribly! Yeah, and it's not easy to open either. Well, that's because the hinges are rubbing.  That's why your door is not working right. How can I fix it? Just reduce the amount of friction. - How? - With some oil on the hinges. I can do it for you because I've got a pack-o-mat. Alright. Simka, can I help you? Sure you can! Wear the pack-o-mat, all right? Friction is the force that tries to stop something from sliding or rubbing smoothly against something else. Rubbing can make things wear out quickly if there is a lot of friction. If you want less friction, you need to put something on the parts that rub against each other. Like oil. There are special kinds of grease used to keep clocks and wheels turning smoothly, and for skis, a special kind of wax can be used to make them go even faster. That's it! Now the top hinge. It’s all done! Go ahead and check how it's working. It's not squeaking! I told you! You guys are the best! - I've got to go. - Go where? I'm going to go sledding! Maybe you'll take me with you? Sorry, Nolik. You don't have a sled to ride on. I'll see you later! Simka, should I grease the saucer? What for? It will slide down the hill just the way it is. OK then. Wait here for me, Nolik. I’ll be back real soon with a surprise for you. Yeah! Oil is slippery! I know what I'll do! Wow! Talk about no friction! Hey! Any one? Help, help! Simka! Nolik? Are you alright? Just stay where you are, I’ll be right there! - Papus! - Papus, help us, please! Who called for me? Help is on the way! Hey, what are you up to? - Grandpus, stay away from here! - You'll fall over! What did you say? Stay where you are! What happened here? I poured some oil on the table. - Why did you do that? - To reduce... friction. That's brilliant! Nobody move! I know exactly what to do! And what was the problem you had with the friction? I want to see all of this oil gone in five minutes. Engineers are in a constant battle with the force of friction. They want less friction so that cars will run faster, and their parts will wear out less quickly. But just imagine what the world would be like if all of a sudden there was simply no friction at all! Everything would start slipping out of our hands and falling off the table. Knots would untie themselves. And that's not the half of it! Cars wouldn't be able to run without friction either. Wheels would spin around and around in one place unable to grab onto the road. We wouldn’t even be able to walk! Because when we walk, we move forward by pushing off the ground with our feet. And how can we do that without friction? We can't! So now I think you can see why it's not so bad to have a little bit of friction in our lives! We cleaned it! But it's still so stinky! Nolik, I completely forgot! I promised you a surprise. Look! What is it? I made you your very own saucer for sledding. That's great! Only… what good is this thing without snow? Nolik, hey! Look at what I've got for you! Snow? Yeah! Is it real snow? Really? Yep! Now you've got your very own hill to sled on! This is great! What an awesome surprise! And you don't need oil to make it go quickly! 