 Everybody welcome back to Smart Robots Review today We have an unboxing for you a very special unboxing and I am joined with my new co-host for unboxing, ...Elise All right, so I got today something pretty special from one of my favorite robotics toy companies ever Spin Master the brand-new Meccano M.A.X. So I'm very excited. I've been wanting to look into this robot for a long time ok well since it was released, and Very happy that Meccano is allowing me to Take a closer look at this Awesome robot and I have the feeling this will be... From my research... this will be one of the better robots of the year (2017). Let's see if it exceeds my expectation so I'm still unwrapping! it's too much Lets see what we got here... I'm gonna snap my fingers and everything will be organized perfectly Ok good ok so ok let's do it again It's all magically organized what do we have here? What a book construction manual ok it says Its just (ages) 10 and up. That's good. That's probably because you have a million little pieces here. It should be higher though because I might just do this and go.. gingle-bells gingle bells Instruction manual yabba-dabba-doo it looks pretty Pretty simple it's got colored illustrations Yellow blue black ... its organized. How many pages is How many steps, let's just say that sixty six steps That's part of the fun of it. No. Its maybe sixty or sixty six steps then after you assemble it you have to connect to the computer And download software -Laughing- okay, so what we have you well, let's just go through all the stuff so what we ended up with we have the The servos here the mortars 39 pages more motors here , okay... This is the brain of the operation Max It looks like complain looks cool when we have here I think there's the head parts for the wheels mini little screws here How many pieces overall D, which say We got this alright, so there's a stickers some stickers Let's see how many pieces... bored? no I'm tired. ah long day? Three Most sailors, oh here we go 332 parts 332 okay, that's the less than an Meccano Micronauts Oh ages 10 help and 332 pieces Super excited any idea. You know what it does I'm assuming from the head and the little lights you can't really see there, but there's like little dots I'm assuming that the light that I Should be holding it upside down nothing says oh Yeah, and I think at least for what I saw Meccano M.A.X tells jokes and learns from the interaction Oh, yeah, it's got two arms yeah The clue is The Lego art well not Legos they're huge this this is what the actual arms Definitely these are definitely parts of it Your personal smart robot at your service meet max the hilarious curious artificially intelligent learning robot with a big personality Max is the incredible smart robot you build and brings life with this amazing GI learning technology. I knew that Millions max learns about you, and the world around you truly become your personal robot. I can't wait. I think this is a social robot if it's into into that social robot category and that category will quickly become Crowded in the market because there's a lot of robots coming out right now This guy was here first, I think Cosmo was kind of fits into that category a little bit, yeah Max so much bigger he is friendly robot at least we know it's not gonna take for a world is the big eyes yes, yes Let's see I don't know I just I want to put him together already No Smiling alright so any bets of how long okay? Not gambling is that endorsed by this channel but uh? But how long do you think they'll take me to assemble this? I played with dolls. This is a sensor that out. We're gonna edit that out. I'll play with dolls All right well I'm super excited my guess is probably taking a couple hours to put it together All right Many parts a lot of fun to come this is a learning robot. That's gonna allow you to spend time talking to and playing with and Customizing it. I hear the face can be the digital face here it can be customized, so I'm excited to see that And it likes to talk to you So I love to see that I'd love to see I bet you love to see me count every single piece What booth over here gonna party NOLA, No? Actually yes Wait what are these funds for what three constructions? Cut cut cut anyway, okay, so Okay, well, thank you for joining us for this very unscientific unboxing Well, thank you for watching the unboxing yes, and at least thank you for joining me And until next time and until the next time boxing until we get to see what next to you. Thank you for watching small robot review 