 Its in a droid.. a BB Unit... Don't give up hope. He still might show up... whoever it is you are looking for ... Welcome to Smart Robots Review Everyone welcome back to Smart Robots Review the show that reviews robotics and other fantastic tech from around the world I'm your host Elias and it's great to have you here as always. Today we are talking about my buddies R2D2 and R2Q5 made by Sphero... the company that brought us BB-8 and the marvelous force band which we reviewed a few episodes back Sphere also makes other great robots, but today. We're gonna be talking about these two guys right here Of course you all recognize R2-D2 but have you ever seen R2-Q5 the less known mirror-image brother of R2-D2 So without any delay That's right So without any further delay, let's get started with the show So here it is the r2q5 droid by Sphero the mirror-image brother of r2d2 the famous Star Wars droid He has this beautiful black shiny finish that unfortunately attracts Fingerprints but besides that he looks awesome. He's got these copper accents and in every sense he does look identical in every other sense he looks identical to R2d2 Both of these droids r2d2 and r2 q5 have the authentic movement lights and sounds that were used to seeing from the movies They stand a little less than seven inches. Tall which is about twice the size of cute little kibble sized bb-8 (droid) So taking a closer look at these droids they both of them have these rubber treads here under their two main feet and that provides the traction that they need to move forward And if you ...lets see I'm going to activate his (third leg) he's got a the other third leg here It pops out this part here is all smooth doesn't have anything other than just a smooth surface and as You can see these spin And provide that movement they're both identical in that sense also, just keep in mind these tend to pick up every dust particle and If you have pets any dog here you may have on the floor so if you If you care about those things Make sure you operate them in a clean surface So I know what Sphero was thinking hey, we have now several of these Awesome Star Wars droids why not have one app that controls them all make it all nice and simple for our users And that's what they did... They came up with the brand new droids Application that you can use to control all of your Sphero droids taking a closer look at the app first you have the Ability to control the droid using the touchpad control its movement directly and you have Pre-programmed expressions that you can engage by touching any of these buttons here Which is great? These are awesome totally Give you that cinematic experience when you engage them the droids will respond with the right movement or sound or a combination of both I think having a authentic cinematic experience in these robots is key to capturing the Kids and adult hearts out there my favorite expression by far, and I'm sure you won't be surprised watch this They are still moving!! So besides using the application to control your droid You can use your force band as well so half the force band connected to r2 q5 here You can aim them and control his movements. Just like we did with the bb-8 droid in episode back So the new app also has the patrol option you can go into patrol mode of the application and these droids will Go about exploring their surroundings and responding to other droids So I tried this out with these guys and bb-8 In the VACUDOME! So the VACUDOME is a Test space I've created to test robotic vacuums It's nicely Isolated so these guys won't run off So I thought this would be a great place to try these guys out in patrol mode now Patrol mode is so much more improved in the new app because you can not only Control one droid, but you can connect to all three droids or all the Sphero droids Star Wars troy's you may have in your collection so here they are in the VACUDOME or let's rename it the ROBODOME... No problems here, although sometimes the droids do tend to get caught in Corners, I don't know why that's happening, but it does happen from time to time Let's move on to the next part of the app and here you can draw a path for the Droid to follow This feature was also available in the original app and it works great. It's very simple to use The next part of this app is the holographic mode or the virtual reality Exploration mode they have built in here. This is great You can depending on the droid that you have we would allow you to explore virtually a starship Now we know the r2d2 is Iconically connected to the Millennium Falcon so when you have an r2d2 droid it allows you to explore the Millennium Falcon virtually same thing with the R2-Q5 you can explore the Death Star II Which is was very nice - something different to see It can be a lot of fun as you go around exploring you discover characters and different equipment Last but not least is the watch which we note of the app here you can Watch your favorite Star Wars movie with the droids, and they will react to certain scenes of the movie Depending what they approve of what they don't ... So here we are R2-Q5 and R2-D2 Wonderful droids by Sphero, the makers of bb-8 and the force band Just great overall quality collectibles or toys and you can program them, just like the other sphere of droids, so there's some educational value to these as well I Highly recommend these guys if you can afford them and let's talk about the price for a minute There is a big price difference between these guys and of course bb-8 and some of the other droids R2d2 is available everywhere He retails 179.99 I've seen him on Amazon currently for $119 so if you want to get this guy this is the time to get him ...prices will fluctuate I'm sure but That's a good price for this amazing little droid R2-Q5 is not available everywhere. He's only available at certain outlets. I've only seen them at Best Buy He retails for 199.99 big price difference And his price may fluctuate as well in the holiday so if you want him He may be available only at Best Buy as far as I know Also these devices do connect to the application and the force band via bluetooth nice reliable connection. I like that and Again, they're just a quality device That's sure to please children and adults alike Love the Animations.. But the opinion that matters the most is always your opinion So I'd love to hear from you guys what you thought about these droids if you're gonna go and run to the store and get them so leave your feedback and comments down below and until next time thank you for watching smart robots review You 