 This is a secret lLocation in LA for the biggest gathering of the r2 builder's This is what's out in the street way more inside!  This is r2d2 building paradise This is Will. He makes the cutest robots. She can't go in the bb-8, can she? Will you're my hero of r2d2 and BB-8 building It's totally awesome Will you are a genius Nicki also by the way Where's your how is your million-dollar dome? It's outside. Okay, let's go see that one All right I started this ten years ago with my daughter And this is daughter number two because number one grew too tall and too big to fit This is my favorite R2, always was and still is And they this is the famous Mike Senna here, who organizes the secret R2LA meeting Super secret! Now you got to post everything. It started like 14 years ago right. That's grown quite a bit. Yeah of course I'll post that. You're so famous you only go on the Tested channel, I can never get an interview from you That's from Willss wife Nikki the million dollar r2 deom  It's little crystals put on R2-D2 In 2008, I started him. And predictably, you know what's happened, you ran out of money to buy the stones But I think I can help a little bit here yeah, so these are called comet, and it's basically a Chrome rhinestone It's solid silver You can see the difference. This one it just the flare is all white But these are the clear stones. Oh, OK This is Sapphire. yeah originally I was thinking having the dome done in it's called black diamond It's more of a gray stone You can kind of see it the little tiny cracks are actually done in the black diamond.. It has like a little grey look to it, but then I found the Comet, and it's so spectacular that I wanted to do it that way you can see the black diamonds a little bit better on that one right there All the cracks are gonna be in the black diamond. Devil is in the details you know And then we've got R2-D2s up the wazoo That's mine In a sea of R2-D2s and R2 something else. I don't know all the names All colors and shapes, so there's more over there This one is cool A few Mouse Droids Mice Droids? Here is mine, the Steampunk one Oh sorry, you guys are filming? Some serious people here. Luca's team is here filming And I got my own time in front of the camera Where is Doug? He was hiding somewhere. I can't find him. He has a turret of tools I found the man: Doug. Okay, so go slow, okay? I need to get each of them With the name The claw and the computer arm And I have no idea what those tools are, some welding tools? The hyper-drive and the laser I haven't gotten to the gadgets yet If I can do all of your gadgets, then that's it, nobody will fit anymore Like the Purell thing Doug can you do this again? So the air for the puff of smoke Doug is the one that made those elevators This is the famed Mike Senna, again Running ahead of us Whao I got pulled apart to do some live troubleshooting on a friend's Vantech speed controller I suspect the rectifier It's bad On that board I would have suspected a lot of other things This thing or that thing are these things, but no turns out to be this perfectly good looking stuff, so It sure cannot work a bad rectifier That's for a full-size bb-8 yeah? Yeah, it's a hamster drive All right, so, you have a big weight at the bottom. Yeah, there's weight here in this a weight inside of us this Omiwheel? I like this design, that ought to work Even my daughter came and she said she was proud of me, this is only the first time she's said it 