 Oh Hi there Anyone know what this robot is called and what it can really do Stay with me and you might just be impressed Everyone welcome back to Smart Robots Review, the show that reviews consumer robotics and fantastic tech from around the world I'm your host Elias, great to have you here and as always We have a new robot to talk about This is the ozobot bit 2.0 Funny little name o-zo-bot made by company called Evollve with two L's I like it! so it's a micro robot Clearly a S.T.E.M. toy or teaching tool, science, technology engineering and mathematics But what can it really do? Alright, so I have a white piece of paper here with a black line drawn across it I'm going to turn on the Ozobot and place it at the beginning of the black line Watch as it follows the black line Not unlike industrial AGV robots that follow typically some colored line on the floor or a cable or some magnets interesting But there's more to this. Allright now I have three more lines on the piece of paper a blue green and red one I'm going to turn on the Ozobot again place on the blue line That's interesting it follows the line, and it shows a blue light on top So let's put it on the green one Same thing and Red I am assuming... there you go. Here's a red color so You guess it. The ozobot can read colors But how does it do it? Let's take a closer look Okay, so here we have under the OZOBOT five lights and without getting too technical this is actually an array of photo transistors that are picking up light within the visible spectrum the middle sensor is a Sensor that can recognize colors, the rest of the lights provide contrast for the OZOBOT to tell where the lines are That's interesting, but there's a lot more to the OZOBOT than just following lines and reading colors We can actually give it commands - you can program it using its own color code language - and since it was designed for children eight and up you can imagine that actually programming it is not all that difficult Let's start by looking at the applications that are available for the OZOBOT bit in the App Store and the Google Android store - first with the OZOBOT app So this app is used to calibrate the OZOBOT to its optimum Settings so that it can recognize colors Accurately and perform as expected So you go to the OZOBOT tune-up Hold the power button for two seconds Until there's a white blinking light. Place it in the middle and press the calibrate sensors button and you can see that right away it Flashed green, which means it completed the calibration of its sensors let's go back to The main function of this application which is called ozodraw Here, I'll click start there is three choices. Let's start with FreeDraw and remember what I showed you earlier with the lines we have a blue line a red line green and black I'm gonna place the OZOBOT on the blue line look at that it sees blue Same thing the red green and black excellent Alright, so now. Let's clear this out It's very easy, and lets add some complexity, so I'm gonna do a black line I'm going to add now a color code. I'm going to tell it to move fast And then I'm going to Continue the black line. It is poorly drawn watch.. we are to place to the OZOBOT here.... It's going to read the code and move fast - look at that... Love that ! Alright so then let's add more complexity. Let's add a Spin move over here and I'm going to even change the color of the line make it turn and then go over here There we go And I'll start It's gonna move fast. It's going to change the in main color because it sees blue. It's going to spin now We have reviewed other robots that come with applications with block based type of programming easy to use - easy to learn now the Autobot bit 2.0 takes this concept into a new level with a web-based program called OzoBlockley Which is a free - easy to access - using any browser? Editor that allows your child to learn Programming concepts using the block programming method at a pace they can handle Let me show you what I mean Okay, so let's start with a simple program So we have the different levels here Okay, so this is interesting. Let's let's do some kind of movement just with zigzag So we'll pick a zigzag movement Will tell the ozobot to move in a zigzag pattern and pick the speed s Then to download the simple program to be also bad, and this is where it gets unique the ozobot Receives the commands via pulses of light you place the ozobot on the screen The commands are downloaded That's so cool, and then to execute the command you can place it on any surface. You double click the power button and There you go, it's executing his zig-zag pattern Ok so so far. We're barely scratching the surface of how powerful also block it can be with ozobot. Let's do another quick example how about we add change the light on top of the Ozobot to green and a pause okay, how about 2 seconds and? and Let's add a spin to the left and maybe some police lights Oh will can pop it right between those two steps ok let's try this out This green and it's moving in a zig-zag pattern It's going to pause for 2 seconds Then the police light pattern and then a spin Nice. Now so far we've been exposed to sequential type programming very simple programming, but I will show you why OzoBlockley and OZOBOT can be more effective and take your children's learning to the next level OzoBlockley will introduce your kids to loops and logic, creating variables and setting up functions commonly used in every mainstream Programming language and something you will not find as a feature in the applications of other robots we have reviewed so far And if you need help, there's plenty of help built-in Examples you can access right from the application and more resources are available on the website Whether you are a kid playing with OZOBOT and this is your favorite toy Or a parent working with your child to teach them the basics of programming Or a teacher who is focused on using this in an organized classroom learning effort I promise I will not get too technical here But for those of you that are interested... At the heart of the OZOBOTbit 2.0 there's an ATMEL AT-Mega 328 A high performance, yet power efficient 8-bit RISC architecture Microcontroller with 32 kilobytes of flash memory and a maximum clock of 20 megahertz now I don't know if EVOLLVE (maker of OZOBOT) is running it at 20 megahertz or not they could not provide me that information But it's interesting at least to know also it has a lithium polymer very small battery That charges relatively quick and (the charge) lasts about an hour the twin micro motors give the ozobot bit 2.0 a speed range between 15 to 85 millimeters per second So don't expect to break any land (speed) records, but the drive is precise and relatively quiet The OZOBOTbit 2.0 that I used today came in a starter pack that includes markers a Calibration sheet, a reference sheet for the codes some activities and accessories to accessorize the OZOBOT including couple skins that look like this So what we have here is a micro sized Marvel. Combined with its applications the OZOBOT bit 2.0 is a Great empowering or teaching tool for young minds to learn the basics of computer science Be exposed to physics and mathematics concepts It is very reasonably priced at about 50 to 60 dollars It comes with some necessary accessories here Even if you don't have a tablet you can use a piece of paper and the markers to take advantage of its teaching capability so You know what I think about the OZOBOT bit 2.0 What do you guys think? The opinion that always matters is your opinion! So please let me know in the comments below what you guys thought about today's episode what you thought about the OZOBOT bit 2.0 If you do have one I would love to hear how you use them and how you like it or how you maybe don't like it. The same company also makes another robot called the EVO I'd love to take a look at that one as well certainly They did a great job with the OZOBOT bit 2.0 Anyway ... until next time... Thank you for watching, Smart Robots Review! You 