 [MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER 1: I am very excited to introduce you to Simone Giertz. Her name's spelled differently, but that's how you pronounce it. Simone is Swede-born and a descendant of Ericsson founder, Lars Magnus Ericsson. How cool is that? Simone describes herself as the Queen of Shitty Robots, Breaker of Transistors, Mistress of Malfunction, Mother of Terrible Inventions-- however, I really prefer Inventor-tainer, coined by a Redditor, supposedly. She explored engineering physics in college before finding her true calling on YouTube. I'm not sure why, but her family calls her Pim. You can check out Simone's terribly brilliant creations on her YouTube channel. Googlers, please welcome Simone to Google. [APPLAUSE] SIMONE GIERTZ: Thank you. I think that this is the first time that I've heard that YouTube is my true calling. [CHUCKLE] SPEAKER 1: Well, it is for now. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. No, I mean, it's legit. I'm just like, have I said that? [CHUCKLE] SPEAKER 1: Now you have. Yeah. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah, sure. Yeah. YouTube is my true calling now. SPEAKER 1: The YouTube team is clapping wildly [INAUDIBLE]. SIMONE GIERTZ: Crying, [INAUDIBLE] so emotional. SPEAKER 1: So, before talking about Shitty Robots, I'm completely jealous about your recent vomit comet trip that you included on your YouTube channel as part of your astronaut training. Describe how it works. And what I'm most interested in is what it's like that moment you become weightless. SIMONE GIERTZ: Mmm. So a little bit of background story, I took a month-long break from Shitty Robots because I really want to go to space. I'm 100% serious about it, and I actually got funding from Google to do it from Google's Making & Science Team. So thanks for that. But I got to go on the Vomit Comet, a zero-g flight, on the last episode. So, basically, it's this airplane that does parabolas. So it goes up and down really fast. So you get to experience what it's like to be weightless. And I was so-- first of all, I had to pee really badly, which took-- cause you're both worried about vomiting and about peeing at the same time. So it was a lot of body fluids to keep in check. I feel like 25% of my brain power went to that. But it was the craziest feeling because you're laying down on the floor. And, first, you experience an increased amount of g-forces because you're accelerating. And then you just get lighter and lighter. And it feels exactly as if you pictured meditating. You'd start levitating because you just very slowly float up. And it actually made me really sad because while it felt like the wildest and weirdest thing I'd ever experienced. It also felt so natural because I was like, yeah. Of course this is something that humans do. And I think every human being dreams about flying and what it's like to be flying. And it was just like, yeah-- this is-- yeah. This is what I'm made for. And then you get back to gravity, and you're like, no. I'm bound to this big dirt ball. SPEAKER 1: Gravity sucks. SIMONE GIERTZ: Gravity is the biggest downer on planet Earth. Yeah, I've used that joke before. SPEAKER 1: We've got to work on no gr-- who's the No Gravity Team? There's got to be on in Google somewhere. So you talked your way into a job as a professional maker for a startup in the Bay Area. How hard was it to walk away from, basically, a real job, and find your way, and make a living on your own where you're consciously convincing your friends and family that it wasn't a huge mistake? SIMONE GIERTZ: That was not the way it happened. It was more-- because I did have a great job. I dropped out of college after a year. So I started studying physics, but I dropped out because I just felt it was a little bit too dry. And I really wanted to learn about electronics because I saw these different DIY projects that people were building. And I thought that they were super cool. And I remember being, like, I should go back to school for it? Or should I try and learn by my own? And what I decided on was, no, I should try and get a job in the field, so I can get paid to learn about it. So I got a job as a maker-in-residence inside a company that makes a micro-controller, or Arduino board, called the Blue Bean. And they're here in the Bay Area. And it was really great. The job was super fun, but I just wasn't very enthusiastic about it. And I decided to quit because I realized that I-- I've tried out a lot of different things. I've had a lot of different jobs. And it's like trying on different pairs of pants. And you're, like, ahh, these pants kind of work. But they're crawling up my butt a little bit. Or these ones are a little bit too short. And you're just trying out all these different jobs and work to see what fits you. And that was like, yeah! It's like right. I love what I'm doing. But it's, like, the setting of it doesn't really work. So it was actually that I quit my job not knowing what I was going to do. And I decided to move back to Sweden and to cut back on all of my costs. So I moved back with my mom. I lived on like half a gigabyte of data every month, you know? Yeah, it was rough. But all of this just-- and I'd try to work as little as I had just to make a living, just so I could free up a lot of time to spend on whatever I wanted and to pursue what I was enthusiastic about. And from that time that I freed up was where I started building these Shitty Robots. So, I mean, yeah. Maybe it was the way you said it. But my parents have always been very supportive and were like, yeah. Do whatever you want. It'll be fine. I think it's more been my brother. My brother was like-- I remember him, at some point, being, Simone-- he calls me the walking life crisis-- [CHUCKLING] --he's like, Simone, if you're ever going to do something great, you have to settle down on what you're going to do, or choose a field, and go for it, and spend more than a year on it. But I think it was-- yeah, it actually wasn't that hard of a decision. It would have been harder to stay. SPEAKER 1: Ah, cool. So you mentioned you don't have an engineering degree, but you've got creative ideas-- experiment and build stuff-- which sounds like engineering to me and probably a lot of people in the room. A maker for sure, do you see yourself in any way as a role model and stereotype-buster for girls interested in tech? SIMONE GIERTZ: You know, I struggle with that one. In part, I often get the question if I see myself as a role model for girls. And, in some way, what I hear is-- and I think there's something inherently wrong with it because it's like people have this perspective that, as a woman, you can only be a role model for girls. And people are always like, you're such a great role model for girls. And I think, actually, it's just as important for men to have female role models as for girls to have female role models. So, I mean, that's aside from me probably not being a great role model in many ways. [CHUCKLING] But I'm telling myself that people can cherry pick the good parts and exclude the bad parts. But, I mean, I hope. I mean, to me, it was also-- it was really important to see other-- it does get stronger when you see another woman or somebody you can identify a little bit more with doing the thing that you want to do. And it wasn't until I saw a woman giving a talk on hardware hacking that I was like, wait. If she can do it, I can do it, too, because you realize-- because I was always interested in building things and making things. But I never saw myself as somebody being interested in technology and electronics. And I think that's just because you've been brought up with the stereotype of, oh. This is the type of person that would be interested in it. And it takes seeing somebody who you can identify yourself with to be like, wait. This is all just bullshit. It doesn't make sense. Yeah. SPEAKER 1: So a lot of people who go down an engineering or maker path, they've taken something apart that they probably weren't supposed to. Or they've built something. So what's the first thing you took apart? What's the first thing you built that you remember? SIMONE GIERTZ: Oy. I just about to take this mic apart. The first thing I remember-- and a kind of cool project-- we had this old-- what's it called in English? Like-- satellite dish? You know when you're getting television? You know, television? [LAUGHTER] AUDIENCE: A satellite dish. SIMONE GIERTZ: A satellite dish-- like, the big parabola or the big thing you had on your house that was white. So we had one of those that we were going to throw away. And I was, like, that looks cool. And I turned it into a chair when I was nine. So I built up-- it was the most uncomfortable chair. [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: Did it get good reception, though? SIMONE GIERTZ: But you kind of slid out of it because it's very just round. So I built a little podium under it. I think that was the first. But I did also-- I remember I attempted to build a robot when I was seven or eight. And I had this grand idea what this robot would be. But all I got to was I got a block of wood, and I drilled a hole through the wood. And I put a stick through the hole. And it was a robot because if you wiggled one end of the stick, the other end would move, too. And I was like, yeah. I just built a robot. It wasn't that hard. What are people talking about? Like, whatever. It moves. SPEAKER 1: So what's been the response been to Toy Hackers, this partnership you have with GoldieBlox? And how'd that come about? SIMONE GIERTZ: To me, it's like a constant-- a lot of people think that I'm doing kids content because if you just see the little videos of my projects, I mean, it looks like it's something for kids. But then I'm just not very kid-friendly and my sense of humor. So I've been trying. And I constantly have-- I'm surrounded by disappointed parents all the time because they're like I just really want to be able to show this to my son, but I can't because you keep dropping the F-bomb, and the D-bomb, and the C-bomb, and all the bombs. No, I did not say that. Oh, my God. SPEAKER 1: Pretty much. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. SPEAKER 1: Pretty much. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. No. Yeah. So I'm trying to find ways in which I can give kids good content to watch or watch my videos. So I've been collaborating with GoldieBlox, which is this toy company that has a female heroine, and is this really cool inventor. And we did a Toy Hacker series. And they're also going to roll out censored versions of my videos, so kid-friendly versions, which I'm really excited about. So there would be kid-friendly versions living on their channel. So I can just be like, hey, parents, don't be upset with me. I've done my part of it. SPEAKER 1: Very cool. SIMONE GIERTZ: But, yeah. No, it's actually really nice because, as much as my content isn't that kid-friendly, when you have 10-year-olds write you and be like, hey. I built this thing inspired by this thing you did. You're like, I am so good. [LAUGHTER] You just get emotional from feeling so great about yourself. [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: So you kind of mentioned this with your brother. I'm not sure how you could have planned for the success you found online. Is having a master plan for your life or even the weekend coming up totally overrated? SIMONE GIERTZ: I mean, it really depends. So when I was younger, I always had like five-year plans. I was like the Russian economy. I was like this is what I'm gonna' do in the next five years, and then it never happens. So now I'm more-- I mean, I think it's like-- I try to not have a plan. So I've been doing this for 1 and 1/2 years. It's been happening pretty quickly. It was 1 and 1/2 years ago since I published my first Shitty Robot. And I've realized that when you kind of get dragged into this high-pace thing, it's hard because everybody wants you to have a plan. And I'm trying to-- because it really started as something that I did just because I was enthusiastic about it-- and I'm trying not to have a plan because I feel that, as soon as I have that, and I'm like, I'm going to do this. This is the trajectory. I feel like I'm going to kill my enthusiasm, and that's just going to kill it itself. I mean, I have long-term goals, like going into space. And I also want to go in a deep sea submarine. SPEAKER 1: That's covering the whole spectrum. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. So it's like really low and really high. Yeah, but I try not to limit myself, too. But, I mean, it all depends on what you-- I mean, I freak out whenever I feel that I'm cornered into something. So I think if I was, like, this is what I'm going to do, and I'm going to lock myself into it-- I mean, I've been really trying to not lock myself into any contracts or anything like that because I just want to keep on reminding myself that, if I wake up tomorrow being like I never want to put out another video, that's OK. SPEAKER 1: I think you should have YouTube channels involuntary-spaced travel where you just take random people, and you put them up in space, and see want happens. Anyway-- all right. So, like-- SIMONE GIERTZ: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no-- SPEAKER 1: --idea that popped into my head. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. SPEAKER 1: So like many YouTube creators, there's a blur between your personal life and your YouTube persona. I'm thinking, in particular, of your hilarious battle with the septic system of your houseboat, which is so funny. If you have not seen it, if you want to see true-- SIMONE GIERTZ: You're horrible. You're a horrible person. SPEAKER 1: It's so funny. [CHUCKLES] How do you protect your privacy, or you've totally given up? SIMONE GIERTZ: Mmm. I mean, for one, I just try to remind people that in real life as much as I fe-- I mean, I'm not acting like somebody else on my YouTube channel. But you're like a watered-down version of the YouTube because, when you're doing a video, you have 45 minutes of footage. And you just cut it out, and polish this little diamond, and turn it into a four-minute video. In real life, you're just a more boring version of that. But, I mean, it's hard because it's definitely a different type of--my mom's a TV host back in Sweden where I'm from. And she's been a TV host for the last 20 years. And it's a very different type of celebrity because people-- when you're on the internet, people know you more personally in a more informal setting. They don't really know the professional you. So it's definitely much more blurred. But I'm also like an open book. I don't have any secrets. I share everything. It's compulsive. I'm a compulsive over-sharer in many ways. And I'm fine with stories about me making a fool out of myself and sharing that. But I am really reluctant to show footage of my family or the people around me because I can take people being mean to me in the comments. But if I would have my sister in a video, and they'd be mean to her, I'd just stab my computer screen, I think. Yeah. SPEAKER 1: So I was interviewing a friend of yours, YouTuber Dianna Cowern, recently. And she said she has to block words like kitchen and ears from comments. Don't ask why. It's basically people are evil. SIMONE GIERTZ: She does get a lot of comments about her ears. It's so weird. SPEAKER 1: --think it's fair. SIMONE GIERTZ: I don't think I've ever gotten comments about my ears. And I'm like, are they boring ears? [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: So how do you deal with trolls? Or have you been blessfully not having to deal with that? SIMONE GIERTZ: So I've only put up one filter on my channel, and I made the mistake of telling people that I put up a filter. So I've seen so many creative spellings of dildo. [LAUGHTER] But I think that's-- yeah, that's probably the only one. I mean, I just hit half a million subscribers yesterday. SPEAKER 1: Woo-hoo! SIMONE GIERTZ: Yay. [APPLAUSE] SPEAKER 1: [INAUDIBLE] half a million in the room anywhere? Maybe? No? SIMONE GIERTZ: No. Yeah? Look at you. SPEAKER 1: You'll win steak knives. There you go. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. SIMONE GIERTZ: Oh, thank you. That's great. Umm, cool. Yeah. So, I mean, I definitely notice it. Like, as you grow, people get progressively meaner and meaner because, when it's small, it's just the people who sought you out and who really like it. But, as you grow, there's people who didn't really opt in, and they get very upset about you showing up in their feed. Or the worst is when a video trends on YouTube. So I locked myself in my bathroom for 48 hours. And that one trended on YouTube. And, when it does that, it's like you just have this little-- what do you call when you're fishing, and you just open up, and you just get all the weird sea creatures? You get all of it, all of it. I'm scared to talk about it 'cause I don't want to jinx it. But I've been weirdly spared from a lot of hate and, especially, being a woman on the internet, which tends to be worse. I mean, it's different YouTube channels. On the tested YouTube channel-- I work for another YouTube channel called "Tested". It's rougher or just more focused on my appearance and my sexual preferences, very relevant to the videos. But my channel has actually been really nice. And I don't really know what I've done or haven't done to deserve that. But, yeah. It's been surprisingly nice. SPEAKER 1: So maybe, on the positive side, you mentioned that a 10-year-old might say, hey. I was inspired to build something. So what's the sweetest, most memorable thing a fan has done that makes everything you're doing worth it? SIMONE GIERTZ: It's a lot. I mean, now I'm starting to get messages from people who have gotten into engineering school because they sought it out after seeing my videos, which feels really weird because you can put people on a different life trajectory. So that feels really like an honor to be able to do that. But I'm a sucker for getting packages, and people send me such nice things and projects that they've built. I actually had a guy named Stewart who fabricated this whole robot arm for me. And he made it out of custom aluminum. Everything was really polished. He put in video footage of him building it. I mean, it must have taken him a week to make it. And just the fact that somebody would spend that much time just to make you happy is pretty wild. Yeah. SPEAKER 1: Well, someone in the audience mentioned Patreon. So you ran into a bit of sponsor trouble that you talked about. What's been your experience with crowdsourcing financial support as another vehicle? What would you offer for other creators that want to go that path? SIMONE GIERTZ: So, if you don't know, there is a platform called Patreon There are multiple platforms on Patreon but where people can give monthly donations to different independent creators. And I think it's such a beautiful thing because it's really a democratization-- did I pronounce that right? SPEAKER 1: Yeah. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah, OK. Of content creation because, otherwise, it just makes it a lot-- there's something really sad, I find, about being an internet person because what it's all about is increasing your value as a billboard for brands. So you kind of sell your audience's attention and the trust that they have for you. And something about that feels really dirty. So having alternatives like Patreon is really beautiful, and people can go and support you directly. It's also really scary. I was pretty reluctant to start a Patreon because, otherwise, I can just be like I don't owe people anything. I feel like-- I mean, I don't owe them anything. But, for my Patreon supporters, I really feel that I'm owing them a lot. And it's a scary thing because the worst thing would be if people were disappointed in you 'cause it'd be like having 2,000 parents who are just like, Simone, we just expected more of you. [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: That's right. So I think there's some really cool stuff in our world right now that, if you go back in time, would blow people away. And I think one of those is a 3D printer. So, if you could go back in time with a 3D printer, what's a crazy thing you would build? Or maybe what have you built with a 3D printer that you think would blow people away? SIMONE GIERTZ: I actually made this thing-- this might be my best contribution to the world. Do you guys know Neti Pots? SPEAKER 1: Yeah. We'll need a backer on that. SIMONE GIERTZ: About 50%, yeah. I can't believe I'm talking about this. Net Pots-- it's like this weird-- my dad is an old hippie yogi dude. And he always had these Neti Pots. It's this little pot, and you poor water through your nose when you have a cold. It's really nasty. But it's very effective if you're sick. So I had a cold. And I was, like, I don't have a Neti Pot. What do I do? I have a 3D printer, so I made a little Neti Pot nozzle that goes on a regular bottle. It's the best thing I've ever made. It's a legit thing, and that's what I bring to people in medieval times. [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: Very useful. SIMONE GIERTZ: And them be like, we have no bottles. I'm like, oh, shit. [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: The hell with the plague. Neti Pots! Neti Pots! So what is your worst robot failure that was so bad that it didn't even rate being shitty? SIMONE GIERTZ: That's tricky. I mean, it's tricky to say. When people ask me what my shittiest invention is or my most useless, it's hard because I've skewed what shitty means because, to me, a Shitty Robot would be that worked really well or that worked poorly but did it in a very uninteresting way. I mean, the shittiest robot is the one that doesn't start. But, I mean, yeah. I think my shittiest invention-- I mean, I passed on a lot of ideas. So I start building them, and then I'm just like, no. This isn't going to-- it happens fairly rarely. But I think I've started building stuff, and then I'm like I can't go through with this. SPEAKER 1: What kind of causes that you start and then you stop, which we do all the time here? Things you just decide, it's not going to work? SIMONE GIERTZ: Either they're just too complicated, I can't do it in a time-frame that's worth doing it, or just that I don't think it's fun or relevant anymore. But I think probably the shittiest machine I've ever made-- it's a pun-- [LAUGHTER] --is the ass-wiping robot, probably. SPEAKER 1: That's pretty shitty. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. We actually filmed another video on it for "Tested". And I don't think we've published it. I don't think we're going to publish it because a lot of people were disappointed that I didn't-- so I did a butt-wiping robot. It's a toilet paper roll on a drill. And it just-- [LAUGHTER] --and people were so upset in the comments. They were like, Simone, you couldn't even have put some Nutella up there? This is not believable. [LAUGHTER] And we filmed a "Tested" video where we were like, OK. We need to put something that looks like poop in there. And then, halfway through, when you're holding this mannequin man, and you're just like-- [LAUGHTER] --I don't want this to be on the internet. [LAUGHTER] How did we end up here? [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: Yeah. And I think a mannequin is the only thing that would take that robot because that looked like it could be a torture device. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. There's no way I'd put my own butt in there. SPEAKER 1: Noo. No. SIMONE GIERTZ: And, I mean, I've had that idea for a long time, but I didn't know how to do it because I was like, I can't do it with anyone's real butt. And then I was like, I'll just buy a sitting mannequin. Yeah. He can't sue me. SPEAKER 1: I had a chance to interview Adam Savage several years ago and was struck by how down-to-earth he is. I like to call him an accidental celebrity. I really enjoyed your back and forth with Adam on the show "Tested" that you mentioned trying to work out the popcorn machine. Walk me through creating that video, especially the feeling you had when Adam's vacuum-formed hands that he created as part of this project [INAUDIBLE] arrived, and you had to turn into a robot. I almost feel like-- this is from Adam Savage, icon, pressure. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. It was really intimidating because he's, like-- I mean, I have no idea what I'm doing. And he really knows what he's doing, even though he wouldn't say so, I think. So we started working together about a year ago, now, a little bit more. And the first project we built was a popcorn helmet. So it was, like, a beer helmet. But, instead, it was two popcorn containers and two hands that fed you, so you don't have to use your own hands. And we collaborated on it. And he did the hand mechanism, and I got the package. I remember the first thing I did. I haven't told him this. The first thing I did it was I looked at the box. And I was, like, did he give a signature anyway? Like, could I get his autograph from here and just cut it out? I mean, I still-- I mean, now, it's a lot chiller with "Tested". But, in the beginning, I had the worst imposter syndrome and, especially, building stuff with him. And, before having met him, it was really scary because I was just sweating being like what if I don't get it together? Are they going to fire me? But, once you get to know him, he's the most devoted teacher and mentor. So whenever you don't know how to do something, it almost feels like it makes him happy. And he's, like, oh. I can explain this thing. And that just completely takes the edge off of my fear. Yeah. He's been great. I mean, I think it's all due to him just being very kind, just very kind. SPEAKER 1: Cool. That's just what he seems like on the other side of the glass. So you had a terrific segment, also, on Stephen Colbert's show recently-ish. What happened behind the scenes because you only get six minutes on television? But you'd, actually-- well, here, if you're in product group, you'll be terrified of any sort of live demo. It's the scariest thing you can do. You had multiple live demos that you'd brought with you. What was it like leading up to that six minutes that you can't do anything but do that six minutes and you're done? SIMONE GIERTZ: It was a lot of death thoughts, thoughts about death. No. I mean, the circumstances were pretty special. I was just about to move to San Francisco, so I had everything packed with me. And I'd been to LA for a YouTube event, and then I'd been to Vancouver to pick up my US visa. And then I did the red-eye from Vancouver to New York. And I came there, and I was on set for 10 hours, from early in the morning because they switched around the schedule. So I had 10 hours of having slept for three hours and just being super tired and really nervous. So it was actually pretty-- I mean, it is always painful. But I feel like that always-- I give a lot of talks. And, always, before I go on stage, I'm like why do I do this to myself? I always think that this is the time when everything is going to go wrong. But they were so kind. And, always when I do stuff like that, especially with somebody like Stephen Colbert, you try to remind yourself that he's one of the best in the world at doing what he's doing. And we share the responsibility of making it fun and interesting. So you're in really good hands is what I'm trying to remind myself of. But it's really scary because I brought four machines. And just making sure that all of them-- I mean, you know, yeah. Live demos, they never work. And just making sure that all of them would work reliably was really-- I was more worried about that than what I was going to say or do, but all the machines worked. I've had times when the machine doesn't start. Back in Sweden, I did a live kids show. Like five minutes before we go on stage, the robot arm that I used for the breakfast machine just broke down. And you're like what are you supposed to do? And that's your responsibility. But I just thought that, whenever it doesn't start, I'll just be like, shitty, right? [LAUGHTER] And then it's OK. SPEAKER 1: So this sort of ties into you went to Canada to come to the States and getting a visa. So Sweden makes these "Top Countries to Live in the World's" list frequently. So what attracted you to the United States and, specifically, San Francisco? SIMONE GIERTZ: So I lived in San Francisco two years ago when I had that maker-in-residence job. I just think it's a really fun place to live. And having a kind of weird job, in San Francisco, I don't feel weird. And so I'll call my field a little bit weird. But, here, it's like everybody's a unicorn. And I think that is really heartwarming. And, also, I just love paying a lot in rent. It's this weird thing I get a kick out of, you know? Yeah. SPEAKER 1: So got to ask a question about Ikea because Sweden. So, if could go into Ikea and get a debit card paid for by someone else-- you can buy anything you want, including the meatballs-- first of all, would you want to do that? Second of all, what would you build with anything you could buy at Ikea? SIMONE GIERTZ: I very rarely buy stuff at Ikea. But I have gotten away with a lot of times. I trick people that if you're Swedish, and you lose your passport, you can go to Ikea, and it works as a Swedish embassy. And you can get a new one. [LAUGHTER] But what would I build? Hmm. I mean, a project that I wanted to build that I could build out of Ikea cars is I want to have a couch that you can lay down on, and then you have a seatbelt that comes from the back. And you can pluck yourself into the couch. So you're seated down, and then you can just drive to the fridge. [LAUGHTER] I'd probably do that, yeah, for the very lazy person. SPEAKER 1: And what Swedish name would you give to that because all these-- I don't know. Is Ikea real Swedish words? Or is it just like-- SIMONE GIERTZ: It's real Swedish words. I'd prob-- call it-- [SPEAKING SWEDISH] SPEAKER 1: [SPEAKING SWEDISH] SIMONE GIERTZ: Laziness. SPEAKER 1: Oh, there we go. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. SPEAKER 1: OK. So one more question from me, and then the audience gets to take over. So if you could have a cameo in one of the following, which would you choose and why? So "Star Trek," "Lord of the Rings," "Star Wars"-- which you're a recent convert to or, at least, recent viewer-- SIMONE GIERTZ: Oh, you know so much. SPEAKER 1: --or "Sharknado"? SIMONE GIERTZ: "Lord of the Rings," hands down, without a doubt. SPEAKER 1: Why does "Lord of the Rings" win? SIMONE GIERTZ: I was a huge Lord of the Rings fan. When I was younger, I went though an elvish phase. Yeah. [LAUGHTER] And I had a huge crush on Orlando Bloom. Yeah. So I'd do it just to make 14-year-old Simones proud. SPEAKER 1: All right. Lord of the Rings. If you're going to do episode seven, [INAUDIBLE] "the Hobbit," then here you go. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yes. SPEAKER 1: All right. So I'm going to grab my computer so we can do some Dory questions, which is our online question, answer tool. And then Samara from the Google News Team is going to help out with microphones. SIMONE GIERTZ: Oh, gosh. Yeah, I was-- I mean, I wouldn't do a cameo. I wanted to do a voiceover-- I'd love to do a voiceover for "Adventure Time," one of my favorite TV shows. And, as soon as I put it out there, I realized that they were about to discontinue the show. And they've already recorded the last episode. It made me so sad. SPEAKER 1: Oh. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. SPEAKER 1: All right. So first question out here. AUDIENCE: OK. You spoke briefly about the relationship between advertisers and content creators, as it relates to the quality of the work. And I wanted to just hear a little bit more about your thoughts about that. SIMONE GIERTZ: How it relates to the quality of the work that you put out as a creator? AUDIENCE: Yeah. And how creators can survive well in this relationship and what that does to the creator. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. I mean, you just need to find sponsors who are fully OK with what you're doing and who don't-- I think, as soon as you have companies come in and tell you what you can and can't do creatively-- I mean, maybe some people are better at handling that. But because you are, as a YouTuber, especially, often you're your own producer, you're your own writer, you're the on-camera talent, the camera person, and having somebody be like, oh, you can't say that is just really weird. And I think, also, like what a lot of companies that aren't very accustomed to the field at working with online talent, what they don't understand is the audience is completely accustomed to this person being the way that they've always been. And, as soon as you start altering that, immediately people are like-- it's like when your parents snuck in medicine in your drink and you're like, there's something weird about this. You're trying to get something down with me. So I think it's a lot of that. I think the most successful companies-- I mean, something like Audible does where they're just like, yeah. You do whatever. We don't really judge what you do, within a range. But, yeah. I think that's the way to do it because, as soon as you get the legal team involved, they're like we can't do this. We can't do this. We can't do this. You can't do this. So I think it's just being conscientious of what companies you choose to work with and making sure that they are very well understanding about the type of content you make. SPEAKER 1: Cool. So I'm going to take one from the Dory and then we'll go back in the room. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. Will I put a dildo on it? No, stop asking. SPEAKER 1: [LAUGHS] SIMONE GIERTZ: Come on. SPEAKER 1: So this is actually Googler that's watching from Google Boston. Hello, Google Boston. Before working here, I was a teaching assistant for a robotics class. Your video has definitely helped motivate me to build stuff in the job which, in turn, helped me get into Google. So thank you. Well, that's not really a question, but that's a compliment. There you go. SIMONE GIERTZ: Oh, thank you. That's good to hear. SPEAKER 1: All right. So a question from the room? AUDIENCE: Hi. SIMONE GIERTZ: Uh, what? Oh, there you are. Great. AUDIENCE: So thanks for talking. I just wanted to know how you find inspiration for your ideas and what to do next. SIMONE GIERTZ: So thanks for listening. I find inspiration-- I mean, a lot of it spurs from everyday problems I have and just being-- I mean, I'm just a very ambitious, lazy person, I think, so I go through lengths to help myself with the everyday problems that I have. It's a lot that. But, I mean, more recently, I found there's just so much shit going on in our world and that I feel needs Shitty Robot solutions. I did a Pussy Grabs Back machine, which was this arm, this plastic arm, that went out from your crotch, and it was a mouse trap. And it was, like, [CLICKS] bang, pussy grabs back. And I think that now I find a lot of inspiration in just things that are happening in society. But, I mean, most of it is also just body maintenance, like maintaining your body in different ways. And, yeah. Most recently, I did a manicure robot to help me paint my nails. And, yeah. SPEAKER 1: And there's a shampoo robot where you learned what it feels like to have your hair pulled by a robot. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. There was the wake-up machine, I think, that my hair got-- SPEAKER 1: Oh, it was the wake-up machine that got tied up. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah, I got tangled up. And, yeah. It was very humiliating and painful. SPEAKER 1: All right. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yep. AUDIENCE: My kids and I are big fans of your channels and, also, Patreon supporters. Have to ask. You're in San Francisco now again. And Burning Man, have you been? Are you going? It seems like a natural. SIMONE GIERTZ: I was there two years ago. Yeah. It was-- oh, gosh. I'm doing that thing. I'm doing that thing that people have been to Burning Man do where's it's like, you can't really describe it. [LAUGHTER] It was-- no, I liked it a lot. It was very weird. It was such a mindfuck, because you're like, would normal Simone do this or not? But I'm just not that much of a party person. I get very tired, and I need to sleep a lot. And it's a long time. And it's just like a tricky thing, but I'm not going this year. But I might go in future years. It would be fun, and I'd want to build something big. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Have any of your robots turned out to be not so shitty, kind of too useful to be funny? Because we all love when they go wrong, but I assume sometimes. SIMONE GIERTZ: I actually got-- the thing is, people get very upset with me if they're not shitty enough. So, for example, when Scott and I did the beer robot, one of the takes-- so it was a robot that put down the cup, and then poured a beer, and handed me the beer. It was one of the takes where it was still spraying me with beer. But people were like, Simone, this isn't shitty enough. What have you become? And they were really disappointed in me that it worked too well. I mean, most of them just really suck. So, yeah. They're good at-- SPEAKER 1: Well, it's almost if you get more budget, I hope you keep it for yourself because you shouldn't invest it in your robot because that would totally kill it. SIMONE GIERTZ: I'd want to invest in stronger and bigger motors. Yeah. SPEAKER 1: OK. SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. SPEAKER 1: So just the scale of the shittiness would go up but not the quality level? SIMONE GIERTZ: No. No, but I realize I have probably one of few jobs where the sentence, that was really shitty, great job, actually makes sense and isn't just passive aggressive. Yeah. [LAUGHTER] SPEAKER 1: So we'll take a few more questions. So we got one back there. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So, Simone, you've told about how you've done a lot of different things. And I guess you'll continue to do a lot of different things. And it's really inspiring. But, at the same time, it must have been pretty scary. So my question is, how did you practically go about finding out and doing the right research to become successful in all of these different things that you did? Because when you start doing something new, you might not have all the information. So did you just go on Google and type in how can I be an astronaut or something? SIMONE GIERTZ: I mean, I've definitely not been successful in everything I've done. I've been pretty terrible at a lot of stuff. I mean, I worked as an MMA reporter. I was a pretty bad MMA reporter. I think the key thing to-- and I understand. It's been a huge privilege having supportive parents and growing up as a middle class person in a country like Sweden because I've had the opportunity to try out a lot of different things. And I think mostly what I realize is, because I had this feeling that I was very duty-driven, and I had this feeling that for it to be important, it has to be hard. It has to be a struggle, and you have to push yourself really hard. And then, in my early 20s, I realized, like, wait. I'm a lot better at the things that I'm enthusiastic about, and that I actually like, and don't really feel like work. So I think it was just that shift in perspective and trying to pursue the things that I feel that I'm good at, and that I really enjoy doing, and that somehow feel a little bit guilty to be spending time on to just do more of that because you're obviously going to be better at that. Yeah. And, to me, it's just building things that don't work. SPEAKER 1: [CHUCKLES] Over here. AUDIENCE: Thanks. I'm not sure how much you like to predict the future, but I am very curious to know what you think the role of robotics will be in theatrical performances and musical performances. SIMONE GIERTZ: Oh, that's interesting. I don't actually know. It's an interesting thing because I'm a hobbyist that happened to gain a following. And, often, I get interview questions about what is the future of artificial intelligence? And I'm like, I'm not an authority in this field. I think that, definitely, people have this urge to create everything that we have around us into comedy. And I think that, as we are more surrounded by technology, that definitely gets integrated into the arts more. So I'll do a Shitty Robot show. I might even sing a little bit. SPEAKER 1: Now have you been to Maker Faire in the Bay Area? SIMONE GIERTZ: I have. Yeah. But I'm going to miss it this year, unfortunately. SPEAKER 1: Maker Faire, still go. But next time-- SIMONE GIERTZ: Yeah. SPEAKER 1: All right. Let's take one more, one more audience question, right back here. AUDIENCE: I want to ask you if one of your creations were to gain sentience, which one would you be most afraid of? And which one would be the happiest of having them become [INAUDIBLE]? SPEAKER 1: The drone haircutter. That would be my nightmare. SIMONE GIERTZ: The drone haircutter, that would be a good one, yeah. But, I think, probably-- so MegaBots made-- they have these huge fighting robots, and they made a chopping machine extension for their robots. So it's eight-foot long knives. I feel like having that one run after me would probably be pretty terrifying. I chopped up an oven with it. I think that one. And the one I'd most want to have sentient, probably the applause machine because if it knew by itself when it needed to clap and not, that would be great. It'd be like the perfect audience. Yeah. I'd swap all of you out for the applause machine. No. SPEAKER 1: You're all going be-- SIMONE GIERTZ: You're all going to be replaced. So how many it takes for me to get it? So, I mean, I've like transitioned a little bit from that. But, usually, what I did in the start, I did it only for the GIF. And that's the whole filming the video is that I can get a little GIF of this project working. And I think the wake-up machine-- I mean, sometimes I do 20 takes. And the wake-up machine was really-- now it's nicer because I have Scott who's sitting over there who helps me and can be like, OK. That was good. Or that wasn't bad because, otherwise, it's just me. And I'm running back and checking that everything was in frame. But it does take a fair amount of takes. I think the worst one was actually the lipstick robot. So I had a robot arm put lipstick on me. And I think I did 5 to 10 takes on that one. But in between each take, I was covered in lipstick. And I had to wipe it off and try and cover it up with more makeup. And, at the end of it, I had the worst rash on my face because I just had layers and layers of lipstick. And I just had to scrape it off. So I think that was actually the most painful one. Yeah. SPEAKER 1: So the cover-up machine to go along with the lipstick machine, that would actually be useful. SIMONE GIERTZ: It worked too well, so I was like this is way off-brand. I can't show this. No. Yeah, but that would have something. SPEAKER 1: It just again, though, sounds too useful. SIMONE GIERTZ: Sounds too useful. SPEAKER 1: Yeah. Yeah. SIMONE GIERTZ: A lot of peo-- I mean, yeah. A lot of people do useful things. I can't compete with that. I can't. I mean, it's just like it's all about finding a field that's small enough so you can be at the top of it. SPEAKER 1: You have cornered the useless market. SIMONE GIERTZ: I just want to be the best at something. So I'm just going to find-- it's narrow enough so you're like, OK. I can actually climb to the top of this thing. SPEAKER 1: Useless Enterprises-- AUDIENCE: Who's the number two in your field then? SIMONE GIERTZ: Oh, I mean there's a-- I can't say that I'm the number one. There is a few people who do stuff like that. There's a guy who is like really doing well. His name is William, and he mainly does laser cutting stuff. But he does really weird stuff. He did a ham and cheese sandwich of Vin Diesel that was laser-cut layers of just ham. So he just laser cut a bunch of ham. And it turns into this Vin Diesel model. There's also a company. A Canadian guy runs the useless duck company. So you might have seen it. It's a baby feeding machine where there's an app connected. And there's a little bottle that goes up to the crib. And the baby is standing-- it's a doll-- and the bottle just punches the baby in the face, and it falls over. SPEAKER 1: Well, I want to thank you for trucking down to the Googleplex today, and sharing your stories, and for everyone who turned out online and virtual in Boston. So thank you very much. It was great having you here. SIMONE GIERTZ: Thanks for letting me come. Thanks for showing up. Yeah. [APPLAUSE] You, too. And thank you. Yeah. [APPLAUSE] 