 Hi! Welcome to the TechCenter Mobile Robotics here in KUKA headquarter in Augsburg. My name is Michael Gerung. I'm the Product Manager for mobile robots and I invite you to the TechCenter. Please come on! I show you around. So this is our whole setup here. We have it all for visitors in the TechCenter. That's two KMR iiwa mobile robots, one KMP 1500 -- that's a platform -- and one big platform you see at the very end: that's our onmiMove platform. All our mobile robots have three main things in common. The one thing is very visible. That's omnidirectional wheels. Then the navigation solution, so all platforms work with the same navigation system. And also the safety, so you see us walking around in here because the vehicles themselves as well as a robots are safe. Right here you see our KMP 1500, which means KUKA Mobile Platform, with a payload of 1500 kilograms, so enough to hold car bodies body in white. Then we have here the KMR iiwa. That's also on a platform: the KMP 200 with a 200-kilogram payload for the platform and naturally in addition to just a normal platform you have here the robot arm who can pick up things and store them there and also work with the goods on the platform and move them away and put them somewhere else. Then furthermore on the back side we have the mother of all our mobile robots -- the mother because it was the first one. That's our omniMove platform. We build it in sizes up to 34 meters long, up to a payload of 100 tonnes and also with lifting devices up to six meters height. In addition to the SLAM navigation with the laser scanners we have here the possibility to show that we are also able to follow like here optical lines, so we can also deal with standard navigation systems. With our second KMR iiwa in the TechCenter we have the possibility to show different scenes and what I want to show you now is the sensitivity of the robot. And we use this sensitivity to control the platform. So whenever I push the robot in that direction the platform will move in that direction and I push the platform in that direction, then the platform will move in that direction. If I push it downwards the platform will turn. The other way around, the platform will turn. So that's the basics of our TechCenter. I thank you for watching the movie and I am eager to see you down here and answer all your questions. Thank you very much. 