  The second trend is about the dawn   of true machine intelligence. So, this is something that is   already happening today and things that couldn't be possible  only five years ago back in 2012   are already possible today, and that's because the   processing power of machines is really happening and it's really, really evolved compared to where it was   only a few years back. An example that I like a lot   is this one that I found on the internet, and this is about identifying   whether these are dogs or muffins. So for us,   it shouldn't be too complicated. I'm pretty sure 100% of us   will get it right. For some people,   it might take longer. For me,   it takes a long time to tell. But eventually we get there   because we, as humans, are designed to identify images and we can read images   no problem at all. Five years ago, if you take   a computer and you ask the computer,  "OK, what is a dog   and what is a muffin?" it wouldn't be able to tell it. It would take... The error rate would be very high because we were working   in a set of rules, rules-based sort of analysis. So we were telling the computer,   "OK, four looks like this, "ears look like this,   eyes and noses look like this. "Try to identify   which one is which." And then the computer   will have trouble doing that. Today, because of the amazing   computer power that we have, we don't have to be   based on rules anymore. We are based on data. So instead of telling the computer   to look for noses, which is very hard to tell because   a blueberry looks like a nose, then we will be able to tell, "OK,   here is one million photos of dogs "and this is one million photos   of muffins. "Go crazy and identify   which of these 16 are dogs "and which ones are muffins." And then the computer will learn and will be able to determine   what is happening, and they can do it today with   a very high degree of accuracy. So this was impossible recently. It is possible today because of all those advancements   in machine learning. In our research from   Ericsson ConsumerLab, 10 hot consumer trends, and this is something   that I was talking about outside. So we have these 10 trends   that we have asked people about and we asked them, "OK,   what do you think about this?" People agreed that artificial   intelligence pretty much is going to be everywhere,   so we are already seeing that today.  Interestingly enough, people tend to  be happy if they had a manager who was artificial intelligence   rather than a human. Some people would prefer to have   a president or a prime minister that is a machine, an   artificial intelligence entity, rather than a flesh person out there  who can be corrupted or whatever. And on the other hand,   on the negative side, people are a bit afraid of the fact that we are going to lose jobs   because of AI. And that's not a secret. Like, Hakan was talking about   platooning earlier today and platooning means   connecting several trucks together and then those trucks   might be driverless and when they are driverless, well,   those drivers lose their jobs. On the other hand,   you can have those drivers up-skill and doing something else. So we will have to move fast   but there are challenges and there are advantages. Another interesting thing   related to AI is what is going to happen   with self-driving cars. So, with a self-driving car,   we need to make decisions. So it is not about dogs   and muffins anymore. And for us in Telstra, for example,   it's all about the rider. So we are interested to know   why is the network failing? Or is the network going to fail   when I activate this feature? Or when are these customers going to  churn and how can I fix this churn? So all those things are the things   that we can analyse now because all that big data   that is coming up can be analysed. For a self-driving car, the car will  need to make a decision, can I merge to the right   or can I merge to the left? And that's only possible because the  car will be able to analyse the data  and make that happen. Asking people about this, one out of four persons believe that  they feel safer crossing the streets  if the car is autonomous, and 65% of people would like to have  an autonomous car. And the reason why we have this   in the 10 hot consumer trends is because pedestrians will become   the main stakeholder on the roads when cars are autonomous. There are no drivers anymore. Cars might be delivering parcels   rather than people. So all of us who are the pedestrians  are the ones that we have to pay   a lot of attention to. 