 That room is just like all the the master have to go through So the formula in the in the tower set when you go into the dark until you cannot be dark they are you cannot see like So actually when I do the research is the same thing as the recorder melatonin and serotonin And Phi M all and DMT That is what the West discovered the DMT and the Phi M. Oh, so all the drug is producing this Okay in the dark Oh, yeah, and and the because psychedelic drugs right be producing the DMT. Yes So the people take it the signal They they our body. Yeah, I just hear you. I just want to Costa Rica drank. Ayahuasca. Yeah it has Yeah, and yeah, I've got that experience. I know so that is the whole key of that. Okay? so now in a down way they gone to all these Drugs before they call a motor più umano più. It's a lot of all kind of opting inside them So they and one major portion is mercury and the border they think they bought the mercury to one level and they have Southwest for us the metal and their precious stone or boy because a metal candy stopped by the the matter only candy stopped by the mercury So you put the Metro in the dissolve it and you can inject and take it But they no matter what you do. They still some person day so when they take it in its lightly of taking poison and you poem on the body producing a fighting effect and Stimulate a death hormone on atop the head And that is the DMT So the DMT people experience when they go to go to water they draw And that is the time the dmt purdue a producing the person and you're sitting and In the so sweet they run out and we see vision see thing and you see so many thing so is the same thing like a magic mushroom Picker is hot poison. I'm not very poison the yellow mushroom is is Magic because it don't kill you right away, but it makes you close to death and stimulate the DMT So do I use up the DMT that store in the mono that right on the pineal gland? So we got the death hormone so that hormone the ticket out The fiim. Oh, you see color see vision you walk through the wall the five annuities. I remember yeah Yeah, and the DMT make you feel like your separation. Okay, so as we go out, you know a lot about psychedelics. Oh, yes because My study and my expertise is my I do all these things many many years Yeah, and the website will disagree and we compare to them why? So now pyramid you experiment with magic mushrooms. No no, I don't want become my master want me that week the Dow co2 so long and This one is Tom lead you to one way because it's many thousand years. We already gone through this okay, and finally they they say no we have to return back to internal or Pew and you want to man act with your internal dinosaurs the empty sauce? okay, which is biased in human beings then but in the dark room you Producing it. You're not draining it There is a whole key. So now and the Masters used to go through this dark room There's as part of their training right and that's where you got the idea to teach other people to do this Alright, and how does it work? How long do you need to be in the dark? Oh one week totally that totally dark eat everything is in the darkroom, but the whole kid You have to understand when we we are we have to ting When you go to sleep at night So I always I always my master say cover your eye and for the earplug So doc. So when you dock the body producing monotony and But when in the morning the melatonin you're producing at night, it turned to salah, Tony So then I'd like the finish but one you when used when you go in the dark and You come your mind and not speak and come everything down In the dark now the body producing more monotony five milligram 25 a 10 milligram 20 25 milligram when it when the melatonin producing 25 milligram Now we have enough to produce it because it's the same chain It's exactly the same chain is the matter Tony. So when it 25 is split into Phi M Oh So now you see you standing the e-string day after second day when the or the third day you have enough mother Tony because you don't Don't con when like and we convert the Martin into serotonin Okay, so when you have not converted sorry Tony you have enough it producing fiim Oh and you see lycée color series and cementing or see past life Okay, very strong v mu y very strong and now when the fighting will finish When you have more variable now if you stay to the third of what day? Not the final have enough it turned to DMT and now you're sitting there you feel hey Something cool you are something or get out of your body and that is we call the source we want to leave the body So now we have to control them We're to control them because if you don't want so we practice in the first second and turning for the fib level you try to control feed the fit the sauce pretty stronger and They know how to get out and come back You 