 Welcome to NPTEL; myself, Dr. Jayanta Das from Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT, Kharagpur. I will be teaching you Advanced Materials and Processes. Last couple of classes, you may recall that we have discussed about different properties of nanomaterials. And among those properties, the one of the very interesting properties were the mechanical properties. Because reducing grain size always increases the strength of the materials. Now on the other hand, there are several functional properties that can be exploited and can be achieved only in nanomaterials. And definitely the engineers always look for exploiting those properties for real life application. And already today, we are using this nanomaterial for a large number of various technological application as on today, we call it as nanotechnology. So, today we will be focusing mostly on the functional aspects of nanomaterial along with the nanotechnology which the property cannot be achieved in any other materials. As an example, I can tell you like we have studied about quantum dots. So, how this quantum dots are so much important for any kind of emission of some range of spectra and that can lead to a better resolution level in a screen, ok. So, these are some of the very important aspect of nanotechnology. Or let us say if I wish to produce a surface; where usually we sit down on a chair or maybe the surface of a big building, ok. The outer wall surface, can we make let us say, the wall surface in such a way that there will be no water seepage through the walls what I want to mean like if I put a drop of water on a lotus leaf, then the water never stick to the leaf, you have noticed that. So, it immediately goes away on the leaf and the leaf appears very fresh and so on. So, can we prepare such kind of lotus effect on any other surfaces? So, it requires some sort of mimicking the nature and the features in nano scale which can be adopted on some other materials that engineers produced by several processing technique. So, before we begin all these discussion let us have a close look on what are the smart behavior of materials can be achieved. In different types of material, I am not at all concentrating in this slide on nanomaterials. So, like here, the first one is the input, and the second column representing the output. We can achieve color change in several class of materials by application of temperature; which we called as thermomochromics, then radiation, let us say photochromatics, and mechanochromatics like deformation; means, I deform a material and then color has changed ok. So, these are very unique smart behavior of some materials or maybe some chemical reaction goes on and it changes the color, ok or electrictrochromatics. And let us say liquid crystal, here we employ some electric potential and which causes a color change. Or let us a suspended particle ah, here we provide electrical potential it causes a color change. Or maybe the rheological properties of material can be changed by application of some electrical signal. So, here how we apply electrical potential, and it is simply changes the stiffness of the material. So, these are very, very important properties in terms of let us say chromics, photochromics, thermochromics, or mechanochromics, chemochromics, or let us say electrochromics and so on. On the other hand, there are large range of material behavior that is linked with output of light means it emits light. And you must be knowing what we have discussed in earlier class that, a large range on material that absorb light and then it cause fluorescence and it emit light ok; however, those kind of light emission may have some time lag from the absorption stage to the emission stage. So, in that case, we call it these properties as luminescence. So, electroluminescence a luminescent the material where we apply some electrical potential and then it emits light. Or maybe photoluminescence, here we apply some radiation that absorb let us an ultraviolet ray and then it emit an optical light. Ultraviolet ray has a higher energy level is h nu the photon energy is very high, and then it emit let us say a lower or larger wavelength. So, it basically absorbs a lower wavelength and it emits a larger wavelength. Now very similarly chemoluminescence or thermoluminescence, this is very interesting property if we increase the temperature of the material, then it emit lights. Or let us say one of the very interesting a interesting a phenomena or smart behavior of material that is light emitting diode, we call it as LED. So, here we apply an electric potential and then it emits actually the light. So, today we will try to look at what are those properties we really need. All that say in a photovoltaic cell here we absorb sunlight, and then we generate a electrical potential. And that can be stored in a battery which can be which can be used later on when sunlight will not be there. So, this is a very a unique property that we used in many remote places as a photovoltaics. On the other hand, the type 3 behavior of smart behavior of materials are interchangeable. Means any of the signal, input signal we give we get the output. Or if we give electric then we can get deformation n. Means, if this signal is given then we can generate the first formed signal. So, here you already know about piezoelectric material; where we deformation means mechanical straining, then it gives us an electrical pulse. And if we apply an electrical pulse we can get a deformation. Or let us say pyroelectric, this is another important means, we apply temperature. It produces a electrical signal. Or if we apply in the reverse way signal into electrical signal we will get we can increase the temperature. So, we can use in a heating stage or maybe thermoelectric, or maybe elecrosrictive or let us say magnetostrictive. So, these are the electrostrictive properties and where we apply electrical potential and deformation, these interchangeable properties are very much important. Now, the question comes I mean, if we a try to apply or achieve such properties in nanomaterial, is there any change of their behavior ok. So, that is basically one of the very, very important points. And we will be starting with our discussion on this nanomaterial on smart behavior; like solid state lighting ok. So, usually in the bulb what we use we have a tungsten filament, we apply a potential and there is a thermoionic emission. But here it is a quantum dot and the so, the diode when we apply a very low voltage it emits light. So, so we apply an electrical signal and it emit light. So, this is one of the very, very interesting point. So, how people develop this idea that a quantum dot and let us say the quantum light emitting diode can be achieved in a nanomaterial; here quantum means you understand that the size is below 100 nanometer and the quantum or the electrons are constrained in all these 3 dimension actually. So, the first evolution was the LED, that is called light emitting diode, and light emitting diode has a short coming that is called narrow sets of emission frequencies. So, if you just look at a solid state physics where we discuss mostly on p-n junction. Here we have a semiconductor and a p-n junction appeared here this is the p-type and this the n-type and in between there is a barrier ok. So, if we apply a reverse bias, then the barrier width increases. Means, if I apply positive bias in this side and negative bias in the p side, then all these electron and hole they goes to the opposite direction and then increases the a barrier region. Because the negative charges, n-type they basically attracted by the positive and the positive one is attracted by the negative one. So this is a very standard phenomena that everybody knows. But if we apply a forward bias means, there is a positive side goes to the n-type and the negative side goes to the n-type then what will happen? They will repel each other and so, the barrier width will decrease. And if we put basically a metallic contact here, if we put a metallic contact here, then the light will be emitted. And this is a property called electro luminescence; means, we apply a potential and the light will be emitted. So, the energy input that at the junction that basically creates a voltage output which causes the fluorescence property. On the other hand, when we talk about quantum LED so, the quantum dot layer these are the quantum dot layers ok. So, with different color; so, the different color means basically RGB so, red green and blue. So, these red green and blue they are, they are printed, printed one after another actually again RGB. So, in that way actually it continues. Now here these are the layer which creates these hole blocking and transport; where the electron transport is caused by this layer. So, one side we have a cathode, and one another side we have an anode; which is deposited the whole structure is deposited on a substrate or let us say a glass. So, this is a typical cross section of a quantum LED. And yes, quantum LED is the advanced version of LED, because of its emission frequencies which is much wider than the LED’s; however, the life of quantum LED’s are not extremely great. So, it is something like thousand hour or so. And so, they are in competition with another new technology, that is called OLED. So, OLED is the organic LED so, they have a larger life. But anyway the phenomena here above the quantum LED is directly linked with the nanotechnology, because we use quantum to produce and emit the light. So, some of these quantum dot and their images people can have a look, what you can see here? That the quantum dots in the form of quantum LED’s are made of network of quantum dot and can also be built by printing. So, I can take such kind of printing technology; where red QLED are printed first and then the green LED’s are printed in the in the second line, and then the third then I print the blue one. So, I get continuously R, G and B. So, here you can see that we have red green and blue ok, one after another. So, this is a typical this is a very small scale actually. So, 1.2 millimeter and inside the structures are appeared as such kind of very small quantum dots. So, quantum dots of nanometer size crystal, they are basically semiconductor silicon and germanium for which the electronic properties are strongly dependent on their size. The principal and the potential advantage of these QLED’s that the efficiencies are very high, and better control of the emitted light, and the most important are the form factor characteristic and on the other hand quantum LED’s has a higher amount of lumens; means, it emit a higher lumens of light with respect to the wattage has been consumed. So, the effectively or conversion of energy from electrical signal to the optical signal, that factor is much better. So, here also another quantum dots I show you, these are the quantum dots grown on indium, gallium and arsenic. Each dot is somewhat in the range of 20 nanometer. So, wide and 8 nanometer in height so, these are some a very important quantum dots and an important things. Now in case of LCD, that is a liquid crystal display. We also have a large amount of application of the nanotechnology. And these LCDs can be used in very large size as transparency control technology for let us say privacy window. Let us say I want to create a window, that will be transparent as well as if I wish then it will be completely blurred ok. So, I wish to control by some other kind of signal, the transparency level of a window. And this is impossible without nanotechnology application. So, how to do that ? So, there are this is a liquid crystal display typical. So, when we do not apply any voltage, the light is transferred through this, and if we have a filter then we get a polarized light. But once the liquid crystal layer with a twisting crystal and polarized lights path, let us say by application of some particular voltage or let us say some signal, then we can get actually cross polarized filter. So, basically the direction orientation changes here. So, we get another direction of the polarized light. So, this is called the liquid crystal display, or we can use as a suspended particle display SPD. And there is a very similar effect, where we have rod like or molecule with a very strong dipole. Here is the positive side and this is a negative side ok. So, they are randomly oriented. So, if light is going to pass then they will be blocked. Whereas, if we apply a potential across this barrier, then they will be aligned and if the light goes in then light can be passed. So, this is very interesting phenomena that suspended particle display that could act as a transparent or non-transparent in windows, and they are electrically activated, but can change from a very transparent or clear state to an opaque state. So, and vice versa so, the typical device has multiple layers, and this active layer is associated with a color change consist of this kind of needle shape needle shaped a particle that is suspended in a liquid. So, if no voltage is applied then particles are randomly positions. But if we apply some and in that case actually it become opaque, but when we apply a voltage, then they are aligned along the direction of the application of the voltage, and this needle shaped particles imposes field and light can easily pass through it. So, this is somewhat a very nice example of the nanotechnology. So, 2 of this nanotechnology what we have discussed like a QLED or let us say the LCD and SPDs and so on. Now, the other application areas that we can in real life we use, that let us say like a hydrophobic or hydrophilic surface. The hydrophobicity or hydrophilicity that depends on a liquid and on a on a on a solid and their angles ok. So, if the angle is greater than theta greater than 150 degree we call it as a as a super hydrophobic surface, ok. So, this is a surface which is super hydrophobic. So, so the liquid droplet has the same shape, but if wetability is improved or higher, then this angle actually decreases ok. So, this angle is let us say greater than 90-degree. So, then we call it as a as a as a as a more weightable surface. But highly wetting surface that has a theta that is a lying in the range of 0 to 90 degree. So, this is called as a hydrophilic surface actually. So, here this is like water can be more attracted on a some surface. So, you should keep in mind that not all time we need a hydrophobic surface. So, that the water should not be wetted on a surface, but some cases application we also need water to be wetted on a surface. So, this important application areas one has to look at. So, if we look at a such kind of hydrophobicity, then you can see this is water droplet appeared in such a way, even though it is not a super hydrophobic. This is a normal hydrophobic surface, and in a in a more nanoscale. If you look at this kind of hydrophobicity how it how it achieved in a surface we have very, very small nanoscale feature on the surface; where there are some air pockets. So, air can be it can go in which basically protect from wetting of the surface. So, like if we think about a lotus leaf ok. So, lotus leaf has this kind of features. So, this kind of nanoscale features and if you put one drop of water, then not only it basically remains it is shape like a sphere, but it also collect the dirt from the surface you can see these are the dirt particles. So, nanoscale dirt particles that goes into the water droplet and it clean the surface. So, we can use this particular feature or mimmick this natural feature so that we can produce a surface for a lotus effect. So, so if the particles which is lying on a surface when a water droplet falls, then it automatically roll and it collect those particles. Whereas this is a typical hydrophobic surface so, hydrophobicity and typical hydrophobic surface which basically says that once the liquid droplet falls, then immediately it basically forms a sphere. So, this is a typical feature, and then it collect all the dirts and give you and pick up the dirts to have such kind of lotus effect. Now, if we want to produce a surface which has an easy cleaning material, and it should have some sort of entry by microbial features. So, in that case, we need hydrophilic surface so that if there is a dirt, then the dirt is sticking on a surface and the water goes and absorb on the surface. And then it the dirt will decompose, and once the light appear then the water molecule goes away and then the dirts will run off. So, this is an another technology that is can be used using; let us say titania or zinc oxide nanoparticle that are coated on a surface, ok. So, there is a nanoscale coating on the surface, and exposure of ultraviolet radiation. So, electron hole pairs will be created in the material; so, the free radicals or electron that react with the foreign substance. So, let us assume these are the foreign substance that is sticking on a surface. And so, due to the light rays, and on the coating, it produces some positive and negative hole pairs. So, they will assist to decompose by oxidation of those harmful particles on the surface. And so, the loosen and decomposed particles, that can be washed away during a normal rainfall. So, every 3 months or 2 months there will be a rainfall and so, these particles we go away. So, this is one of the very interesting features that we can easy cleaning a surface we can create which may have some sort of antimicrobial feature. So, also we can produce some textile, means our shirt and let us say some of the chairs with seats where there will be no microbial activity. So, in that case also the textile that can be widely sought, this is a image of a textured nanofiber, you can see this is a length scale of 200 nanometer ah. So, where catalyst and antimicrobial compound can be can be sprayed on the surface so that it can provide those kind of a features. So, this is another interesting thing and so whatever different nanotechnology I have discussed, we can simply take an example for an automotive, which is widely a very wide industry on today. So, several components of an automobile can we replace using nanotechnology and which is already adopted so for by the bigger companies on today. So, from an industry perspective the all-time people wish to improve the overall performance of driving and the comfort. So, these are the very prime objective, and we can simply start with putting some nanocomposite here; which have the very, very high strength, as well as some shock absorbing capacity, and we can replace those kind of normal florescent lamp with QLED lights, which will consume less power. So, we can increase the efficiency; as well as we can increase some magnetorheological shock absorber, and electrorheological tires; which will give us more effective properties, those functional properties can be; as well as if there are scratches it is very hard to remove. So, why do not we produce some sort of anti-scratch paint of using nanotechnology, who which will call self-healing or maybe some self-cleaning a very clear type of a sprays can be made on the top of a car, and then all the water droplets when it will fall, immediately it will collect the dirt and it will it will the car surface will look very shiny as a newly appeared. So, that can be done so, self-cleaning or let us say a there are seats inside. So, those seats could be antimicrobial textiles. So, this is somewhat very much important. And bio threat sensors or alert air purification, many sensors we can use for using this nanotechnology. Let us say some of the emergency medical health monitoring system can also be given in a in a in a car. Or the screen itself is very much important aspect of the car, and we can use this self-cleaning glasses or antifogging glasses. And many electrical or mechanical components, emission control batteries, supercapacitors, tribological application let us say wear lubricant nanocoolant, ok. So, here we have a coolant right. So, inside a car. And so, those coolant can be we can use some nanotechnology for that. So, this is a very wide range of application areas that one can think about. As well as, a people always from a industry perspective think about the safety requirement. So, from such kind of nanocomposite or frame and shells we can use for improving the car performance. So, improve energy efficiency using let us say such kind of LED lights, we can reduce the energy level or the consumption. At the same time, we can reduce the weight by high strength materials, improve advanced electronic control system, improve durability, reliability and cost efficiency. So, these are somewhat the most important and challenging aspect on today for nanotechnology; however, many of these aspect that I told so far to you are already under application ok. So, they are very much interesting. So, the nanotechnology is not restricted within only let us say the field of metallurgy or physics. But it has widely spread over biotechnology and so on. So, very wider spectrum of application of this nanomaterials; where chemistry, physics, analytics, material science, and biology all are involved with the technical knowhow of this particular sets of material; where we can exploited the properties in terms of coating, emulsion, dispersion, plastic, film, powder. So, you can see the many and the end product could be used in automotive components paper, cosmetics, textile, display. So, so very a wide range of application and we need large future developments for complex formulation of those material. Embedding of nano into a matrix could be a key issue for generating maximum added value, as well as for material nutrition and pharma, energy, electronics ,biotechnology we can think about all these different types of application including OLED, sensor, contrast UV protection, heat management, self-cleaning. And so, these are the new product resulting from this nanotechnology. So, you can see the was the spectrum of the application areas, product development. So, there is a large opportunity and of these nanomaterials and nanotechnology. So, engineers should think about and devote themselves for developing this material for the human benefit. And since these materials are metastable and advanced alloy. So, we must think about this matter. Thank you very much. We will continue the discussion on a new topic in the next week. 