BusinessCompany BackgroundThe Company designs, manufactures and markets smartphones, personal computers, tablets, wearables and accessories, and sells a variety of related services. The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977.ProductsiPhoneiPhone® is the Company’s line of smartphones based on its iOS operating system. During 2020, the Company released a new iPhone SE. In October 2020, the Company announced four new iPhone models with 5G technology: iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro were available starting in October 2020, and iPhone 12 Pro Max and iPhone 12 mini are both expected to be available in November 2020.MacMac® is the Company’s line of personal computers based on its macOS® operating system. During 2020, the Company released a new 16-inch MacBook Pro®, a fully redesigned Mac Pro®, and updated versions of its MacBook Air®, 13-inch MacBook Pro and 27-inch iMac®.iPadiPad® is the Company’s line of multi-purpose tablets based on its iPadOS® operating system. During 2020, the Company released an updated iPad Pro®. In September 2020, the Company released an eighth-generation iPad and introduced an all-new iPad Air®, which was available starting in October 2020.Wearables, Home and AccessoriesWearables, Home and Accessories includes AirPods®, Apple TV®, Apple Watch®, Beats® products, HomePod®, iPod touch® and other Apple-branded and third-party accessories. AirPods are the Company’s wireless headphones that interact with Siri®. During 2020, the Company released AirPods Pro®. Apple Watch is the Company’s line of smart watches based on its watchOS® operating system. In September 2020, the Company released Apple Watch Series 6 and a new Apple Watch SE. In October 2020, the Company announced HomePod mini™, which is expected to be available in November 2020.ServicesAdvertisingThe Company’s advertising services include various third-party licensing arrangements and the Company’s own advertising platforms.Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 1AppleCareThe Company offers a portfolio of fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare® brand. The offerings provide priority access to Apple technical support, access to the global Apple authorized service network for repair and replacement services, and in many cases additional coverage for instances of accidental damage and/or theft and loss, depending on the country and type of product.Cloud ServicesThe Company’s cloud services store and keep customers’ content up-to-date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers.Digital ContentThe Company operates various platforms, including the App Store®, that allow customers to discover and download applications and digital content, such as books, music, video, games and podcasts.The Company also offers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple ArcadeSM, a game subscription service; Apple Music®, which offers users a curated listening experience with on-demand radio stations; Apple News+SM, a subscription news and magazine service; and Apple TV+SM, which offers exclusive original content. In September 2020, the Company announced Apple Fitness+SM, a personalized fitness service built for Apple Watch, which is expected to be available before the end of calendar 2020.Payment ServicesThe Company offers payment services, including Apple Card™, a co-branded credit card, and Apple Pay®, a cashless payment service.Markets and DistributionThe Company’s customers are primarily in the consumer, small and mid-sized business, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, and education, enterprise and government customers through its retail and online stores and its direct sales force. The Company also employs a variety of indirect distribution channels, such as third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. During 2020, the Company’s net sales through its direct and indirect distribution channels accounted for 34% and 66%, respectively, of total net sales.No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018.CompetitionThe markets for the Company’s products and services are highly competitive, and are characterized by aggressive price competition and resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products and services, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price and performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. Many of the Company’s competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures, and by emulating the Company’s products and infringing on its intellectual property.The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications and related services. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product and service features (including security features), relative price and performance, product and service quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and accessories ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation.Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 2The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices and services. The Company faces substantial competition in these markets from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and service offerings with large customer bases. In addition, some of the Company’s competitors have broader product lines, lower-priced products and a larger installed base of active devices. Competition has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. Certain competitors may have the resources, experience or cost structures to provide products at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company’s services compete with business models that provide content to users for free and use illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company expects competition in these markets to intensify significantly as competitors imitate the Company’s product features and applications within their products, or collaborate to offer integrated solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer.Supply of ComponentsAlthough most components essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain components are currently obtained from single or limited sources. The Company also competes for various components with other participants in the markets for smartphones, personal computers, tablets and other electronic devices. Therefore, many components used by the Company, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortage and significant commodity pricing fluctuations.The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or their manufacturing capacities have increased. The continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.The Company has entered into agreements for the supply of many components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all.Substantially all of the Company’s hardware products are manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland.Research and DevelopmentBecause the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and services, and to expand the range of its offerings through research and development (“R&D”), licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology.Intellectual PropertyThe Company currently holds a broad collection of intellectual property rights relating to certain aspects of its hardware devices, accessories, software and services. This includes patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other forms of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and various foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such intellectual property rights is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on such ownership, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel.The Company regularly files patent applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and is currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents, including utility patents, design patents and others. The Company also holds copyrights relating to certain aspects of its products and services. No single intellectual property right is solely responsible for protecting the Company’s products. The Company believes the duration of its intellectual property rights is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products.In addition to Company-owned intellectual property, many of the Company’s products and services are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of the Company’s products, processes and services. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all.Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 3Business Seasonality and Product IntroductionsThe Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. The timing of product introductions can also impact the Company’s net sales to its indirect distribution channels as these channels are filled with new inventory following a product launch, and channel inventory of an older product often declines as the launch of a newer product approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and distributors anticipate a product introduction.EmployeesAs of September 26, 2020, the Company had approximately 147,000 full-time equivalent employees.Available InformationThe Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge at investor.apple.com/investor-relations/sec-filings/default.aspx when such reports are available on the SEC’s website. The Company periodically provides other information for investors on its corporate website, www.apple.com, and its investor relations website, investor.apple.com. This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information on corporate governance and details related to the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only.Apple Inc. | 2020 Form 10-K | 4