 Hello everyone, I am Kevin Zhang and I am the conference chair of 2021 ISSCC. Despite the unparalleled challenge we are facing from the CoVid-19 pandemic, with the strong support and participation from the ISSCC community around the globe, with the tireless efforts from our entire ISSCC organizing committee, here, it is my great pleasure to report to you that we have developed a set of very exciting and high-quality program you all expect from ISSCC. This year, we will deliver our conference in a full virtual-format, you can experience and enjoy the conference online from anywhere in the world. I would like to invite the few of my colleagues to walk you through the highlights of the conference. Personally, I look forward to welcome you in February to the conference. Till then, have a happy and healthy holiday season! Hello, my name is Makoto Ikeda. Technical Program Chair of ISSCC 2021. This year ISSCC will be held in a totally virtual format. This introduction will show you how to explore and fully enjoy our rich technical contents. The same technical content as the past conferences is organized into 3 parts. Part 1 called Innovations consists of 205 outstanding technical presentations including 4 plenary talks and 6 invited industry talks, six special events, and demo sessions. Part 2 Exploration consists of six forums, and Part 3 Education consists of twelve tutorials, and a short course. ISSCC 2021 will start on Saturday February 13 with Education, followed by the Innovations part on Monday February 15 until Friday February 20, and conclude on Monday February 22 with Exploration. All the sessions except plenary presentations consist of short recap and live Q&A. On-demand full presentations are available from Friday February 5 for regular technical presentations, tutorial lectures, and short course lectures, except plenary presentations, and from Friday February 12 for forum presentations. In addition, both on-demand content and recorded live Q&A content will be available until March 31. Details will be explained later. ISSCC 2021 there are four plenary presentations, two on Monday February 15 and two on Tuesday February 16. Dr. Mark Liu, who is the chairman of TSMC, will talk on Advances in an open innovation ecosystem for further lowering the entry barriers and unleashing the future of innovation. Mr. Victor Peng, who is the president and CEO of Xilinx, will talk on real use-cases for adaptive intelligent platforms in this new computing era. On Tuesday, Prof. Dina Katabi, who is the Andrew and Erna Viterbi Professor of MIT, will talk on the intersection of machine learning, signal processing, sensors, and circuits, to transcend the traditional boundaries between computer science and electrical engineering. Prof. Albert J. P. Theuwissen, who is a professor of Delft University of Technology, and CEO/Founder of Harvest Imaging, will talk on the landscape of the future of solid-state imaging beyond shooting beautiful images. All four plenary presentations are delivered live, and will be available on-demand later, until the end of March. I hope you will enjoy and be inspired by these plenary presentations. Hello, my name is Alice Wang. Dennis Sylvester and I are the coordinators for the Invited Industry Sessions, where we invite speakers from industry to present on recent chip releases, go into the design challenges and share their practical solutions. On Monday, February 15, there are two parallel invited industry tracks. Session 2 delves into millimeter-Wave 5G and Radar systems while Session 3 is dedicated to Modern SoC designs. Invited authors are from Analog Devices, Texas Instruments, Infineon, Google, Microsoft, AMD, Nvidia and Baidu. Please join us for these interactive sessions. Hello, welcome to ISSCC 2021! My name is Eugenio Cantatore and together with the Demo Committee we organized the demos. You will be able to see the demos, live and online, on Friday February 19th. There will be two sessions, each with 26 demos. Each demo author will organize a virtual meeting where you will be able to discuss and watch the demo. We will miss for sure our social event, however I am looking forward to seeing all these amazing chips working before our eyes. Please join me in this fun and informative event. Hi, my name is Edith Beigne. I am the Technical Program Vice-Chair of the conference and Special sessions coordinator. Special live events are scheduled on Friday and Saturday of the main conference week. We will cover exciting topics of Remote work, IC design in the pandemic and the future of silicon technologies. In addition, you will have the chance to talk to experts about their favourite designs and testing mistakes. On Saturday, we will highlight students and Young Professionals. Pre-selected students will show their research work, and we invited senior panelists to share about their career choices. And hopefully inspire young professionals. Hello, my name is Ali Sheikholeslami and I am the Education chair of ISSCC 2021. The Education part of ISSCC includes 12 tutorials, one and a half hours each, and a Short Course for 6 hours. The Tutorials cover the entire technical areas of ISSCC, and the Short Course covers phase-lock loops, clocking and clock distribution. All the tutorials and the short course will be available on-demand as of Friday, Feb. 5, 2021, to be followed by live Q&A a week later, on Saturday and Sunday. As you watch these tutorials and the short course, please contribute to them by posting your questions online or simply by voting up questions posted by others. The speakers will be delighted to answer your questions during the live Q&A period. Please participate actively in ISSCC Education. Thank you. Hello, I’m Dave Robertson, the Forum Chair for the 2021 International Solid State Circuits Conference. ISSCC Forums represent a deep dive into the cutting edge of semiconductor circuit technology. Each forum is composed of a series of invited papers by renowned experts addressing topics around a central theme. ISSCC2021 features 6 forums covering Machine Learning Processors, Ultra-high accuracy data converters and analog circuits, Semiconductors to Fight Pandemics, 2.5D and 3D “Chiplet” technology, Quantum Electronics, and Ultra-high speed Ethernet. Live interaction between industry experts is a key part of ISSCC forums. For ISSCC2021, the main presentations will be posted in advance for audience access and viewing, culminating in LIVE review, Q&A and discussion sessions on Sunday, February 21 and Monday, February 22. We look forward to engaging with you on these important topics in February. 