 With the Daynamica smartphone application, it’s easy to collect, view, and edit highly detailed travel and activity data, with minimal user interaction. You can download this free application from the Apple or Google Play App store. If you received an email attachment, you may download the file directly from your email to your phone. Next, install the app. To log in, use the password and user ID you received from the research team. Check your App Permissions and make sure you are allowing Daynamica to access your location and physical activity. Collect & Review Data Be sure to charge your phone daily. Then, simply go about your day as usual, bringing your smartphone along whenever you leave the house. Daynamica will detect your activity and trips automatically. By the end of the day, you will see the data collected in the Calendar view. In most cases, users will open the app and automatically see the Calendar view. You can also access the calendar view by tapping the menu icon and selecting Calendar from the menu. Once you’re on the Calendar home screen, click the arrows at the top to go to your date of choice. To view your Calendar items, simply tap the item. From there, the trip or activity details screen shows the route of your trip or the location of your activity, along with tools to edit the item. From the Calendar home screen, you’ll also see a Map of your route throughout the day. Additionally, you’ll see a Summary of your trips and activity over the past seven days. Edit & Confirm Data Editing and confirming data is an important part of using Daynamica. To ensure the quality of your data, be sure to take time each day to edit and confirm your Calendar items using the tabs listed along the bottom. Time lets you adjust the start and end time of your trip. Type lets you correct the mode of transportation used for your trip. Anything that is faster than a bike will be predicted as a vehicle. It’s up to users to specify whether it is a car, bus, rail, or other mode of transit. Under the Type tab, you can also change a Trip to an Activity. If two separate trips have been incorrectly combined, you can use the Split tab to divide them up. Tap the green Split button to save your changes. Note that the Time, Type, and Split functions also work for Activities. An orange circle on a Calendar item’s icon indicates that the item is unconfirmed. To confirm the item, either edit the details, or press and hold the item until the orange Confirm button appears, then tap it. Confirming calendar events is an important part of the research study to ensure the quality of the data. Submit a Survey Daynamica also features built-in surveys. The main purpose of the surveys is to ask participants questions about their activities and trips, another important aspect of the research study. On most of the Calendar item’s icons, you will see an orange tag. This means you have a survey to complete. Tap the item, select Survey on the bottom menu, and answer a few questions. Answering the survey questions and clicking Submit will add more information about your trips and activities. You can edit details and complete surveys at your convenience, but doing so within 24 hours—when your memory is still fresh—will ensure the most accuracy. Additional Features In the main menu, Daynamica also includes a Task Reminder for your convenience. This will set reminders to confirm data or take the end-of-day surveys. Under the Settings, you can select the time for the Task Reminder, Pause Data Collection or End Data Collection as you see fit. Pausing or ending data collection may impact any reimbursement agreement rewarded for your participation in the research study. Daynamica was created by a team of faculty and students at the University of Minnesota. This team will continue to make improvements based on feedback from users like you. Learn more and find contact information online. 