 The world is complex, people are complex. Anything that has to do with us is often more complicated than we think. Our future skills concept as part of the Brainery program respects this complex causality and therefore combines knowledge from a wide range of disciplines - behavioral sciences social sciences and neurobiology. An environment full of change uncertainty and innovation demands proficiency not only in technology but also in human skills. Therefore we focus on the development of key competencies for the future which teach people to think more comprehensively, think more critically, understand human behavior and see the world around us in a more tolerant way. Not only in our opinion but also according to renowned global institutions such as the Fortune 500 and the Institute for the Future, the development of skills and competencies that are part of the future skills concept is crucial. In our connected world overloaded with information how can we make smarter decision, how can we identify what is useful and relevant and then maximize its use in an innovative way? Our brain is constantly affected by certain tendencies innate intuitions or biases that have evolved in us but in today's world they often lead us to irrational unfair and distorted decisions. We need to use critical thinking to make the best choices and cultivate the ability to constantly learn, absorb new knowledge verify it, revise it and apply it up-to-date and relevant to its practice. Faced with an information explosion we need to learn how to work under cognitive overload and how to deal with issues such as stress memory and focus. Increasing robotization is even beginning to threaten the middle class, putting pressure on crucial skills - the development of creative thinking adaptive thinking and innovation. These skills alone are no guarantee of success. The ability to sell yourself, your negotiation skills, your knowledge of behavioral science and your emotional and social intelligence - all have a vital role to play. Our Brainery educational program is based on the latest scientific knowledge, it applies the most effective forms of learning, it engages all senses, it is interactive, uses virtual reality and certified game-based learning tools. The aim of the program is the practical application of innovative knowledge and methods into educational and managerial practice. We transformed all these skills into five educational modules: Neuroscience of Human decision making and Critical thinking Emotional agility and Social intelligence Science of Persuasion and cognitive distortions in Negotiations Neuroscience of Change and Creative thinking and Conversational intelligence Storytelling and Public speaking. Each of the developed skills has its weight, but only a mutual synergy and interlinking these skills will allow you to see and understand the world in its complexity and thus create a true added value for you, your company and our society. If you have the courage - join us and maybe like us you will discover that you know much less than you assumed, but you understand a little more. 