 Welcome to this short movie about intravenous oxygen therapy, presented by Dr. med. Dirk Wiechert, general practicioner. Dr. med. Dirk Wiechert General practitioner  Dr. Regelsberger's intravenous oxygen therapy Question for Dr. Wiechert: What is an intravenous oxygen therapy? With Dr. Regelsberger's intravenous oxygen therapy, tiny, oxygen-filled microparticles are injected into the vein. A rather unfamiliar situation! And yet, I've been using this therapy regularly for about seven years now. Especially when I have questions about the circulation, the inflammation inhibition, or the immune modulation. The therapy increases the blood circulation, since the particles stimulate the interior surface of our blood vessels. This so-called endothelium then releases vasodilative prostacyclins, and can therefore make the value increase eightfold, like this test series of ten subjects showed. Question for Dr. Wiechert: How does the body react to the oxgen? It is about the cascade of arachidonic acid, which has an impact on several prostaglandins. Prostacyclin supports vasodilatation, reduction of blood pressure, and toning of veins. On the other hand, prostaglandin E2 is related to pain, inflammations, and fever. Now, the main question is whether the oxygen can reduce prostaglandin E2. By observing the regular application of intravenous oxygen therapy, we defined the lipid mediators in collaboration with a special lab in Berlin. We found out that the therapy actually reduces prostaglandin E2. Thus, the therapy can be considered for all kinds of circulatory disturbance, for example hypertension, peripheral artery disease (PAD), impaired wound healing, microcirculation-dependent neurodegenerations or any other circulation-dependent functional deficiency, such as heart and renal insufficiency with water retention. A parasite infection usually stimulates certain immune responses. Studies showed that autoimmune diseases, chronic bowel diseases, and multiple sclerosis can have a milder progession in case of parasite infection, This is because the immune system is focussing on the parasite infection, which reduces the infections in other areas. This increases the eosinophil count (part of the immune system) in the blood. We call that condition eosinophilia. The intravenous oxygen therapy causes a similar reaction: The eosinophils move from the inflammatory tissue to the blood, where they consider the oxygen particle their enemy, and therefore attack it. How does the therapy affect the mitochondrial function? The intravenous oxygen therapy allows us to use a low dose of a substance as a stimulation, causing a counterreaction (concept of hormesis). Depending on the tolerance, this doses is adjusted every day, to eventually reach the target dose. It should have a pro-oxidative effect, detect injured mitochondrial DNA, and help to cure the defective mitochondria. Counterreactions of other parameters show an increase in oxidative resilience of the mitochondria. A set of titrations with hydrogen peroxide shows the same. Surprisingly, over time, the ability to produce ATP increases with less mitochondria and less/no deletion mutants. The resiliance is a lot higher compared to the usual oxidative stress, which normally is only possible by doing sports. It is therefore a useful instrument to help people with neurodegenerations, burn-out, or depression. What else is interesting about the therapy? For me, the effect on macular degeneration, an age-related worsening of vision in the center of the visual field, is very special. The Amsler grid illustrates this effect. If you notice something like that, you should go see a doctor, since you probably have macular degeneration. It is the most frequent cause for blindness in Germany, and is surely related to age. Dr. Beeke, an eye doctor from Osnabrück, did a three week intravenous oxygen therapy with 44 patients, and compared their visual acuity before and after. Amazingly, he observed a ten percent average increase in absolute visual acuity, which makes a big difference for the patients. To sum up, three weeks of therapy, ten percent improvement for two months, slow decrease - or probably none at all if the therapy is continued, at least that's what I assume. What a big hit! One full intravenous oxygen therapy usually requires 10 to 20 sessions on consecutive days. One session lasts for about 30 to 60 minutes, since the amount of oxygen differs individually. The reaction of the eosinophiles is regularly checked in the lab, because it gives important information about the therapy's success. You can get detailed information about that therapy on our website, as well as a talk by Dr. Wiechert to medical experts. If you liked this video, feel free to rate, comment, and subscribe to the channel to not miss out on anything! 