 - Hey there, I'm Alexa with Microsoft coming to you from my home office/living room. - And I'm Elaina coming to you from my living room. Even though most of us are working from home these days, we are still excited to be bringing you the latest episode of Tech Trends, this time on AI. From AI laptops, to AI phones to AI clouds, some artificial intelligence is destined to take over our lives. But just how is it showing up in our lives today? Let's take a look in this first remote episode of Tech Trends. (upbeat music) - Artificial intelligence, or AI, is the name we give to software that mimics cognitive functions that we humans usually associate with ourselves. The most important aspect being the ability to learn and solve new problems. A key subset of AI is machine learning. The goal of AI is to simulate natural intelligence and solve complex problems, and then machine learning helps in this process by utilizing datasets to improve a specific task like maximizing your PC's performance. As AI capabilities continue to become more mainstream, AI will be able to help us do many more tasks that we wouldn't normally associate with a computer performing. Well, AI is now starting to show up in virtually every kind of technology. We'll be focusing on some applications of AI that are now just becoming available in consumer devices that you might use everyday. - Intel Adaptix technologies is a fascinating example of software AI being used today. Adaptix is a dynamic power tuning technology which intel launched with it's 10th gen Intel Core processors codenamed Ice Lake. Adaptix uses machine learning algorithm to sense system variables such as work load type, temperature, fan speeds, power, and CPU state, then dynamically changes the CPU power levels to maximize performance. According to Intel, this provides an 8-12% performance improvement depending on how well the AI can manage the system's thermo budget. - HP is another company that is now offering AI-enhanced technologies. The OMEN command center includes AI-based tool powered by Mobalytics. It actually analyzes your personal game play to give what they call a gamer performance index, which is a summary of how well you played, broken down to skills including farming, fighting and team play. Once the AI works to determine your unique GPI, you're provided with specific pointers and resources to help you play more like the pros and finally rank above bronze. - Dell's launched their AI solution called Dell Optimizer. This is an App that does a number of things. For one, it analyzes user behavior and optimizes applications so they have better performance. It also improves battery run time based on charge patterns and improved usage. When critically low on battery, the stopper will preserve resources such as dimming the screen back light. This is great for me when I escape out of my home office and take a call from my back deck. In addition, your PC will automatically select the best charging policy, which Dell says provides up to a 35% charge in 20 minutes. Dell Optimizer also improves your user authentification, by sensing a user's presence with the proximity sensor. This provides faster sign in and improves security. - Cloud AI is another term you may have heard. Cloud AI enablement allows AI to scale beyond, what would otherwise be possible, on just your local device. Also known as the Intelligent Edge. This allows software to scale and uncover insights across a considerably larger data set. Much of the AI we interact with daily is cloud-based, such as with search engines, automatic content recommendations, and more. - An example of this is with Gigabyte and their Aero 15 laptop, which takes advantage of Microsoft's Azure AI. A common problem with gaming notebooks is their thermal constraints. There's often a compromise between battery life, cooling capacity, and performance. This is where AI comes in. For example, with a game that only utilizes part of the CPU, but all of the GPU. AI could decrease CPU power limits and increase GPU power limits. While it is possible to do all of this manually, the AI is designed to do it on the fly so you don't have to open so many menus. Unique thing in this scenario is the data is shared to Microsoft as your AI cloud service. As time progresses, and more data is gathered and analyzed, Azure AI is able to leverage this large data set to become better at optimizing performance overtime for multiple users. Gigabyte has found that this solution improved performance by 5-8% on most gaming benchmarks. - Security offerings through Microsoft are another great example of leveraging Cloud AI. The AI capabilities built into Microsoft's security solutions are trained on 8 trillion daily threat signals and the insights of 3500 security experts. Custom algorithms and machine learning models make and learn from billions of queries each day. Humans simply cannot deal with the volumes of queries that large without the help of tools like AI. As a result, Microsoft security solutions help identify and respond to threats 50% faster than was possible just 12 months ago. - There are so many great applications of AI right now, and these are just a few of them. Many new devices today are coming with AI technologies, which will help user experience, battery life, performance, security, and more. - AI is still in it's infancy and it's exciting to see how the technology will continue to improve and evolve over the coming years. That's it for this episode! We hope you found it valuable. See you next time on Tech Trends! 