 AI and Learning a presentation by Dr. Lutz Michel There is no other technological development that is currently booming as much in Germany as the topic of Artificial Intelligenceì ñ ÑAIì for short. It is not only the media where new contributions be found daily. Politics, as well, has given a lot of attention to AI lately. For example, the German Federal Parliament has created a commission of inquiry on Artificial Intelligence last year. And for the years 2019 and 2020, the Federal Government has allocated one billion euros for additional measures in this field of research. After digitisation, AI is thus the next big topic to touch and affect all areas of life. Experts think that the way we live and work will be changed by AI in such a fundamental manner as has been the case in the past, with the invention of the steam engine or electrification. Of course, we at Learning Insights ask ourselves if AI will also change our way of learning. And if there are already current examples for this. I would like to add a few thoughts on this now. What is AI, anyway? Artificial Intelligence is defined as Ñtechnical systems with characteristics and functions that are regarded as displays of intelligence in humans.ì So it is more than for example a robot that converts a source code into human-like actions. AI systems are capable of using learning to autonomously improve their attainment of defined goals. For example by first learning all possible chess moves and then using them to develop a system of algorithms that enables them to checkmate a grandmaster. This became famous as one of the first spectacular use cases of machine learning. Deep Learning on the other hand is a part of machine learning which uses neural networks and huge amounts of data for decision-making.  The learning methods are oriented towards the workings of the human brain which, too, consists of interconnected neurons. Artificial Intelligence: machines Before I talk about the use of AI in the context of human learning, I will show you selected examples for AI that can illustrate the potential of these methods in other areas. Here, you see exemplary uses of AI in mechanical engineering. Here, AI currently allows the development of an entirely new business model for a printing press producer. The interconnected steering software provides data of more than ten thousand machines worldwide. The data can be used to precisely predict wear and tear of a machine part. ÑPredictive Maintenanceì is what we call this possibility that is based on AI and specifically on Deep Learning. The self-driving car is another use of AI that is already part of our world ñ albeit not yet in private transport. Self-driving trucks already exist, for example in a container terminal near Hamburg. But AI also poses ethical and juridical questions which become especially clear in this example. Algorithms that ultimately decide about life and death ñ for example of pedestrians in traffic ñ have been the subject of public debate for quite some time. And here one more example for Artificial intelligence and machines. The Boeing 737 Max 8 pictured here has been grounded because errors in the ñ AI based ñ steering systems are assumed to have led to accidents with many fatalities. The pilots tried in vain to countersteer. If we are dealing with a programming error or failings in the pilotsí training has not been finally clarified. Artificial Intelligence in knowledge work Not only when it comes to machines but also in knowledge work is AI already widely used. From call centers to the medical field and journalism, examples can be found. Here, we see a call center where so-called agents answer calls that come in on the phone or via e-mail. More and more often, chat bots are being used here, meaning a semi-autonomous, programmed software for machine-human communication. These AI based tools which ìunderstandî human speech do not replace call center agents, but they help the client to get the right answer faster. Medical diagnostics is another field in which an intense debate on the usefulness of AI is currently going on. Here, too, the human ñ in this case the radiologist ñ is not being replaced. But AI allows, for example, to sort X-ray images according to their urgency. To do so, an extensive neuronal network has been trained with more than 470.000 images and diagnoses. The machine ìunderstandsî radiology reports in natural language, and it can connect diagnoses to certain characteristics of a picture. A huge relief for medical specialists, as you can imagine. In journalism, local weather forecasts or sports results are already created by specially trained machines. Here, too, the main purpose is to support humans, not to replace them. The time that a journalist saves at analysing or localising of data can be used for writing better, more reader-friendly texts. Artificial intelligence in education Independently of how the different AI solutions are regarded in different cultures, artificial intelligence also plays an increasing role in human learning. Humanoid robots, face recognition, chat bots and adaptive learning are the keywords. Imagine that you enter an auditorium and, in the front, you donít see the lecturer but instead a humanoid robot. One like "Pepper" who you can see in this picture. This is not yet the reality, but at Marburg University, this robot who not only understands human speech but also uses facial expressions and gestures is used as an ìassistant in academic teachingî. This, at least, is how Professor Handke calls the robot he programmed. In addition to individual student counselling, Pepper also helps with exam preparation, for example. Face recognition belongs to the currently greatest achievements of Artificial Intelligence. In China especially, this technology is used intensively with the aid of a dense network of cameras in the public space. For learning, the evaluation of face recordings by means of AI is already in use in selected Chinese schools. Cameras in the classroom capture the pupilsë behaviour and analyse the moving images with the help of algorithms. Both pupils and teachers then receive individual feedback on how attentively the pupils followed the lesson. On the last LEARNTEC fair, a Ñcoach botì has been introduced by Thorsten Hardieﬂ which serves learners as something like a personal assistant who guides them through a longer learning process. Each learner gets their own, tailored story that runs like a common thread through the learing content. The machine ñ which might be a PC, a mobile device or a voice-controlled virtual assistant ñ for instance asks questions for reflection or motivates to immerse oneself in a learning unit. An ÑAdaptive Learning Platformì is offered by the American company DreamBox Learning. It has been specially programmed for mathematics lessons. Based on continuous evaluation of individual learner data, students are offered those exercises that are best suited for them. According to a Harvard study, users who have learned with this AI system ñ a total of more than 1.5 million students ñ achieved significantly better results than those who learned in conventional ways. Summary and Outlook We have seen that, in addition to individualisation based on huge amounts of data, it is mainly assistance functions that intelligent machines take on when it comes to learning. This is surely not least due to the advantages humans still have compared to the Artificial Intelligence we created. My final graphic is about this. Here, you can see the four dimensions in which artificial and human intelligence measure their strengths against each other. AI is mainly better at cognitive intelligence. The earlier example of the IBM computer which beat a chess grandmaster can illustrate this. On the other levels, machines will be at a disadvantage for a long time still. This is especially true for emotional and social intelligence which are both crucial for teaching and learning. This concludes my brief overview on AI and the potential of machine learning in different fields. I hope I could spark your interest in this exciting topic. We will keep you updated on new developments in this area. 