 - March 3rd, 2018, we opened the Brooks Cybernic Treatment Center here at Brooks Rehabilitation in Jacksonville. It's the only treatment center that features Cyberdyne's HAL Technology in the United States. When we first were interested in HAL, and we looked at the technology, it was an exoskeleton that utilized biofeedback in order to improve a patient's ability to walk. We found a lot of secondary benefits that we did not expect from patients going through the HAL treatment. We've had patients who had the inability to move their legs at all be able to generate movement in muscles and parts of their legs that HAL was not directly hooked up to. We've had patients who've had changes in cardiovascular endurance that we didn't expect, changes in their spasticity, changes in their ability to control going to the bathroom and detecting when they have to go to the bathroom. They have better upright posture. And we've noticed a very interesting secondary benefit of a patient going through three months of therapy at an hour a day walking at a high intensity is that nearly every single one of our participants has lost weight. - We are looking at expanding into eight additional partner sites, so we're really excited about where that will bring us, as well as possible international relationships. We're also looking at partnering with other hospitals for research on other diagnoses since we've had the ability to treat some off label patients at this point, including stroke which is one of our next steps that we'd like to do in addition to the spinal cord injury population and community. And we're excited for what that looks like for patients and how that can change the future of their rehabilitation. - At this point, we have enrolled 13 participants in the HAL Technology, so that means we've delivered over 500 individual HAL sessions at the Brooks Cybernic Treatment Center since March. We've screened over 150 unique individuals with neurologic impairments around the world. We have patients who are coming to us from all across the United States and staying and utilizing all of our Brooks community programs, as well as the Cybernic Treatment Center, to help them understand how Brooks is a resource for them on their road to recovery. Brooks and UF Health collaborated and came up with a research protocol that got IRB approval in 2018, featuring the HAL Technology with spinal cord injured patients, and we enrolled our first patient in the study in October of this year, and we hopefully have two more participants in January of 2019. The first portion of the year we dedicated to getting out into the community and educating both community members, medical professionals, insurance companies, on what the HAL Technology is and educating them on the HAL Technology and how it can benefit their patients and how it really is a game changer in the technology of what we have as rehabilitation professionals. - In 2019, we're really excited for what the Brooks Cybernic Treatment Center expansion looks like and bringing this technology to more clinics, more physicians, and more individuals as a whole. Another one of our points for 2019 is really expanding our team and the individuals that will be trained to utilize HAL with patients, so training additional clinicians to use HAL will allow us to expand into all other aspects of the Brooks system of care, using it both in the hospital as well as some of our other outpatient centers. - So one of my favorite parts of going out and showing HAL to the community is the reaction that we get from patients and medical professionals. It's very rewarding and it's very interesting to see as a patient comes in for the first time, and they just want to know do I have any sort of a signal in my leg? Am I able to generate movement? Am I able to move the robot? So hooking a patient up to it and letting them see their signals and having a patient who has no ability to really move their legs or a very difficult time moving their legs, hooking them up to the sensors with the robot next to them and then just telling them quite simply go ahead and just move your leg, and all the sudden the robot moves and seeing the patient's eyes light up and grinning from ear to ear that they now have control over something. We've given them control over an area of their body that they hadn't had control of before. 