 Artificial General Intelligence is often called strong AI, But hold on a minute. We aren't talking about swole robot bros. Strong AI isn't about physical prowess, but rather the ability to adapt, plan, and learn, the potential to perform any intellectual task at or above a human ability level. We already encounter plenty of examples of artificial intelligence in day-to-day life, whether it's a search engine, a spoken language recognition program, the virtual bad guy you do battle with on your computer or video game system, or the GPS program that dynamically finds your path home, our lives are filled with AI that do dynamic tasks and do them well, but they are limited. Some of today's common AI can learn to some extent, but the AI playing chess with you on your computer is only going to be concerned with making winning chess moves. It will never have an existential crisis or develop a sudden dedication to the art of growing Bonsai Trees. Some of today's AI tries to do an impersonation of how a general AI might behave, but their shortcomings are often immediately obvious. Big Robot: "Bro, you need to work harder !" As a result, today's AI is often labeled "weak AI." Behind the scenes, large sums of money and resources are being devoted to Artificial General Intelligence research. The most well-known example is Alphabet's Deep Mind, which Elon Musk famously claimed to have invested in out of fear that AI will exterminate humanity. The existence of a true Artificial General Intelligence would raise a number of questions almost too large to compile. Beyond the big philosophical questions of consciousness there are enormous practical concerns: It is one thing to be toting around a half-witted assistant in your pocket, but it becomes another thing entirely when one's virtual assistant often seems more clever than its owner. Would you want to interact with an Artificial General intelligence? Would you trust it? What would you ask it? If you enjoyed this video, like, comment, subscribe, and check out our other videos. Thanks for watching! 