 Hello! Welcome to Emiliusvgs! The world of augmented web reality has revolutionized this 2019. It has grown dramatically with several companies pushing its standardization. One of these companies has been Zappar that always innovates with new features. Today I bring you a tutorial that I have been asked a lot: "how to make augmented reality for web using Zapworks Studio ... Remember this: by using these independent platforms you will have greater control of your brand because you are not subject to the rules imposed by a social network. In addition the WebAR comes to massify the use of augmented reality so that you will no longer need an app to experience it. Let's start! First we need to understand how the zappar WebAR option works now. We go to our online account and you will see that everything stays the same in the work process within Zapworks. What varies will be in the trigger choice. In addition to the typical zapcode that works for apps, we will also have the option to choose the WebAR QR Code that will help you place it everywhere, since a qr code is better known than a zapcode… let's go back to the project and enter the triggers… we will have an interesting function that is: “change the color to that marker and be able to download it in both PNG and SVG”. Now we go to Zapworks Studio ... I recommend you download it with your free account. We will work with augmented reality effects related to face tracking. So in root we will use the tracking called “face group”. This element offers several reference points of the face to work. Now we will go to “symbol definitions” and we will use head mask for better tracking when we want to add objects around the face like helmets, among other things… then we will add the "head mask" into the reference of the "origin" face ... Zapworks also allows you to connect with sketchafab to use 3d objects from its gallery. What I will look for now is helmets… mmm I like this one that is Loki's helmet a great character from the marvel movies. We wait for the object to download, then the option to review the materials to be imported will appear, as well as the animation... the loki helmet will appear in “symbol definitions”, we will drag it towards “origin” too… What we will do now is adjust your scale to make it more realistic ... If you realize, the object looks dark, this is for the import of the material ... there are ways to "fix this", one of them is to create a specific light, so let's go to "root", then light and use "Directional light". I increase the intensity and we will also change the color of the light. We will continue to adjust until we have a decent result ... Now we are going to publish it so that we test the webAR function, when publishing we will choose the trigger that will be related to our work. In this case we will use the "webAR". We'll publish it and try! I'll enter to this web and load the example  Now we will make a small example about another tracking. This is called face paint and as the name implies is to add virtual paint on our face . We will use the template with the same name. We see that the face paint has been created, this is easily obtained within the tracking it's perfectly created to add the materials. In this case, the aggregate material is one called zappafacepaint ... To achieve a good job it is necessary to have a reference image. This is the image that zappar provides and we can use it within photoshop to make our next designs ... The work is similar to the others created within Spark AR or lens studio. We will paint the areas we want to make up so they have a specific color. We return to the original example The result that you work in Photoshop is added in materials and would look like this, as you see it in zapworks…. Now we can see it from webAR.  What do you think of these two simple examples? Face tracking is a worldwide trend that is generating quite a few followers. I leave you this platform called Zapworks On which you can work and have a dependency that only the WebAR can generate. I think 2020 will be the year of the WebAR, we'll see its total evolution. This is all for now. Emiliusvgs says goodbye. Byee! 