 Hello! You are in Emiliusvgs! Trying on virtual shoes is one of the most interesting experiences that can exist today because it combines ecommerce with augmented reality and this allows a direct increase in sales. Today we'll talk about Snap ML with Lens Studio in order to create this great result. As always, I leave my files on my Patreon. Are you redy? Let's get started! Virtual Try on is a huge commercial use trend that is growing during this period of isolation. It basically consists of testing commercial products to see how it looks. So that we can then buy it online. In this way, the pain points of a common purchasing process are reduced. There are several virtual try-ons, from glasses, earrings to sneakers. This last point is the most attractive because of the tremendous potential that exists. Brands such as Nike, Puma, Adidas have developed experiences of this type. "Wannaby" is one of the companies that has made this virtual try on possible; and it is this same one that has contributed to Lens Studio to create a template dedicated to generating foot tracking. Let's work on it! Lens Studio has a series of examples with SnapML machine learning. This information is on their website and of course there is the foot tracking example. Here we can download the files to work on it, but beware, apart from recognizing the feet as markers or triggers of the experience, the object to be displayed is necessary; and that is a necessary process to explain. There are two ways here: to develop it entirely in 3D. Where your skills in blender or another platform will help you create an object with its respective mesh, texture and optimization so that it can be displayed correctly on platforms such as Lens Studio or Spark AR. The other way is to digitize an object that already exists in the world such as these shoes and carry out a photogrammetry work to obtain the 3D object quickly. I opted for this second option. To learn more about the process I have made a video on photogrammetry, I recommend that you you watch it. I will quickly explain. We need a set of photos taken of the object. There are more than 50 photos. Then these will be used in a program like Metashape. Depending on the program you use you can validate the quality of these photos. This helps us to be able to discard images that have been badly taken or that are not so precise. Then we are going to align the photos. Once this process is completed you will see the first advances. At this time we will create the dense cloud, then we will create the 3d mesh. What do you think? Looks good doesn't it? We just need to add texture. We wait a few minutes and that's it! We clean some parts of the object and then we will convert it into FBX format. We remove the camera option ... then we select "embed texture" and we save it. Now let's go to Blender! In Blender what we will basically do is clean the unnecessary vertices. Move the shoes towards the center and of course I order it to be able to work it correctly. I go to the option to visualize texture and we begin the cleaning process. For this video I have worked quickly to have an initial version without high detail. However I have taken care to erase the unnecessary edges. I erase the vertices. We must take care of each part of the shoe. Now here is an important element. For this special case. I am going to export each shoe independently in FBX format. Do not forget also to obtain the texture that you have used for later. Then you will understand why this process! We open the foot tracking template. This template created by WannaBy not only gives us the foot tracking file plus a simple 3d object but also has interactive elements such as the color modification by touching both feet and other additional details ... It's very good! for this case we will only make the simple change, later you can do something superior. At the point of "Left foot binding" is the 3D file and it is right there where we can replace our shoes. The same happens with the "right foot binding" and if we enter more precisely we will see the occluder. More below we will find more information related to the "full frame region", where we will see the previous image that will tell us to look for the feet. At this point we can hide the information and only leave the essential elements such as the foot tracking controller. That foot tracking controller we will see how it connects the foot binding on the right and left, as well as the machine learning file. By the way, up here is the ML Component where we will see the main model also called "foot tracking". As a final step, we see the triggers that will allow us to activate interactive elements. For this simple example we will also hide it. Now let's go to "resource". In example, asset we will find a file called "foot". We are going to join our shoes with this example file in Blender! It is not absolutely necessary to carry out this part. We can directly use our 3D files and connect to Lens Studio, but for didactic subjects I will explain it. This is the example that comes out in blender! Two shoes and two calves that act as an occlusion file. Here we import our two files previously called "shoes". We remove these shoes and place ours. The importance of connecting our 3d file with these occluder is that it allows us to organize correctly all the experience that we work on. We are going to fast-forward this job that clearly consists of coordinating the appropriate spaces for the distribution of the elements. Don't forget to export it in FBX. Let's go back to Lens Studio. We will import our FBX file called Shoes_lensstudio into the scene. We will zoom to the scene to see the current 3d objects up close. We will remove the material from each shoe. We will start our work with shoe left. We will add our 3d file. Inside our file it presents its own hierarchy for each shoe and its occluder. We chose this called "model". It already appeared in the experience but it is not seen. We will try to adjust it to the scene. It may take a few minutes. After correctly placing our shoe, we must also guide our occluder, in this way. Now to our model. We will add our material ... for that we create one with a diffuse property. To the diffuse material we will add the texture of our shoe. Which we will import next. That's it! It was good! Now it's time to do the same for the other shoe. Ready, we have the result on both feet. Let's try it! A little more detail is missing and it is perfect! Remember that this is just an experimental project done quickly to explain the functionalities to you! The final execution is up to you! What did you think of this tutorial? Thank you very much for getting here. Remember that this work and many more are on my Patreon! This is all for the moment, Emiliusvgs says goodbye. Bye!! 