 Hi! You are on Emiliusvgs! Today I will tell you about one of the most anticipated tools by many. This is UNITY MARS. We will talk about the most relevant of this new tool to generate augmented reality and we will create a simple APK. As always I leave my files on my Patreon! Are you ready? Let's start! Unity Mars is a tool expected for several months this allows you to create experiences with any object for any scenario and of course, multiplatform That is, we can create games, sales, marketing and cultural apps in a more intuitive way because we can combine code with element visualization without leaving the unity editor To access this tool we can enter this page Unity Mars is not free but they give you 45 free days to try its full potential On this website you will discover all the relevant information about the project I recommend that you read the frequently asked questions and if you have doubts write in the forum We click on "try it for free" and follow all the necessary steps such as adding your personal and company information then you will receive an email In this email you will see the installer and its implementation process Open Unity Hub If you don't have it, I recommend a video about it we click on New and we will choose the option “2019.3” we choose a good name! It will load the project then we select the "MARS installer" to import the tool. Before creating the experience with Mars you must have these points You must use Unity 2019 in the package manager you must have ARcore and also have the AR Foundation The versions can change in time Remember to have these packages installed later we will see an example about it Now we will go to windows MARS option we will use Mars Panel In the Mars Panel there will see the work elements first we will see the types of experiences horizontal, vertical, image and face then we will see the "primitives" elements and also the visualizer elements let's put it here We see in simulation controls an empty space We go to MARS and click on "simulation view" we also integrate this view on the screen Here we can choose different scenarios I like this livingroon In this space we will see a message we need MARS Session to load the experience so we will do that right click, we go to Mars and we choose Mars Session it was already loaded in the hierarchy Here we can inspect, and see its properties Now we will create the space detection visualizer in Mars Panel we can choose "plane visualizer" we see how this mesh was loaded we click it on play to see the experience To move around the space use AWSD and right click Here we see how the planes are detected We are going to show the templates that also appear in Mars Panel we will use the "tabletop" Here we see a cube positioned on a table the point cloud is almost invisible we can modify it in the material size in Set we will find the cube experience In floor we recognize the first surface We can change the color to understand better we can also do the same with table The cube appears in the last part of the hierarchy let's try it Look at how he recognized the floor first and then the table and automatically the cube appears it looks great! We are going to export the work in APK Mars also has a function to recognize that all the work has been done correctly We see this error message we are going to solve it The first thing we should do is notice that it is in the android option if not, we change it Let's check again I get a warning about ARcore Remember about the packages that were necessary to have installed can we check that we are missing? Effectively we needed to install arcore we will install it After that we are going to player setting we add a name in company name then we are going to modify other setting we have to eliminate vulkan within graphics then you have to modify the minimum api level use version 24 and up now we are going to click on build and run and obviously your smartphone must be connected via usb and in developer mode Look how it recognizes the table and the floor and then generate the cube and what has caught my attention is that we can enjoy the occlusion try and create different experiences what did you think of Unity MARS? would you like me to talk more about this tool? Give me a good like and subscribe this is all for the moment Emiliusvgs says goodbye byee 