 Hello! How are you? Welcome to Emiliusvgs. Quarantine, in many parts of the world, has made us take out our most creative side. My interest in virtualizing physical elements through photogrammetry has taken a certain turn. I discovered how to use the Geographic Information System (GIS) to recreate 3d maps with augmented reality. I've been experimenting with this technique for several days and I think it's great to show you this process. Learn to use all the available elements at your fingertips. Let's start! GIS is a set of tools that allow you to work with large amounts of data from the real world, linked to a spatial reference. We can include 2d, 3d, river, cartographic maps and a long etc. A clear example of this, it's the tools of Google Maps or OpenStreetMap. This is a fascinating world and that has allowed me to complement my work as a researcher of augmented reality. The software that I will use is blender and the tool is called "Blender GIS". An addon that is easy to use and very powerful. To start the work I need to go to the project's github. Blender GIS has been on the market for a few years. Each time it is renewed and offers greater possibilities for creation. We will proceed to download it in zip format. Then we go to Blender and enter preferences. In addons we click "install". We look for our file and install it. We check the box and display its information. We will choose a folder for the cache folder. This part is relevant to the order of our work. After doing that we will realize that an additional item appears in the menu called GIS. Now we click on that menu and we will see the option "Web GeoData". We will find three elements: Basemap, which is the selector of the map to work; GET OSM, this will help us to import data from Open Street Data and then we will see SRTM, which is the NASA query to show elevations of the surfaces. The 3 fields are widely used. Let's start with the basemap. There we can choose between selecting data from Google Maps, Open street map, Bing Map, the services of the ERSI company and Open Street Map with the WMS information. We will use Google Map with the satellite information layer. Now we will see a map, we can zoom in using the scroll. We use the letter "G" to choose the destination. I will indicate the area related to the snowy Huascaran of Peru. When you are sure of the space you want to work on, press the letter "E" to export only that box. The item named "Export_GOOGLE_SAT" or something related to it will appear in the worker hierarchy. Now we return to the "web geodata" menu and use the SRTM option to add elevations to the terrain. This operation may take a few seconds. Look how beautiful it looks! Now we are going to modify properties. We can increase the perception of "mountain" and volume a little more, so we will modify this element with only 1.3. Now I will apply the modifications to continue editing it. I will change the working mode to "edit". Press "A" to select the entire element and I'll extrude with the "E" key and move the mouse down. It's taking more shape. I imagine what this would look like if it went through a 3D printing machine. It will be great! We already have our file worked. We will move on to Spark AR. In Spark AR we will add the file worked in Blender that I called "Huascarán". Always remember that I disabled automatic compression of the textures. Then I add a fixed target tracker. In its texture I will use my logo "Emiliusvgs". Now I drag the 3d file into the hierarchy of the target tracker. We make a little adjustments. To add more detail we can use a plane with the referential image of the snowy. This is a simple example to give you ideas of the potential that exists in combining GIS with Augmented Reality. I use the plan with the image of the Huascaran and adjust it to the project so that it has a good appearance. Finally I add some light to make the 3d object look much better. For this I will use "ambient light" and I'm going to try it. I want to show you something else I will use a part of the city where I live: Lima, Peru. We will use a point in the city that contains an atypical setting like this: a soccer stadium, houses and a giant hill. For those who do not know, the capital of Peru was built on a desert and that is why we have this geography. I already used the SRTM to give it volume. Now I will use an additional step. The OSM to map buildings, roads, natural elements, among others. Remember that the Open Street Map is a free project, therefore the information will sometimes not be complete because depends on the community. We can hide the new layers and understand the information that has been added. Now we are going to pass it to Spark AR. We will do the same steps we did before. We open the file and at this stage we can also hide the data layer that we do not want to show. Everything is fine, now we will make some adjustments. We will go to view it from the smartphone. You can use GIS with various parts of the world. For example Manhattan, apply the same process and test it in different tools, not only Spark AR, it can also be Lens Studio, Unity and more. The options are countless. Remember to check the laws of each country to validate the ability to use GIS commercially. As always I leave the archives in Patreon for you to study and investigate further. If you enjoyed this video, please, like it and subscribe. I will soon release a follow-up. This is all for now. Emiliusvgs says goodbye. Byee! 