 Through this app, we will tell you the story  how Dachau Concentration Camp was liberated by American troops on April 29th, 1945. Hold your smart phone or tablet upright. You are now standing at almost exactly  the same spot as the photographer that day. You can position the photo precisely  over the building with the entrance gate. You can get an idea of how full the camp is  just from this photo. Over 32,000 people were imprisoned in Dachau Concentration Camp on the day it was liberated. The shot was taken shortly after the liberation. We do not know who the prisoners on this photo are. "With this digitial project the Bayerischer Rundfunk  wants to reach out to younger audiences. By telling personal stories by liberaters and liberated we want to keep the memory alive. We all know the black and white photographs  but it is very impressive and touching to see them before you, in life size. And this is our main goal: To make this day more accessible to a modern audience." On this photo you can see malnourished prisoners, ravaged by disease, holding on to each other for support. They are known as "Muselmänner" in  concentration camp slang, a word that referred to completely starving,  lethargic prisoners who were closer to death than life. "For us in the Dachau Concentration Camp Memorial Site the augmented reality app 'The Liberation' is something completely new.  We aim to reach a better historical understanding and media competency together with our visitors. The app was developed  with a younger audience in mind. With the app they have the opportunity to experience  this particular moment in time, the liberation of the camp and its prisoners, right here on site and at the same time  via a digital means." On the day of the liberation, April 29th, 1945, most prisoners stay inside the totally overcrowded barracks. Many are too weak, but lots are afraid too. "The tour with the app did appeal to me. What I liked in particular was the way  the app augmented the reality with historical images, which were integrated seamlessly into this space. All senses are required as there are also fitting soundbites." On this photo you can see some of the liberated prisoners celebrating together with US soldiers.  An expression of joy and relief. Most prisoners are far too weak to run  to the American troops. "'Zaubar' developed the augmented reality app. Nearly all current smartphones allow  for augmented reality nowadays. The app is available for iPhone and Android. Just go to the Play Store or App Store and find the app 'Die Befreiung AR' and download it." How Dachau concentration camp was liberated. Narrated in augmented reality. 