 Hi, I'm Ian Charnas, and I love family entertainment centers. I love playing the video games, I love riding the go-karts. I just wish I could do them both at the same time. Hmm... Maybe you've noticed the title of this video! This is 2019, augmented reality is like a thing now. Why can't I put on a Microsoft Hololens, get in a go-kart, and when I look at my friends, I see video game characters, and when I look out onto the racetrack, I see power-ups that I can pick up... And hey, the go-karts are electric! So why can't I make some electronics so the video game can control the speed of the go-karts so that if I get a speed boosting power-up in the video game, my actual go-kart goes faster in real life... And if I hit my friends with something in the video game, their go-kart actually slows down in real life... It's like a real life version of Mario Kart. Why can't I do that? Hint... I mean, we did that. Let's roll that footage. [upbeat music] Come on, what are you doing? Roll the footage!! [upbeat music] [go-karts revving] [electronic beeping] [upbeat music] So everything in that video was totally real. The video game was real. The go-karts were actually being remotely controlled through some electronics. What's next? How can we get this to go-kart tracks near you? We need a theme park or video game company. If you're out there, go ahead and give me a call, send me an email, whatever. I've got the 3D models, I've got the music, I've got the sound effects, I've got the electronics that remotely control the go-kart. I've got the relationship built up with the go-kart manufacturer. I even have a provisional patent application on the electronic system that remotely controls the speed of the go-kart in a real life video game using augmented reality. Let's make this available to the masses. And if you are the masses and you want to see this at a go-kart track near you, like this video, subscribe to my channel, and share this with your friends so that we can show that there's a demand for a real life version of Mario Kart. Until then, I'll see you at the track. Uh, did I get it? Don't forget to hit the Like button and hit the Subscribe button, and also hit the bell icon. You have to do all three things now. It's 2019, we have a lot of responsibility. I'm sorry, I didn't make YouTube. You've got to do it. [upbeat music] 