RISK FACTORSThe following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective. Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our BusinessWe depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our businessWe derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have an adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately 20 percent, 24 percent and 27 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts.Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures. Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulationsGovernment contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies.  In addition, violations of unrelated laws and statutes can lead to debarment and other penalties.  If we fail to comply with procurement rules and regulations and other laws and statutes, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from United States government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently.Operating margins may be negatively impacted by reduction in sales or by a change in the mix of products soldOur expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term. Our operating margins vary by product and substantial changes in the mix of products sold could also have a negative impact on our operating margins.We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assetsOur industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. As of December 31, 2014, our intangible assets, including goodwill, totaled $686.5 million and represented approximately 29 percent of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible 19assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face risks from international sales and business activitiesWe market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, international sales accounted for 50 percent, 50 percent and 49 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia. Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including:•the imposition of and changes to governmental controls;•restrictions on the export of  technology;•trade restrictions;•difficulty in collecting receivables;•inadequate protection of intellectual property;•labor union activities;•changes in tariffs and taxes;•restrictions on repatriation of earnings;•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;•failure to comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and•political and economic instability.No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face risks from currency fluctuationsHistorically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customersExport licenses are required from United States government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 for export of many of our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these licenses. The aftermath of 9/11 and heightened tensions with other countries (which shift and evolve over time),  has led to heightened government scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets has resulted in lengthened review periods for our license applications, including in countries where we have historically made significant sales. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining these licenses would prevent or delay us from selling our products outside the United States and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditionOur operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company’s products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, changes in government spending levels 20and/or priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, industrial or consumer spending behavior.In recent years, our performance has been negatively impacted by reduced spending by United States government agencies, global economic weakness, and the Eurozone crisis. Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictableOur business depends on the demand for our products and solutions in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. In the past, the demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders;•variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular quarter;•the size and timing of new contract awards;•the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results result from:•the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments;•the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and•the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration.Competition in our markets is intense and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our businessCompetition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claimsWe include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Technology and Intellectual PropertyOur inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our businessOur ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, 21copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold world-wide patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the markets we serve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours.Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We have been the subject of patent and other intellectual property litigation in the past and cannot be sure that we will not be subject to such litigation in the future. Similarly, there exists the possibility we will assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding in which we are a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new marketsThe markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptionsIn the regular course of business as a United States government contractor, we face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events and failures of our technology tools and systems.  In addition, we are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality.  Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.  We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own.  In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly.  Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact in recent years.  Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions.  These technologies are subject to failure and the user’s inability to have such technologies properly supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies.  Accordingly, we have invested in highly skilled information technology resources to appropriately identify and deter threats and monitor and mitigate potential risks.  We maintain information security policies and procedures for managing all systems.  However, while we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures and controls, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data.Although we have in the past and continue to be subject to cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions, to date none has had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Nonetheless, in the future, 22these types of events could disrupt our operations and customer and other third party information technology systems.  They also could require significant management attention and resources, negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and challenge our eligibility for future work on sensitive or classified systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, some of our proprietary software and products use or contain open source and third party software which may unbeknownst to us contain defects or viruses that pose unintended risks to our customers.  These risks if not effectively mitigated or controlled could materially harm our business or reputation.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure and OrganizationOur future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnelOur future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We must successfully manage a complex global organizationAs we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially. We currently design, manufacture and market numerous product lines in locations worldwide. Significant management time and effort is required to effectively manage the increased complexity of the business and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, or labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operationsWe have made thirteen acquisitions of various sizes in the past five years. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is likely that we will make additional acquisitions in the future. Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity. Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above. Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders’ ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, or that any such acquisition or investment will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.75 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our term loan, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibilityOur ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which 23are beyond our control. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture. In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable. In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately.Changes in our effective income tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operationsOur future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including:•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;•adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;•increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;•changes in available tax credits;•changes in share-based compensation expense;•changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles;•changes in foreign tax rates or agreed upon foreign taxable base; and/or•the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes.Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if any assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor.State of Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholdersOther companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our Company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of the State of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable.