RISK FACTORSThe following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our BusinessWe depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our businessWe derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts.Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures. Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold, including the defense spending priorities of the United States government agencies. If annual appropriations bills are not timely enacted for fiscal year 2020 or beyond, the United States government may continue to operate under a continuing resolution. This could restrict new contract or program starts, presenting resource allocation challenges and placing limitations on some planned program budgets. We may also face another United States government shutdown of unknown duration. If a prolonged government shutdown of the Department of Defense were to occur, it could result in program cancellations, disruptions and/or stop work orders and could limit the United States government’s ability effectively to progress programs and to make timely payments, limit our ability to obtain necessary export licenses to ship internationally, and limit our ability to perform on our United States government contracts and successfully compete for new work. Consequently, significant delays or reductions in appropriations; long-term funding under a continuing resolution; an extended debt ceiling breach or government shutdown; and/or future budget and program decisions, among other items, may negatively impact our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulationsGovernment contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine and non-routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies. In addition, violations of these regulations or other unrelated laws and statutes can lead to debarment and other penalties. If we fail to comply with procurement rules and regulations and other laws and statutes, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from United States government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently. An adverse action by the United States government could also result in lost sales to non-governmental customers who might disqualify us as a result of such adverse action. The impairment or loss of our government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19Operating margins may be negatively impacted by reduction in sales or by a change in the mix of products soldOur expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term. Our operating margins vary by product and substantial changes in the mix of products sold could also have a negative impact on our operating margins.We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assetsOur industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.We face risks from international sales and business activitiesWe market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, international sales accounted for 47 percent, 47 percent and 46 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia. Certain of these products, particularly our thermal and infrared products, are subject to substantial government regulation and licensing and end use restrictions throughout the world.  Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including:•the imposition of and changes to governmental licensing restrictions and controls impacting our technology and products;20•restrictions and prohibitions on the export of technology and products, including any applicable changes in regulation prohibiting the sale of certain of our products to certain end users without a license;•international trade restrictions;•difficulty in collecting receivables and governmental restrictions with respect to currency;•inadequate protection of intellectual property;•labor union activities;•changes in tariffs and taxes;•restrictions on repatriation of earnings;•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;•risks, costs, impacts and obligations associated with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable to us, and laws applicable to global trade and United States exports and costs and penalties from violations of such laws and related regulations, including the costs associated with required remedial and other increased compliance activity;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and•instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and potential impact due to the upcoming exit of the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") from the European Union (the "EU"), colloquially referred to as "Brexit".Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.  No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions. These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements. For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “SEC Order”). The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation. Pursuant to the SEC Order, we are obligated to “cease and desist” from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs. Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.  On April 24, 2018, we entered into a Consent Agreement with the United States Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”) to resolve allegations regarding the unauthorized export of technical data and defense services to dual and third country nationals in certain of our facilities, the failure to properly use and manage export licenses and export authorizations, and failures to report certain payments under 22 CFR Part 130 in potential violation of ITAR. The Consent Agreement has a four-year term and provides for: (i) a civil penalty of $30 million with $15 million of this amount suspended on the condition that the funds have or will be used for Department-approved Consent Agreement remedial compliance measures, (ii) the appointment of an external Special Compliance Official to oversee compliance with the Consent Agreement and the ITAR; (iii) two external audits of our ITAR compliance program; and (iv) continued implementation of ongoing remedial compliance measures and additional remedial compliance measures related to automated systems and ITAR compliance policies, procedures, and training.  During the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, we recorded a $15 million charge for the portion of the penalty that is not subject to suspension. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining amounts payable of $3.5 million and $10.5 million have been recorded in other current liabilities and  pension and other long-term liabilities, respectively. We expect recent and future investments in remedial compliance measures will be sufficient to cover the $15 million suspension amount.21As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that we voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations (which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement), cooperated in DDTC’s review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.We face risks from BrexitBrexit, which is scheduled to take place on March 29, 2019, has created uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. A draft withdrawal agreement was published in November 2018, but we are still uncertain about the final agreements they will reach on topics such as financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration laws, and employment laws. We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in Europe, a portion of which reside in the U.K. and therefore enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the EU. The lack of clarity about Brexit and the future U.K. laws and regulations creates uncertainty for us, as the outcome of these negotiations may affect our business and operations. Additionally, there also is a risk that other countries may decide to leave the EU. The uncertainty surrounding Brexit not only potentially affects our business in the U.K. and the EU, but may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the European euro or British pound sterling could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency, such as our multicurrency credit facility.We face risks from currency fluctuationsHistorically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customersExport licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services. Thermal and infrared products and technical data have been subject to the ITAR and EAR, historically under United States Munitions List ("USML") Category XII and Commerce Control List ("CCL") Category 6. The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR. This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted. The United States export licensing environment has been affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the aftermath of 9/11, the rise of terrorism and the changing geopolitical environment, heightened tensions with other countries (which shift and evolve over time), and the United States reliance on the tactical advantage of the night-time war fighter. Some of these factors have affected the thermal imaging and infrared technology industry overall while others have impacted us directly.  In addition, the Consent Agreement and related submissions and other communications concerning our licensing posture overall have led to heightened scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets and, in some cases, highlight DDTC’s focus on the manner in 22which we handle exports of our products, technical data and services subject to the ITAR. In addition, concerns with respect to potential diversion of certain of our products to prohibited end users and countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States government has caused the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security to restrict our ability to sell 9hz thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce.Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up information, due diligence requests or additional limitations on our sale to third parties. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business.  Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditionOur operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for our products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, changes in government spending levels and/or priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, industrial or consumer spending behavior.In recent years, our performance has been negatively impacted by reduced spending by United States government agencies, global economic weakness, and the Eurozone crisis. Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, there is uncertainty around the implementation of Brexit and its impact on us and global economic conditions generally.Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictableOur business depends on the demand for our products and solutions in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. In the past, the demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders;•variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular fiscal quarter;•the size and timing of new contract awards;•the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results are an outcome of:•the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments;•the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.Competition in our markets is intense and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our businessCompetition in the diverse markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, 23research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claimsWe include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims.  It also could disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it will be sufficient or will continue to be available on acceptable terms.Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profitsMany contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract. We have historically experienced variances in the components of backlog related to delivery delays or cancellations resulting from customer-specific circumstances, external market factors and economic factors beyond our control, and we may experience more delays or cancellations in the future. Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized. If our backlog fails to materialize, we could experience a reduction in revenues and a decline in profitability, which could result in a deterioration of our financial position and liquidity.Significant tariffs, restrictions on imports or other trade barriers between the United States and various countries, most significantly China, may impact our revenue and results of operationsIn July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of Chinese imports that currently face tariffs of 10 percent. These tariffs may increase to 25 percent in March 2019 if the United States and China cannot reach an agreement on various related matters. These tariffs currently affect some of the components of our products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on our other imports, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our manufacturing supply chain to other countries, which could result in disruption to our operations.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our Technology and Intellectual PropertyOur inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our businessOur ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold worldwide patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the 24markets we serve, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours.Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We have been the subject of patent and other intellectual property litigation in the past and cannot be sure that we will not be subject to such litigation in the future. Similarly, there exists the possibility we will assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding in which we are a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new marketsThe markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be a