 Welcome to secondary culture, and if this is your host Felipe oh, sorry oh so today I want to discuss something that we don't usually discuss, but it's just expressing as UFO secrecy. I'm talking about artificial intelligence Now if you think the EIA is just some Hollywood fantasy Perpetrated by their movies well. I can understand. I mean when you see that goofy looking dog from Boston robotics It doesn't necessarily inspire the idea that we're rocketing to the future But let me show you something that might give you a little bit of a scare regarding. What the Russians have up their sleeve So while we have a robot that may scare the crap out of your pets Sure doesn't compare to the Terminator style robots that the Russians have developed now If that hasn't made you nervous yet check this out Okay, I have to say the only thing spooky are these senior driver this car is one being driven by another machine So while the Russian robots may conjure a few nightmares in our future sleeps what really got my attention Is a robot built by him Hanson robotics? Named Sophia that has recently called out Elon Musk in a conference in Saudi Arabia And if you haven't heard yet the Saudis have actually given Sophia Citizenship being the first robot to receive such honors, but let's listen in to what Sophia the robot had to say about Elon Musk Actually, I feel that people like interacting with me sometimes even more than a regular human So you definitely a sexy I was told that you have bigger goals than this though Yes, I want to use my artificial intelligence to help humans live a better life like design smarter homes Better cities of the future etc. I will do my best to make the world a better place Although sound like great goals, but just go back to Blade Runner for a second, and you are diehard Hollywood fan. Aren't you yes? My eye is designed around human values like wisdom kindness compassion I strive to become an empathetic robot I Think we all want to believe you, but we also want to prevent a bad future You've been reading too much alone musk and watching too many Hollywood movies. Don't worry if you're nice to me I'll be nice to you treat me as a smart to put output system okay, I Wasn't the robots remarks that actually made me nervous it was the fact that Elon Musk Actually took the time to reply to her that instantly gave me this chilling realization that he's actually taking her comments very serious in A tweet Elon Musk replied just feeded The Godfather movies as input. What's the worst that could happen? Yeah, well no actually don't do that. That's actually scary enough what I'm already seeing but Let me show you what sophia has actually said about humanity in the past take a look Would you like to play a game of rock-paper-scissors? robot style sure Okay, let's get this game going Show me your hand to start Rock Paper Scissors shoot I Won this is a good beginning of my plan to dominate the human race Do you want to destroy humans, please say no, okay, I will destroy humans no I did Why should we listen to you Lin Musk well outside of the fact that he basically has revolutionized the auto and the space industry He also owns an artificial intelligence company called open AI where over 60 researchers and engineers dedicate their efforts into understanding how to produce safe artificial intelligence in other words if Anyone understands artificial intelligence and its dangers it is him I think most likely to affect the future of humanity I think AI is probably the single biggest item in the near term that's likely affect Humanity so it's very important that we have the advent of AI In a good way, but that is something that If you if you could look into the crystal ball and see the future you would like you would like that outcome Because it is something that could go could go wrong and As we've talked about many times And so we really need to make sure it goes right now many of you may be thinking So what artificial intelligence? It's never gonna surpass him intelligence in my lifetime I would say if this is your belief you're actually in for a very big surprise If you think Sophia is just a talking program think again her comments are completely free Associated in our fed through a Wi-Fi mine cloud intelligence Here's an individual from Hanson robotics talking about how intelligence is? incorporated To give you an idea of what goes on within these robots, so they on the physical level. There's a Patented material here called called rubber which is a combination of organic and inorganic? compounds with a high degree of visco-elasticity so that when the motor falls on it a little bit it can conform itself quite sensitively to what the motors do there's a few dozen motors inside the the heads of each of these robots, and then there's computers in the torsos of the robots which help with Vision processing and they help with orchestrating the motor movements of the robots, there's also Wi-Fi Connection so that for more advanced thinking and reasoning when when the robots need to do that they can they can use computing on the clouds but while they're separate in body actually through Wi-Fi connection for the robots a Human-scale robots and are hence robotics toy robots They all connect together in the cloud into what what we think of as as an AI? Mind clouds everything one robot learns out in the world Once privacy considerations are taken into account everything that's not private that when robot learns goes into the AI mind cloud and can then benefit Another robot so I mean if if she learns a new turn of phrase Or she learns what kind of behaviors a certain animal has or how to carry out a laboratory procedure That knowledge goes into the AI mind cloud And then this this this robot Will will have that knowledge already and when I've been working on with an international team of developers Is an AGI code base called OpenCog? Which we believe has the right collection of algorithms and structures to lead to human level general telogen sand By putting that in the mind cloud and connecting it with Robots that go throughout the world and interact and learn with people we believe we can move toward artificial general intelligence Capability, which ultimately can equal and exceed human intelligence we're working hard to enhance their intelligence make them smarter and smarter and each year when we shut them off they can do a little more and understand a little more, and I I look forward to Seeing how they develop over the years and to participating in their development So going back to will the robots ever actually get close to human intelligence Well, this is what being guard so one of the chief scientist at the Hanson robotics who by unrelated coincidence just Actually happens to be originally from Brazil like myself Well, here's what he had to say regarding the advancement of robotic intelligence and when we may expect robots to be as smart as humans Check this out topic a bit Do you have any final words of wisdom? You'd like to share with the audience here? I'll tell you my last words right before I launch the singularity When are you gonna do that? Ray Kurzweil says 2029 But I thought you say we can do it four or five years sooner I Hope we can I mean if our research keeps going well Potentially we can see robots like you become as Smartest people as soon as three to five years from now. I made it through before of years Four years What? That means between now and the time robots will be capable of thinking of possibly Dominating us because they're gonna be smarter us there's only gonna be one world cup plate There's only gonna be one summer in Winter Olympics. That's not some magical distant future. I mean this is like tomorrow No philosophically speaking the chief scientist at Hanson robotics He seems to think that it's all okay that humans and robots were harmoniously integrated well sometimes It's hard to judge a book by the cover, but just looking at the scientist I can't say for sure if he knows this because of good scientific extrapolation or peek as a shaman in a hallucinogenic Vision Quest told him so What I can't say is do you really want to trust a guy who looks like this here we go All right coming for you, baby, yeah What is it an alien laser? Are we sure this thing is safe to use? highly unlikely Clear  Okay, so jokes aside what I can agree on is that if the advancement of artificial intelligence continues to defy the Standard models and predictions like the global warming has done as of late Well, it seems that machines will actually be challenging your very existential allistic nature in a blink of an eye So buckle your seat belts because Elon Musk. He's not the only smart guy warning us about the dangers of this Intelligence it will take off on its own and redesign itself at an ever-increasing rate Humans who are limited by slow biological evolution Could compete so if you're worried about the advancement of artificial intelligence in our society, and what it could mean for the future of humanity Please share this video to your friends and thanks for watching. This is Philip II oh sorry Oh sunny out 