 Thank you for having me. It’s nice to see some of old and new friends. Hopefully you can’t get something from my sharing, if you have any questions or whatever I will try my best to answer because I’m just an average person. First of all the topic is about AI Research. So what does that mean? Why do we need AI research? But before, disclaimer first. All of these are personal opinions, does not reflect the views of the companies that I work for. This is important, very important! What is AI? First of all, who here work around AI field? So we know, just roughly. AI, narrow AI? Don’t be shy, for instance we make….. what? There’s few, looks like lack of audience participation. In my opinion AI’s definition is constantly changing, if in the earlier times we’re able to solve a chess game for example, in the past we might consider it as AI, many years ago, while actually it just broad for search. Nowadays maybe in Deepmind we can do Superhuman Atari. Anyone know Atari games? Atari? No? It’s like Dingdong games here. Like Street Fighter, err not exactly Street Fighter, more like Kungfu, anyone know? Nintendo Kungfu that you must jump, and kick, if not what game was it, the one there’s a block and we have to move it to make the ball bounces? Not Tetris. Yeah yeah..something like that. Anyway the name is Atari games, they have many games collection, hundreds of it. And then there’s AI Agent that can play better than people, meaning it can achieve higher score and harder to die. There’s also for example playing Donkey Kong, first you have to go here, and then there, that kind of game. But can we call it AI? Yeah maybe that’s AI. Another example is Go, AlphaGo off course. The most famous Deepmind now, able to finish Go. We call those narrow or weak AI, because it’s only for status plus fix problem. Us for example, we can solve many problems at once, we can do whatever we like. The one we have right now, the one that can reach super human level is usually the specific one like this, and it’s using the Monte-Carlo Tree Search techniques, that kind of sort. So actually there is only fine line between Search and AI. But what we really want is to complete speech understanding in the long run. If for instance there is a person talking, can we transcribe it directly and understand what he means? This is what I meant by progress in this field is quite far, if only we have the data, I think we can manage. But ultimately, our goal is clear, Artificial General Intelligence. What we want is to be able to solve everything only with an Agent. Similar to us, but hopefully smarter than us, because we kind of lack of, well..I kind of lack of. Next question: Do we really need AI? There are several reasons why we want this AI. In my opinion, in the long run if we already have AGI, around 20-30 years from now. I can’t predict when will AGI happen, if only we’re so lucky. If we do have AGI Agent, the impact will be as massive as the Industrial Revolution. A lot of people believe in this. Why is that? In the past we have to do everything manually. Making cotton, sewing threads, and then come along machines. From just one person doing one thing, now we can do many, we went straight to mass production of clothes, pants, and so on. That’s what AI impact is going to be. Several things if done by human will take a long time, but AI never get tired, it always stand by. We can benefit on the scale as big as this, that's one of the main reasons I think. Another reason, this one is my personal motivation, is that an AI Agent can help us thinking forward beyond our thinking ability. For example, everything that we can’t think of, if there is an AI Agent that can understand everything, it can help us explores the mystery of the universe. And I think it’s not something impossible in the future. But in the short-term first, let say for these products, what is AI useful for? The most important is to help our users. BukaLapak users for instance, if they want to complaint, or ask about something, or to recommend products that maybe relevant for them, or helping them to set up a store if someone doesn’t know how to, something like that. We can discuss this further later. Now on to the next question: Why do we need AI research? We can just take it like this right? Import scikit.learn, then what? So simple, what’s the use for AI? Everyone can do it. But in reality, in practice, it’s not that easy to produce a very useful model. Oh, there are so many models, we can just import it one by one. But to be a successful product is not as simple as importing, and then training it, and voila it works! Usually we have to modify some parts, then can we understand the reason if it fails? So we can replace it with a more relevant model or getting more data collection. And other questions: If it works, why? Is it applicable to other products because it succeeded in this product? Can we understand the correlation? That’s one of the main reasons; other reason is if we have a dedicated research division, we can develop our own products. For example; Amazon created Echo, it initially from their research division, or Kinect, Microsoft Kinect. So it can open other business opportunities of a company, if we actually have AI technology, it can turn out good. Especially in Indonesia, there are so many opportunities whereas now there is nothing based AI yet. If for example we want to do a research, what do we need? First, we need a team, this is not a one man job to build something that we can really benefit from. We need a team that collaborate, a team with researcher, engineer, product manager, all working together to achieve this goal. This will be a difficult task if done alone, you might be able to experiments or research, but to produce something concrete, you need a bigger team, in my opinion. One more thing that’s important, you need computational resources, as much as you can get. The more of it, the more we can obtain. This is also one of the most important, computational resources for AI, because the methods are now really computationally expensive. So for instance if we use GPU, if we can get access to those kind of resources, the progress will be much faster, it’s not linear experience anymore basically. Let’s just sharing a bit, why some AI group research is more successful than the others? For example: now we have Google Break, Facebook AI Research, Deepmind. Why are there bigger groups that seems to progress faster compare to other groups? What are the keys to build a successful AI group? In my opinion, the first one, off course that you have to recruit the most potential people. It’s just that, let say everyone are able do it, what else can we do? The first one is clear division of tasks. So the working environment must support each other, for example you’ve got researcher, what does he do? An engineer, what does he do? They can multitask, but if it’s me personally, I wouldn’t do it, if you hire a researcher, then he should only research. If you need an engineer, then hire one, don’t make them multitask, they’re not specialized in that field, it wouldn’t turn out good and the progress will be slower. And you have to set your common goal from the beginning, what is the main objective of this division? For example AGI as the brain, Artificial General Intelligence, and all of the little projects was made to be AGI’s supported component in the future. The last thing that I want to shares is, what AI technologies that we already pretty advance at? We might have a chance to implement it now, in my opinion. We can do these kinds of technologies if we have large amount of data, and I mean large. And we have to do supervised learning, use these data to learn, what should I do? What should I do? We do have the models. There are a lot of potentials in it, we already have the technology to produce a fairly accurate prediction. A couple of specific fields had already great progress, maybe we can implement it here if we have many products images or something. Our Computer Vision is pretty decent, it can identify what kind of product is this, that sort of thing. This kind is pretty close to the level of human’s accuracy, or maybe in some ways even already exceeded. For example, what is this product? What’s in the image? Something like that, the bottom line is Computer Vision has a pretty good progress compare to other fields of AI. One other thing that also has pretty good progress, Speech Recognition, eventhough our Siri is bad, especially me because I use British-Sundanese accent. Somewhat inconsequential but in general if we really collect the data and the target extracting domain is pretty decent, I think we can make a product here. The ones we cannot do yet, we still need a lot of research, there are many areas, these just to sum up. Language, according to many people, language is one of the main manifestations of human intelligence. If we can solve problems such as understanding a conversation, then we are considered to have intelligence. Although there are applications that we can apply here, it’s just that it’s not as good as for example computer vision, image recognition, that kind of sort. What if we don’t have that many data? We are still lacking on that area. The last thing that I found considerably important in my personal opinion is, we've been able to make predictions, this is what you have to do, or this is a horse, or something. It’s just that we cannot inspect why it said this is a horse? Or try to explain why do this identified as a horse? So it isn’t able to give explanation yet, this is also one of the areas of research that we still need to work together. That’s all from me. 