 I'm Jakob Nielsen at the UX Conference in Atlanta and I'm with Yunnuo Cheng who was one of our interns this year. I want to ask you, Yuno, just tell us a little bit about the projects you did this summer. (YUNNUO) So for this summer I had one main project that is the web-wide usability testing: researching all the top UX issues that are still existing for the websites we are using today. And it's really exciting for me because it is the third time that we do this study since like 1990s. So it's a big thing. And I also conducted two local studies back in China: one on WeChat which is a popular topic that people are talking (about) recently and I did dairy studies and usability testing with our local Chinese users. And I also did like a comparison between Chinese users and foreign users on how they are dealing with websites of different complexity. And in-between this hands-on practice I got the chance to learn a lot from sitting in our UX Conferences as well. (JAKOB) What do you think was the main difference between what you learned during these user experience projects compared to what you're learning at university? (YUNNUO) I think the huge difference is like you can talk to real users in the real settings. So in school we sometimes are kind of like idealist but in the real settings you have to think about all those real-world constraints and how you are going to plan those research and conduct them. So for me, for example, like simply by exchanging ideas like task plans or anything, and by practicing the opening dialogue for my research is going to help me to improve a lot. So it's really helpful in a different flavor (JAKOB) So how important do you think it is for HCI (human-computer interaction) graduate students to do an internship in industry? (YUNNUO) It's definitely helpful for  you to practice something you learn in school, and on the other hand learn-by-doing and learn from the experts who already got rich experience in industry definitely helps a lot. So for me and I think another important issue is like, for the HCI students one of the most essential lessons that we need to learn is how to communicate with real users in the real settings and how to bring those research insights and design ideas to the real product. So this process could be surprisingly challenging, but always good when you can start as an intern and be allowed to make mistakes. (JAKOB) Exactly. Yunnuo, it was really great having you in the company this summer and good luck in your future studies. (YUNNUO) Thank you! 