 [MUSIC PLAYING] Hi, I'm Kristen Gil. I'm a Googler. And in a couple of minutes I'm going to bring our amazing speakers back on stage so that we can have an open Q and A, so start thinking about your questions now. Before I do that though, I wanted to introduce myself and share one observation I have from my work here at Google around innovation and process. So here at Google I run an internal consulting team if you will, not unlike what James does at McKinsey, but I do that here within Google. And that gives me the opportunity to work with our leaders across the company on their product strategy issues, their business strategy issues, monetization growth, et cetera. But I also get to work on how Google operates, and some of the processes that we have here at Google to help us run fast and help us to run well. And I've had an observation about process in that I think it can both be a real way to unlock innovation, and it can also be a real way to suck the life blood out of innovation. So I'll call it process and innovation as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Let me give you a couple of very fast examples. The first is actually what Astra was talking about earlier, and this is the Dr. Jekyll, the good stuff. Astra was very deliberate about what he does. He talked about the culture engineering. He talked about building in this ability to fail. And there are details behind what he does. He actually has processes around this, ways to enable rapid evaluation, ways in which they have those conversations about whether projects should continue. And I think that's a great example of intentional process to drive innovation. And let me give you another example that might sound funny. Laszlo talked about the food here. We want to make sure you're well fed. We're known for food at Google, and we have cafeterias all over the place. We have these things called micro kitchens, which are basically snack areas that we have every couple of hundred feet with an our offices. And what you'll notice about these areas is there's also a lot of collaboration space. And this I think is a structural element that is intentionally trying to create white space for that cross pollination of ideas. It enables people to get together out of their formal meetings, out of their desk, and run into each other, talk in a more open way. And I think it really reinforces Scott's point about the diversity of ideas. Not everybody knows everything anymore. We just can't. But if we can share different things that we're working on and actually create environments where that can happen somewhat serendipitously, we see that cross pollination. And I see this all the time. When I bump into somebody at a cafe, they're telling me about what they're working on. I realize they're working on something that's related to somebody else that I was just talking to two weeks ago and I can connect them, or their ideas can affect what I'm doing. Actually, thanks to this event, I feel like I had one of those cross-pollination moments just this morning at the breakfast. So this is a structural example of having process and structure try to unlock innovation. But now let me talk about where process can actually go very, very wrong. Google from its very beginning-- we grew very fast. So we were intentional about building infrastructure and processes that would help us run faster, hiring processes, performance management. How we get our data centers up and running so that then our engineers can get access to compute capacity. Long before there was really this notion of a powerful cloud, we were providing that to our engineers so that they could grow really fast. Now the problem is when process gets so strong it becomes brittle. And the brittle nature of that process can actually defeat the original purpose. I liken this to the innovator's dilemma, but from a process standpoint. So the innovator's dilemma, which I'm sure you're all familiar with, is this notion that what your company does, what it's so good at, its product, it's business is so valuable that you protect it. That you ignore new signals, you ignore new ideas to protect that very business rather than disrupting it. But you need to do that creative destruction. You need to disrupt it so that you can remain relevant. And process can do this same thing, and let me give you an example. So here's back in the early days. This is a real picture from our hiring process and how it was being mapped out by one of our early leaders. I think it was Todd Carlisle that did this. This turned into an incredible strength for Google. Our ability to hire talented people for the roles that we had, this was an incredible strength. But over time, we knew we needed to hire engineers. We were building a search engine, so we needed a kind of engineer that was really algorithm heavy, really back-end systems heavy. Over time, however, we got into other businesses. We have Gmail, we have YouTube, we have a photos app. These types of products require not just back-end engineers but other kinds of engineers, what we call front-end engineers, and designers designer. They understand user interaction. We were bringing people in, though, to hire the engineers, and we were giving them questions in our processes around back-end engineering. We were chewing up and spitting out great talent because we hadn't adjusted our processes for what we really needed now. So this is just an example. This is the Mr. Hyde example of when processes actually get too strong. If you don't keep them adaptable, if you don't keep them flexible they can actually defeat the original purpose, which in our case was hiring great talent for the roles we had open. So I encourage you to think about the processes in your organizations, and where are they being a bit of a Dr. Jekyll and when are they being too much of Mr. Hyde. [MUSIC PLAYING] 