 Guy Raz (Host) - Let's talk about, we have lots to discuss about cognitive buildings and IOT. I want to pivot to the idea of energy because we're in this building and this is a very energy efficient building and it prides itself on that and we think of it as a future model. But these data centers will require a great deal of energy to operate so as we begin to see buildings developed as cognitive buildings constructed as cognitive buildings or buildings being retrofitted to accommodate these technologies are we going to see a surge in energy use to accommodate that? Claire Penny (IBM) - So I think it's a balance, ok, so you are probably going to see more storage of data more demand for data centers, but on the data center side people who build and manage data centers are acutely aware of that problem. And they're looking at renewable energy sources to fuel those data centers, to run those data centers. And also by consolidating into one space you're going to get some energy efficiencies just by virtue of that consolidation. So the data center people, IBM included, are really focused in on looking in on that so the efficiencies you can gain there are quite good. Guy Raz (Host) - When you say efficiencies because of the sensor data the building can make adjustments essentially Claire Penny (IBM) - Exactly, because you're concentrating into a data center all those servers if you like Graca Carvalho (UCL) - I have a different view on that one, I come from the other end, from the networking and systems side. We have a problem having everything centralized, so yes I understand the benefits and I have created a lot of cloud architectures, but I don't believe that we're going to realize this IOT vision in totally centralized environment. but we're going to have a lot of what we call far computing and intelligence at the edge and calculation and integration of data at the edge and security at the edge without this thing that does not have to be a major single because we have all these clouds and data centers but it's a major single point of failure. There are things that will have to happen at the edge around the building, at the meeting room level because they are specific to that context and don't need to be actually brought to the cloud in a centralized environment. So that's going to be an impact in terms of energy efficiency of how the systems are designed. And i think we're going to see more distribution than actually initially thought. Claire Penny (IBM) - That's one side of it right? If you look at the good that cognitive buildings are delivering in terms of energy efficiency of the building of which we all know the statistics ____ around left right and center about how much energy a building actually wasted to be able to identify that, to really tighten those whole systems, those building management systems is really really key. Guy Raz (Host) - Is it also fair to say that we really don't know the potential, right? I mean we once we have all this data that can be processed and aggregated the potential is limitless. 