 If you look at services that we deploy on top of DC/OS they'll be touched by literally tens of millions of subscribers at at some point in time. As you look at Verizon's wireless footprint and the number of customers Verizon can reach, there is a large number of consumers that are going to be interacting with their wireless devices, interacting with their video services, interacting with all their IoT devices, and at the back it's likely to find a little application, a little service, you know, running on this thing called DC/OS. And I think that that's pretty, pretty incredible for us to come to work to be able to build a platform that supports rapid development of applications that, you know, touch millions of people, I think is a pretty exciting place to be. When we initially approached Mesosphere, my team was working on services to address the coming IoT market, and that whole goal of what Mesosphere was trying to do was well in line with how we want to approach getting applications, managing them, and distributing within our data centers — and that led us to Mesosphere. You touched on infrastructure and ease of application management, ease of development. These are all things that we think are intertwined, and so I think when we look at this Datacenter Operating System, it it actually helps the developers. It helps the management of the infrastructure, and it certainly helps the sort of the ongoing operations and continuous deployment of all this so that we can actually create a service that's obviously highly available and and available to all of our customers all the time. The ability to put a new application out onto a production system is drastically reduced in in many aspects from, you know, the time it takes to to plan that deployment. I don't have to go figure out physical resources. I take advantage of what's there in the data center the ability to test, the ability to to make fixes and changes is all increased. With adopting DC/OS and the whole Mesos framework, when we look at our applications and we look at the IoT space, for example, and we look at the data coming in, I think it allows us to more rapidly adopt the types of technologies that can better process that data. And I don't have this separation that you traditionally have of where do my applications live and then where do I process my big data tasks. What I have now is I have one single contiguous cluster, and I can bring my data, and store it, and then I can run all my applications as well as my traditional analytic jobs on the same cluster where I don't need to move the data around anymore and I think that's a huge advantage to our platform and Mesos as well as the advantage of adopting some of the technologies to process the large amount of data. Mesosphere is a a good company to work with. The people are smart, the people are, you know, really passionate about what they're doing, and and they're here to help us solve problems, and they understand the technology. So these are all good attributes of a partner. 