 (Boing, boing) Hi. My name is Ethan. Hi. My name is Justin and today we're going to show you these three Sphero products. Today, we have Sphero SPRK, Sphero 2.0, and Sphero BB-8 from Star Wars. If you've never heard of Sphero before it's basically a programable ball that you can control from your smart phone or tablet. You can drive it directly from the drive app or you can program it and tell it what to do. To use them you have to wake the Spheros up. To do that you can tap your finger twice on them (tap tap) (tap tap) like that or on their charger there's a button that you can use to wake them up. Once you have the Bluetooth on your device you can pair it with your Sphero and then you can drive it. Each Sphero has a different identification. It can tell you using letters on your smart device and colours on your Sphero. Let's see which name this Sphero is (tap tap). White purple green so that means it's WPG. These are amazingly durable. If you drop it by accident they should be fine. Your pet can play with them. They can go in sand and they have no wires. They're even waterproof. In fact, we've put ours in the pool and driven it around. The first one we are going to show you is Sphero 2.0. It has a white casing and it's compatable with all the Sphero apps. We like to put these type of Spheros in a nubby. It gives it protection and good traction and it doesn't harm the Bluetooth connection either. We've taken these all over the place. Sphero SPRK was made to help kids learn about programming. The initials SPRK stand for schools, parents, robots and kids. This Sphero has a clear casing so you can see how the light, the gyroscopes and the motors work. You can see how it maintains stability as it rolls. Lightening Lab is an app made especially for Sphero SPRK but you can also use it with any other Spheros. There are step by step video lessons for you to watch and then you get to try the exercise out for yourself and code your own Sphero. There's a community tab which lets you share the programs you make with the community. We really like Lightening Lab and we've completed a number of lessons and done a lot of programming. Once you are ready to move on you can move on to Orb Basic or Macro Lab. There's actually a SPRK+ now too. The big difference about it is the Bluetooth connection. The Bluetooth connection on SPRK+ is it connects faster but we haven't had any problems with this Sphero SPRK or any of the other ones. BB-8 does everything all the other Spheros do plus it's got it's own Star Wars BB-8 app. This app lets you control your robot with voice commands. It can patrol the room and it also can send holographic messages. It also has this cute little head thing on top of it but it works fine without the head as well. Sphero also sells a Force Band that goes with BB-8 and its app. If you're a Star Wars fan like us you'll like this BB-8. It's really cool. There are tons of Sphero apps that you can use just for fun. Our favourites are Sphero Exile and Sphero Colour Grab. These Spheros have been a really good part of our home schooling. We can do most of the exercises and programming in Lightening Lab ourself. Timberdoodle is a home school company that sells SPRK and SPRK+. Timberdoodle has a lot of hands on learning activities. I like hands on learning activities. If you want to find out more go to timberdoodle.com. We'll put a link in the description below. Remember to subscribe to our QuadSquad Channel. We put new videos out every week. If this video was helpful to you put a thumbs up and share it with your friends. Let us know if there's other products that you want us to do. Thanks for watching our video. Bye! 