 The volume of e-commerce orders is growing rapidly. Rising traffic levels, pollution and increasing customer demands however are making the delivery process increasingly difficult. Customers expect their goods to arrive ever faster and within increasingly specific time windows. The current traditional delivery model is only partly suitable for the changing environmental conditions. In order to meet customers’ demands the solution is a greater number of small decentralized hubs close to customers. To meet these logistical challenges particularly in the last part of the delivery process we have to find new ways and apply innovative thinking. And at Mercedes-Benz Vans we are doing exactly that with the Vans and Robots project. A mobile, flexible and freely scalable Hub. The Mercedes-Benz Vans and Robots Mothership concept. Let’s assume you urgently need a new laptop and you know that you’ll be home in an hour. You can simply order the device on the internet and enter the preferred delivery time. The order arrives at the supplier. The package is picked from the store, transported to the Hub and loaded onto the Sprinter. The Sprinter drives off and is navigated to a broadly marked out delivery area. For delivery to be carried out as efficiently as possible the best possible stop for the van is calculated as soon as it gets there based on the location and status of all the robots within the area. On board the Sprinter are fifty-four load-carriers filled with the orders for this particular area. Among the load-carriers are eight autonomous robots. Each of these can be loaded with a maximum of ten kilos. Meaning they’re able to accommodate a significantly higher payload than other autonomous systems. The driver App shows the driver the current positions and status of the robots at any given time. Inside the load compartment the driver app enables the driver to fill the robot easily, accurately and efficiently. The driver is also aided in the packing process by a pick by light system. This loading process guarantees fast straightforward preparation. The loaded robots can thus be send on their way as a free-floating robot fleet to deliver their cargo safely and reliably within a radius of up to two miles. The combination of autonomous delivery robots and our mothership enables accurate time to delivery plus maximum and flexible scalability paired with minimal infrastructure costs. When a robot returns from a delivery it enters the mothership on its own. All the driver has to do is secure it. In future this innovative cooperation between Mercedes-Benz Vans and Starship will ensure quick convenient and cost-effective delivery at the desired time to the desired location with the customer kept fully informed by the customer app. This guarantees the best possible delivery race as well as satisfied customers. Fast and flexible with minimal emissions. Vans and Robots powered by Mercedes-Benz and Starship. 