BUSINESSOverviewSalesforce is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions, with a focus on customer relationship management, or CRM. We introduced our first CRM solution in February 2000, and we have since expanded that offering with new editions, solutions, enhanced features, platform capabilities and a new analytics solution through internal development and acquisitions.Our mission is to help our customers transform themselves into “customer companies” by empowering them to connect with their customers in entirely new ways. With our six core cloud service offerings, including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, community management, analytics and a cloud platform for building custom applications, we provide a next generation customer success platform.Our service offerings are intuitive and easy-to-use, can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications, or apps. We deliver our solutions as a service via all the major Internet browsers and on leading mobile devices.We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis, primarily through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality and new apps that run on our platform, which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our service.We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California and our principal website address is www.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105.3Table of ContentsThe Cloud, Social, Mobile and Data Science RevolutionsWe believe that the convergence of cloud, social, mobile and data science technologies is fundamentally transforming how companies sell, service, market, engage and innovate.Cloud computing has changed the way enterprise business apps are developed and deployed. Organizations no longer need to buy and maintain their own infrastructure of servers, storage and development tools in order to create and run business apps. Instead, companies can gain access to a variety of business apps via an Internet browser or mobile device on an as-needed basis, without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software in-house.The broad shift to social networking has transformed the way people engage and collaborate and is accelerating the adoption of technologies that connect people and products through “feeds” and notifications. In addition, the proliferation of mobile phones worldwide continues, and enterprise mobile apps are making it possible for people to conduct business from their phones. As more people and devices become connected, companies are looking for new ways to harness the multitude of data from these connections for new insights to drive business success. Progress in data science and machine learning will move companies beyond just automating business processes to more data-driven, predictive computing.We believe Salesforce is at the forefront of delivering more than a system of record and a system of engagement, but also a system of intelligence for companies of every size and industry to connect with their customers in entirely new ways. Our Six Cloud Service OfferingsWe provide enterprise cloud computing solutions that include apps and platform services, as well as professional services to facilitate the adoption of our solutions. We offer six core service offerings, all integrated on a single platform, that empower companies to grow sales faster, deliver customer service on multiple devices, market through one-to-one customer journeys, build branded communities for customers, partners and employees, deliver analytics for every business user and develop mobile apps quickly and easily.Our core service offerings are as follows:Sales Cloud. The Sales Cloud is a platform for sales force automation that enables companies to store data, access accurate customer and prospect information, track leads and progress, forecast opportunities and collaborate around any sale on desktop and mobile devices. Our customers use the Sales Cloud to grow their sales pipelines, close more deals, improve sales productivity and gain valuable business insights. The Sales Cloud also offers solutions for partner relationship management (including channel management and partner communities) and complete, accurate customer and contact information.Service Cloud. The Service Cloud is a platform for customer service, enabling companies to effectively address their customer service and support needs. Our customers use the Service Cloud to connect their customer service agents with customers on a multitude of devices and across multiple channels—phone, email, chat, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and apps.Marketing Cloud. The Marketing Cloud is a platform for digital marketing that enables companies to plan, personalize and optimize one-to-one customer interactions. Our customers use the Marketing Cloud to map customer journeys to digital marketing interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products. With the Marketing Cloud, customer data can also be routed into the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers.Community Cloud. The Community Cloud, which we announced as a core service offering in October 2014, is a platform for creating trusted, branded destinations for customers, partners and employees to collaborate. It enables companies to engage directly with a specific group of people by giving them access to relevant information, apps and experts.Analytics Cloud. The Analytics Cloud, which we announced as a core service offering in October 2014, is an app and platform for business intelligence. It enables companies to quickly deploy sales, service, marketing and custom analytics apps using any data source. Our customers use the Analytics Cloud to enable any employee to quickly and easily explore business data, uncover new insights, make smarter decisions and take action from anywhere on their mobile device.Salesforce1 Platform. The Salesforce1 Platform is a cloud platform for developing apps. The Salesforce1 Platform is delivered as a service, enabling anyone to build business apps without the burden of managing hardware and software. Our customers, developers and independent software vendors (“ISVs”) use the Salesforce1 Platform to build apps that manage a variety of business processes and can be accessed anytime and on any mobile device. In addition, the Salesforce1 Platform gives customers the ability to create multiple copies of their company's Salesforce instance in separate environments for a variety of purposes, such as testing and training.4Table of ContentsProfessional ServicesWe offer consulting, deployment, training, implementation and integration services to our customers to facilitate the adoption of our cloud solutions. Our professional service engagements can be billed on a time and materials basis, for a fixed fee or through annual contracts. We offer a number of traditional classroom and online educational classes that address topics such as deploying, using, administering and developing on our service. We offer classes for our partners who deploy our service on behalf of our customers. We bill the traditional classroom and some of the online educational classes on a per person, per class basis. In addition, there is a selection of online educational classes available at no charge to customers that subscribe to our customer service plans.Business Benefits of Using Our SolutionThe key advantages of our solution include:Secure, private, scalable and reliable. Our service has been designed to provide our customers with privacy and high levels of performance, reliability and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the Internet, which we monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to scale securely, reliably and cost effectively. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously.Rapid deployment. Our service can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the servers, storage, networking equipment, security products or other hardware and software.Ease of integration and configuration. IT professionals are able to integrate and configure our solutions with existing applications quickly and seamlessly. We provide a set of application programming interfaces (“APIs”) that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our solution with existing third-party, custom and legacy apps and write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. For example, many of our customers use our Salesforce1 Platform API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and packaged applications into our service on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their activities.High levels of user adoption. We have designed our solutions to be intuitive and easy to use. Our solutions contain many tools and features recognizable to users of popular consumer web services, so users are more familiar with our user interface than typical enterprise applications. As a result, our users can often use and gain benefit from our solutions with minimal training. We have also designed our solutions to be used on mobile devices, making it possible for people to conduct business from their phones. Rapid development of apps using the Salesforce1 Platform. Our customers and third-party developers can create apps rapidly because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily customize our applications to suit their specific needs, and also support a variety of programming language support so developers can code complex apps spanning multiple business processes and deliver them via multiple mobile devices.Increased innovation. By providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new and innovative apps without having to invest in hardware and distribution. Developers with ideas for a new app can create, test and support their solutions on the Salesforce1 Platform and make the app accessible for a subscription fee to customers.Lower total cost of ownership. We enable customers to achieve significant up-front savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model. Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they generally pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract. Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the upgrade release date and therefore benefit all of our customers immediately.Our StrategyOur objective is to deliver solutions that help companies transform the way they sell, service, market, engage and innovate. Not only do we provide enterprise cloud apps, we also provide an enterprise cloud computing platform upon which our customers and partners can build and customize apps.5Table of ContentsKey elements of our strategy include:Strengthening our solutions. We offer multiple editions of our solutions at different price points to meet the needs of customers of different sizes and we have designed our solutions to easily accommodate new features and functionality. We intend to continue to extend all editions of our core solutions with new features and functions and increased security through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. Expanding into new and high-growth categories. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new and high-growth categories, including marketing, communities, business intelligence and cloud platforms. Extending strategic relationships with existing customers. We see a significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our service, we aim to upgrade the customer to premium editions, extend the duration of the customers' contracts and sell more subscriptions by targeting additional functional areas and business units within the customer organization, and ultimately pursue enterprise-wide deployments.Pursuing new customers. We believe that our offerings provide significant value for businesses of any size. As a result, we will continue to aggressively target businesses of all sizes in top industries and major regions, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our service.Reducing attrition. Our goal is to have all of our customers renew their subscriptions at the end of their contractual terms. We run customer success and other related programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.Building our business in top software markets globally. We believe that there is a substantial market opportunity for our solutions globally. We plan to continue to aggressively market and sell to customers worldwide via local sales and support professionals with deep expertise in target industries and through partnerships with ISVs and system integrators. Additionally, we plan to increase data center capacity by opening additional data centers in our top global markets.Encouraging the development of third-party apps on our cloud computing platforms. The Salesforce1 Platform enables existing customers, ISVs and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud apps. It is a platform on which apps can be created, tested, published and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange, our online marketplace for business apps, or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of developers and software vendors will address the business requirements of both current and potential customers.Technology, Development and OperationsWe deliver our Salesforce solutions as highly scalable, cloud-computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate tenants who run in virtual isolation from each other. Customers can use and customize an application as though they each have a separate instance, yet their data and customizations remain secure and insulated from the activities of all other tenants. Our multi-tenant services run on a single stack of hardware and software, which is comprised of commercially available hardware and a combination of proprietary and commercially available software. As a result, we are able to spread the cost of delivering our services across our user base. In addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe that we can scale our business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of their distinct applications. Multi-tenancy also allows for faster bug and security fixes, automatic software updates and the ability to deploy major releases and frequent, incremental improvements to our services, benefiting the entire user community.Our services are optimized to run on specific databases and operating systems using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers rather than on-premise software that must be written to the different hardware, operating systems and database platforms existing within a customer’s unique systems environment. Our developers build and support solutions and features on a single code base on our chosen technology platform. Our research and development efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new features, functionality and services. From time to time, we supplement our internal research and development activities with outside development resources and acquired technology. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies or technologies, and we incorporate the acquired technologies into our solutions. Performance, functional depth and the usability of our solutions influence our technology decisions and product direction.Our customers access our services from any geography over the Internet via all of the major Internet browsers and on most major mobile device operating systems.6Table of ContentsWe provide the majority of our services to our customers from infrastructure operated by us but secured within third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries. These third-party data center providers provide space, physical security, continuous power and cooling. The remainder of our services operate from cloud computing platform providers who offer Infrastructure as a Service, including servers, storage, databases and networking.Sources of RevenueWe derive our revenues primarily from subscription fees for our service. We also derive revenues from premier support, which provides customers with additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee. We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement date of each contract. The majority of our professional services contracts are on a time and materials basis, for which we generally recognize revenue as the services are rendered.Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We generally invoice customers in annual installments. Deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding effects of customer renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity within the quarter.CustomersWe sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2015, 2014 or 2013.TransactionsOur transaction volume, representing transactions processed through our solutions and platform, excluding Marketing Cloud and one of our platform service offerings, Heroku, was 585 billion for fiscal 2015, an increase of 59 percent as compared to fiscal 2014.  A transaction is a retrieval or update within the Salesforce database, which can be a page load, an information query, or an API call, among others. Our transaction metrics are used to illustrate the growing usage of our service by our customers and to highlight the scalability of our service. We do not believe transaction metrics are key performance indicators of our financial condition. Specifically, there is no direct correlation between the transaction activity and our financial results, such as revenue or expense growth. Additionally, transaction activity cannot be relied upon as an indicator of future financial performance.Sales, Marketing and Customer SupportWe organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, including the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, which includes Japan. The majority of our revenue from the Americas is attributable to customers in the United States. Approximately 28 percent of our revenue comes from customers outside of the Americas.Direct SalesWe sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads. Referral and Indirect SalesWe have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects.This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and regional partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. Also included in this network are ISVs, whom we typically pay a percentage of the subscription revenue generated by their referrals.We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service.7Table of ContentsMarketingOur marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners, and developers.Our primary marketing activities include:•Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, offerings and value proposition;•User conferences and events, such as Dreamforce, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer and prospect awareness;•Content marketing and engagement on social channels like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube;•Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties;•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, free trials, case studies, white papers, and marketing collateral;•Multi-channel marketing campaigns;•Customer testimonials; and•Sales tools and field marketing events to enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers.Customer Service and SupportOur global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support for an additional fee, which can include services such as priority access to technical resources, developer support, and system administration. In addition, we offer a mission critical support add-on that is designed to provide customers with responses for incidents from a dedicated team knowledgeable about the customer's specific enterprise architecture, and which offers instruction to optimize their usage of our products.SeasonalityOur fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and our first quarter is historically our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.CompetitionThe market for our offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology and frequent introductions of new products and services. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud computing application service. Additionally, third-party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in other competing technology platforms.We compete primarily with vendors of packaged business software and companies offering CRM apps. We also compete with internally developed apps. We may encounter competition from enterprise software vendors who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current principal competitors include:•On premise offerings from enterprise software application vendors;•Cloud computing application service providers;•Software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;•Social media companies;•Traditional platform development environment companies,•Cloud computing development platform companies; and•Internally developed applications (by our potential customers’ information technology (“IT”) departments).We believe that as traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they may become a greater competitive threat.8Table of ContentsIntellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brands and maintain programs to protect and grow our rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our service offerings. EmployeesAs of January 31, 2015, we had more than 16,000 employees. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union, however, for certain foreign subsidiaries, workers’ councils represent our employees.Available InformationYou can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at http://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/ as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.