BUSINESSOverviewSalesforce is a global leader in customer relationship management, or CRM, software. We deliver our cloud-based software through the internet as a service. We introduced our first CRM solution in 2000, and have since expanded our service offerings into new areas and industries, as well as introduced new features and platform capabilities. Our core mission is to empower our customers to connect with their customers in entirely new ways through cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things (“IoT”) and artificial intelligence (“AI”) technologies.Our service offerings are designed to be intuitive and easy to use. They can be deployed rapidly via mobile devices and major internet browsers, configured easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications. We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis, primarily through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also enable third parties to develop additional functionality and new applications, or apps, that run on our platform, which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our service offerings.We deliver a comprehensive portfolio of service offerings including sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, digital commerce, community management, collaboration, industry-specific solutions and the Salesforce Platform, also referred to as the Customer Success Platform, which includes Trailhead, Einstein AI, Lightning, IoT, Heroku, Analytics and the AppExchange.3Table of ContentsSalesforce operates with a set of core values: trust, growth, innovation and equality. At Salesforce, we believe nothing is more important than the trust of our customers. Customers trust our technology to deliver the highest levels of security, reliability and availability at scale. Our continuous innovation and the democratization of both technology and innovation drives customer success, which in turn drives mutual growth.Salesforce also believes in giving back. We pioneered, and have inspired other companies to adopt, an integrated philanthropy model called the 1-1-1 model, which leverages 1% of a company's equity, employee time and product to help improve communities around the world. In addition, we have spearheaded initiatives to create a world where equal pay, equal advancement, equal opportunity and equal rights become a reality for our employees and the broader world. We also strive to play a meaningful role in creating a sustainable, low-carbon future by delivering a carbon neutral cloud, operating as a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions company and by working to achieve our goal of 100 percent renewable energy for our global operations.We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999, and our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California. Our principal website address is www.salesforce.com and our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105.Our Cloud Service OfferingsOur cloud service offerings are as follows:Sales Cloud. The Sales Cloud empowers sales teams to sell faster, smarter and the way they want. No matter the industry, role or company size, Sales Cloud enables companies to store data, monitor leads and progress, forecast opportunities, gain insights through analytics and relationship intelligence, and deliver quotes, contracts and invoices.Service Cloud. The Service Cloud enables companies to deliver smarter, faster and more personalized customer service and support. Our customers use the Service Cloud to connect their service agents with customers anytime and anywhere, on popular devices and across multiple channels: phone, email, messaging, chat, live video, SMS, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and mobile apps. In addition, Service Cloud also offers a field service solution that enables companies to connect agents, dispatchers and mobile employees through one centralized platform, on which they can schedule and dispatch work intelligently, and track and manage jobs in real-time.Marketing Cloud. The Marketing Cloud enables companies to plan, personalize and optimize one-to-one customer marketing journeys, including interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products. In addition, companies can segment and target audiences to power precise digital marketing at scale. With the Marketing Cloud, customer data can also be integrated with the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers.Commerce Cloud. The Commerce Cloud empowers brands to unify the customer experience across all points of commerce, including mobile, web, social and store. With embedded AI that delivers a personalized shopping experience, and a robust partner ecosystem, Commerce Cloud helps companies drive increased engagement, conversion, revenue and loyalty from their customers.Community Cloud. The Community Cloud enables companies to quickly create and manage trusted, branded digital destinations for customers, partners and employees. This allows companies to engage and collaborate directly with groups of people by giving them access to relevant information, apps and experts.Quip. The Quip collaboration platform combines documents, spreadsheets, apps, and chat with live CRM data to deliver a central hub for teams to create, collaborate and get work done. Built mobile-first, Quip breaks down communication barriers and silos to enable every business to collaborate online, offline and from any device.Industry Offerings. To meet the needs of our customers in certain industries, we also provide solutions for Financial Services, Healthcare and Government. Financial Services Cloud enables retail banking and wealth management institutions to bring together disparate lines of business, geographies and channels to put customers at the center of every interaction. For example, Health Cloud is a patient and member relationship platform that harnesses our cloud, social and mobile technologies to deliver more personalized engagement by providing a complete view of the patient, intelligent care collaboration and a connected patient engagement experience. Government Cloud provides departments and agencies with a group of connected cloud services and solutions enabling any agency to build modern, connected app experiences that empower them to work faster, smarter and the way they want.Salesforce Platform. The Salesforce Platform includes tools customers can leverage to build intelligent and connected enterprise apps. Thousands of partner-built apps and millions of custom apps built by customers have been developed on the Salesforce Platform. The Salesforce Platform also offers a full continuum of AI, no-code, low-code and code development and integration services, including Trailhead, Einstein AI, Lightning, IoT, Heroku, Analytics and the AppExchange.4Table of Contents•Trailhead is our free, gamified, interactive online learning platform, where anyone can become a Trailblazer by learning in-demand skills, including administering our services and developing on the Salesforce Platform.•Einstein AI is a set of advanced AI capabilities embedded across the entire Salesforce Platform that automatically discovers relevant insights, predicts future behavior, proactively recommends best next actions and automates tasks. •Salesforce Lightning is a component-based experience, platform and ecosystem that allows customers to create apps fast with clicks, not code. •IoT is a platform service that allows businesses to use IoT data at scale with tools to create rules-based automation to deliver proactive sales, service and marketing.•Heroku is an app development Platform-as-a-Service for building mobile and web customer apps. •Analytics delivers complete, intelligent analytics so customers can explore their business data, uncover new insights, make smarter decisions and take action from any device.•AppExchange is an enterprise cloud marketplace that allows customers to extend the Salesforce Platform to every department and every industry with more than 5,000 solutions, 5,000,000 customer installs and 70,000 peer reviews.Success Cloud. We offer professional services to help customers achieve business results faster with Salesforce solutions. Our architects and innovation program teams act as advisors to plan and execute digital transformations for our customers. We provide best-practices based support and adoption programs globally. In addition, we provide more advanced education, including instructor-led and online courses to certify our customers and partners on architecting, administering, deploying and developing our service offerings.Business Benefits of Using Our SolutionThe key advantages of our solution include, but are not limited to the following:Secure, private, scalable and reliable. Our services have been designed to provide our customers with high levels of performance, reliability and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems and encryption for transmission over the Internet, which we monitor, test and update on an ongoing basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our services to scale securely, reliably and cost effectively considering, among other things, the Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which assembles standards, guidelines and practices. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously. Our cloud services have received an extensive set of third-party data protection compliance certifications and attestations across geographical regions and industries, demonstrating our unwavering commitment to customer trust.Rapid deployment and lower total cost of ownership. Our services can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the servers, storage, networking equipment, security products or other hardware and software. We enable customers to achieve up-front savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model. Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they generally pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract. We further reduce the total cost of ownership of our cloud services over the subscription term by delivering multiple releases per year which automatically introduce new features and functionality, while preserving previous customizations and integrations that minimize additional customer engineering investment for compatibility.Ease of integration and configuration. Our customers and partners are able to integrate and configure our solutions with existing applications quickly and seamlessly. We provide a set of application programming interfaces (“APIs”) that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our solutions with existing third-party, custom and legacy apps and write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. For example, many of our customers use our Salesforce Platform API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and packaged applications into our services on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their activities. Administrators, developers and business users can also take advantage of our custom-branded tool sets with point-and-click ease to develop reusable components to tailor and extend the CRM experience with AI, IoT data and content.Ease of use. We have designed our solutions to be intuitive and easy to use. Our solutions contain many modern and recognizable tools and features that are similar to popular consumer websites, which provide a more familiar user experience than traditional enterprise software. As a result, our users can often use and gain benefit from our solutions with minimal training.Rapid development of apps. Our customers and third-party developers can create apps rapidly because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to configure our applications to suit their specific needs and also support a variety of programming languages so developers can code complex apps spanning 5Table of Contentsmultiple business processes. By providing infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new and innovative apps without having to invest in hardware. Developers can create, test and support their apps on the Salesforce Platform and make their apps accessible for a subscription fee to customers. With millions of installations of third-party developed apps, the AppExchange demonstrates the growing Salesforce ecosystem.Continuous innovation. We release hundreds of new features to all of our customers multiple times a year. Our metadata-driven, multi-tenant cloud enables every customer to run their business on the latest release without disruption. We readily embrace the ideas and opinions of our Trailblazer community, comprised of customers, innovators, technology disruptors and global shapers, through our Ideas Exchange, which is a forum to provide feedback and suggest new features for future service releases. Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the upgrade release date, benefiting all of our customers immediately.Positive environmental impact. Our multi-tenant cloud computing model has a much smaller environmental footprint than traditional Information Technology ("IT") hardware and software. When organizations move business applications to Salesforce, they can significantly reduce their energy use and carbon footprint compared to traditional on-premises solutions.Our Growth StrategyWe invest for future growth by focusing on the following key priorities:Cross selling and upselling. We see significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our services, we aim to upgrade the customer experience with premium editions and additional subscriptions by targeting new functional areas and business units, ultimately becoming our customers' trusted advisors, inspiring enterprise-wide digital transformation and accelerating strategic engagements through direct discussions with the highest levels of our customers' executive management.Extending existing service offerings. We offer multiple editions of our service offerings at different price points to meet the needs of customers of different sizes and we have designed our solutions to accommodate new features and functionality. We intend to continue to extend all editions of our service offerings with new features, functions and increased security through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. Over the past year, for example, we have invested heavily in the AI capabilities of Einstein, which allows users of our products to deliver more predictive customer experiences, as well as innovations like Lightning and Trailhead that elevate the entire platform.Reducing customer attrition. Our goal is to have all of our customers renew their subscriptions prior to the end of their contractual terms. We run customer success and other related programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.Expanding and strengthening the partner ecosystem. We continue to work with strategic system integrators (SIs) and independent software vendors (ISVs) to reach new markets and industries, offer a variety of solutions and apps through the AppExchange, and address the business requirements of both current and future customers.International expansion. We continue to increase our investment in our international go-to-market resources, operations and infrastructure to deliver the highest quality service to our customers around the world.Targeting vertical industries. To meet the needs of our customers in certain industries, we also provide solutions specifically built for certain vertical industries, such as financial services, healthcare and public sector.Expanding into new horizontal markets. As part of our growth strategy, which is driven both organically and through acquisitions, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, commerce and IoT.Extending go-to-market capabilities. We believe that our offerings provide significant value for businesses of any size. We will continue to pursue businesses of all sizes in top industries and major regions globally, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our solutions around the globe.Ensuring strong customer adoption. We believe that we have the people, processes and proven innovation to help companies transform successfully. We have free, curated resources such as Trailhead to help companies of every size get up to speed, as well as advisory services, technical architects and business strategists to enable and accelerate digital transformation.Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platform. The Salesforce Platform enables customers, ISVs and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud-based apps. It is a platform on which apps can be created, tested, published and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of developers and software vendors will address the business requirements of both current and future customers.In addition to the key elements of our business strategy described above, from time to time, we evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property rights. This evaluation resulted in our acquisition of several companies in the past few years.6Table of ContentsTechnology, Development and OperationsWe deliver our Salesforce solutions as highly scalable, cloud computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate tenants who run in virtual isolation from each other. This approach allows us to spread the cost of delivering our services across our user base and scale our business faster than traditional software vendors while focusing our resources on building new functionality.We provide the majority of our services to our customers from infrastructure designed and operated by us but secured within third-party data center facilities located in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and other countries. These third-party data center operators provide space, physical security, continuous power and cooling. In combination with these third-party data center facilities, we also provide our services via cloud computing platform partners who offer Infrastructure as a Service, including servers, storage, databases and networking. The use of cloud computing platform partners provides us flexibility to service customers in new and emerging regions and those with in-country data privacy requirements, as well as to support acquired companies.Our technology and product efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality, performance, availability and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new features, functionality and services. Performance, functional depth, security and the usability of our solutions influence our technology decisions and product direction.Sources of RevenueFor revenue reporting purposes, we group all of our service offerings into four major categories: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Salesforce Platform and Other, and Marketing and Commerce Cloud. Our subscription and support revenues are disaggregated into these four core offerings. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Revenue by Cloud Service Offering” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.We derive our revenues primarily from subscription and support fees for our services. We also derive revenues from related professional services via the Success Cloud.We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement date of each contract. We enter into professional services contracts that are on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. We recognize revenue as the services are rendered for time and materials contracts, when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer or on a proportional performance basis for fixed price contracts or ratably over the contract term for subscription professional services.Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We generally invoice customers in annual installments.Deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding effects of customer renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and our first quarter is generally our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.CustomersWe sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2018, 2017 or 2016.Customer Service and SupportOur global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support that is either included in a premium offering or sold for an additional fee, which can include services such as priority access to technical resources, developer support, and system administration. In addition, we offer a mission critical support add-on that is 7Table of Contentsdesigned to provide customers with responses for incidents from a dedicated team knowledgeable about the customer's specific enterprise architecture, and which offers instruction to optimize their usage of our products.Sales and MarketingWe sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads.We have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects. This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and other partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service.Our marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners and developers. We focus our marketing activities on the cities and countries with the largest market opportunity.Our primary marketing activities include:•Multi-channel marketing campaigns that span email, social, web and more, which align to a broader customer journey;•Customer events of all sizes to create customer and prospect awareness, including proprietary events such as Dreamforce and World Tours, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events;•Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, offerings and value proposition;•Content marketing and engagement on all of the major social channels;•Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our web properties;•Partner co-marketing activities with global and regional implementation partners;•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, case studies, white papers and marketing collateral;•Customer testimonials; •Cultivating a community of Trailblazers who embrace our Company values and evangelize our offerings;•Tools that enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers;•Event sponsorships; and •Primary real estate signage.We organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, such as the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, which includes Japan. The majority of our revenue from the Americas is attributable to customers in the United States. Approximately 28 percent of our revenue for fiscal 2018 comes from customers outside of the Americas.CompetitionThe market for our service offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our current competitors include:•Vendors of packaged business software, as well as companies offering enterprise apps delivered through on-premises offerings from enterprise software application vendors and cloud computing application service providers, either individually or with others;•Software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;•Internally developed enterprise applications (by our potential customers’ IT departments);•Marketing vendors, which may be specialized in advertising, targeting, messaging, or campaign automation;•E-commerce solutions from emerging cloud-only vendors and established on-premises vendors; •Traditional platform development environment companies and cloud computing development platform companies who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services;•IoT platforms from large companies that have existing relationships with hardware and software companies; and•AI solutions from new startups and established companies.8Table of ContentsWe believe that as traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they may become a greater competitive threat.Strategic InvestmentsSince 2009, we have been investing in early- to late-stage technology and professional cloud service companies across the globe to support our key business initiatives, which include, among other things, extending the capabilities of our platform and service offerings, increasing the ecosystem of enterprise cloud companies and partners, accelerating the adoption of cloud technologies and creating the next-generation of mobile applications and connected products. Our minority investments in over 200 companies as of January 31, 2018 also help us stay connected with the rapid pace of innovation that is currently occurring within the technology industry. In some cases, we have acquired companies in which we have previously invested. Due to the inherent risk in investing, our individual investments are subject to a risk of partial or total loss of investment capital.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brands. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our service offerings. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, fostering open source software or attracting and enabling our external development community. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products.EmployeesAs of January 31, 2018, we had more than 29,000 employees. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union, however, for certain foreign subsidiaries, works councils represent our employees.Available InformationOur Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, can be obtained free of charge from our website at http://investor.salesforce.com/about-us/investor/financials/ or by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.