BusinessGeneralF5 is a multi-cloud application security and delivery company. We see a world where our customers’ applications adapt to changing environments, automating redundant processes for greater efficiencies, expanding and contracting based on performance needs, protecting themselves, and securing points of vulnerability. By mining all of these data points, applications get smarter, insightful, become self-healing, and evolve even more quickly.Our enterprise-grade solutions are available in a range of consumption models, from on-premises to managed services, optimized for multi-cloud environments. In connection with our solutions, we offer a broad range of professional services, including consulting, training, installation, maintenance, and other technical support services.On January 24, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Shape Security ("Shape"), a leader in online fraud and abuse prevention, adding protection against automated attacks, bots, and targeted fraud to F5’s world-class portfolio of application delivery and security solutions. The acquisition delivers value to customers by combining F5’s expertise in powering over half of the world’s applications across multi-cloud environments, with Shape’s insight from mitigating one billion application attacks per day through sophisticated AI, cloud-based analytics, and anti-fraud technologies. Together, F5 and Shape represent an end-to-end application security solution, reducing infrastructure complexity, protecting our customers against losses from online fraud, reputational damage, and disruptions to critical online services. Our customers include large enterprise businesses, public sector institutions, governments, and service providers. We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. Our business is organized into the following three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and the Asia Pacific region (APAC). Our revenue is comprised of services revenue and product revenue. While the majority of our product revenue today is derived from appliance sales, we are actively managing a transformation to a software- and SaaS-driven business with software revenue growing 52% in fiscal year 2020 and representing 35% of product revenue.F5 was incorporated on February 26, 1996 in the state of Washington. Our headquarters is in Seattle, Washington, and our mailing address is 801 5th Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104-1663. The telephone number at that location is (206) 272-5555. Our website is www.f5.com. We have 71 subsidiaries, branch offices, or representative offices worldwide. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably possible after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished 3Table of Contentspursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report.Strategy and PrioritiesF5 is focused on solving our customers’ most important application challenges. We have successfully evolved our business as the needs of our customers have changed. Today, our customers need to cost effectively deliver extraordinary digital experiences to their end users. F5’s portfolio of multi-cloud application security and delivery technologies enables our customers to scale, secure and optimize both traditional and modern applications, making those amazing digital experiences possible. By creating adaptive applications, capable of adapting to changing environments, automating redundant processes for greater efficiencies, expanding and contracting based on performance needs, protecting themselves, and securing points of vulnerability, we are reducing operating complexity associated with delivering a mix of traditional and modern applications while also enabling consistent security for every application, regardless of its environment. Our ability to mine and analyze data from applications helps customers unlock valuable application insights while making applications smarter, enabling self-healing and automation to evolve them more quickly. Key components of our strategy include:Bringing our adaptive application vision to life F5 is uniquely positioned to deliver adaptive applications. Through our organic investments and the acquisitions of NGINX in May 2019 and Shape Security in January 2020, we have assembled the broadest portfolio of application security and delivery technologies in the market today. As a result of the continued evolution of our BIG-IP family, we enable customers to transition traditional applications from data centers to multi-cloud environments while maintaining private data center levels of security. At the same time, we are enabling modern application architectures with our NGINX technologies, F5 SaaS offerings, and Aspen Mesh. Our State of Applications Services report 2020 shows 76% of organizations are managing a complex application portfolio spanning traditional and modern applications. F5 is unique in our ability to span both traditional and modern applications, as a result, our customers are able to provision consistent, and industry-leading application security across their combined traditional and modern application portfolio. We are leveraging our access to application data and our analytics capabilities to enable automation and unlock business insights for our customers.Transforming how customers experience F5As we expand the role we play for our customers, we are also transforming how our customers experience F5. We have made it easier for our customers to procure, deploy, manage, and upgrade our technologies by introducing new consumption models and continuing to evolve our solutions’ capabilities.  As we have expanded our offerings, we are better able to solve a broader range of customer challenges and increasingly, customers are choosing a suite of F5 solutions. Going forward we will leverage and grow our foundational capabilities in data and insights, digital sales, and SaaS-delivered capabilities to deliver consistent world-class customer experiences, including simple, integrated and friction-free consumption of our technologies. We will continue to improve customer understanding of F5’s expanded portfolio with a focus on buying personas and business needs and intend to enhance our digital customer experiences to deliver both growth and efficiency.Capturing growth in security and softwareOur ability to serve both traditional and modern applications means we are uniquely suited to provide consistent, industry-leading security across our customers entire application estate. Over the last ten years, enterprises were focused on protecting their networks from attack. F5 Labs Threat Research shows a 300% increase in attacks on applications in the past two years. With cyber criminals increasingly attacking applications and their users, we believe application security will be an area of significant investment over the next decade.Our acquisition of Shape Security brings the leader in online fraud and abuse prevention, adding protection against automated attacks, bots, and targeted fraud, to F5’s world-class portfolio of application security and delivery technologies. Together, F5 and Shape represent an end-to-end application security solution, reducing infrastructure complexity, protecting our customers against losses from online fraud, reputational damage, and disruptions to critical online services. In the last several years, we have significantly enhanced and expanded our software offerings. Our meaningful software growth over the last two years has largely been driven by steps we have taken to improve automation and orchestration in our BIG-IP software, making it easier to procure, deploy and upgrade, as well as the introduction of new flexible commercial models, including annual and longer-term subscriptions. We expect to drive continued software growth from additional enhancements to our BIG-IP family, as well as advancements and continued adoption of NGINX, application security, Shape and cloud services.4Table of ContentsF5 Products and SolutionsF5’s portfolio of multi-cloud application security and delivery technologies are enabling customers to address the challenges of delivering differentiated digital experiences to their customers.Simplifying traditional app delivery for multi-cloud environmentsOur BIG-IP family of offerings provides feature-rich, highly programmable and configurable application delivery solutions for traditional applications in enterprises and service providers. Traditional applications are based on monolithic, three-tier, or client-server architectures which remain the dominant architecture for millions of core business, customer-facing, and internally used applications in most organizations. Refined over 20+ years of experience and innovation, BIG-IP has established itself as the leading application delivery technology for traditional applications, providing load balancing, and DNS services. Many customers also use the advanced security capabilities of BIG-IP, including Web Application Firewall, carrier-grade firewall and NAT, identity-aware proxy, SSL-VPN, and SSL offloading, that are available as tightly-integrated modules or extensions. Via the F5 Automation Toolchain, BIG-IP capabilities easily integrate into orchestration frameworks such as Ansible, HashiCorp Terraform, OpenShift, and Cloud Foundry as part of a CI/CD pipeline.BIG-IP capabilities are available in software-only Virtual Editions (VEs) that deploy on any standard hypervisor in private and public clouds and are available in many performance throughput options. VE can be deployed on public clouds, including Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform, through Bring Your Own License (BYOL) and the public cloud marketplaces. Virtual Edition is available via utility pricing (via public cloud marketplaces), short- and long-term subscription, and perpetual licensing models. In addition, F5 offers customers additional licensing, consumption flexibility, and value via Enterprise Licensing Agreements. BIG-IP Cloud Edition (CE) is a software offering that enables customers to leverage BIG-IP capabilities in virtualized and cloud-based environments on a per-application basis. CE provides right-sized packaging and pricing and enhanced manageability for organizations that want to deploy dedicated BIG-IP services to support individual applications.F5 BIG-IQ Centralized Management provides central management, analytics, and automation for BIG-IP instances. Available in virtual or physical form factors, BIG-IQ simplifies, enhances management of, and reduces customer operational costs associated with BIG-IP deployments. F5’s physical systems are designed to enhance the performance of our software by leveraging a combination of custom FPGA logic and off-the-shelf silicon, providing a balance of cost and flexibility. Currently, we offer two types of physical configurations: BIG-IP iSeries appliances and our chassis-based VIPRION systems. Both BIG-IP iSeries and VIPRION systems run the same BIG-IP software modules as are available in the Virtual Edition and are licensed on a perpetual basis. To help customers comply with regulatory requirements and protect sensitive data, our physical systems are certified up to NIST FIPS 140-2 Level 2 and Common Criteria Evaluation Assurance Level (EAL 4+). BIG-IP iSeries appliances and chassis-based VIPRION systems differ primarily in their performance and size characteristics resulting from the hardware components and configurations that make up these systems. The iSeries appliance lineup ranges from the entry-level BIG-IP i2000 series for small and medium-sized organizations to the highest-performing BIG-IP i15000 series for large enterprises and service providers. Currently, we offer four chassis-based systems: VIPRION 4800, VIPRION 4480, VIPRION 2400, and VIPRION 2200. We also offer the VIPRION 4450 blade for VIPRION 4800 (8-blade chassis) and VIPRION 4480 (4-blade chassis). Enabling modern app delivery at scaleTo better address the needs of digitally transforming enterprises that have a mix of traditional, three-tier architectures and cloud-first microservices architectures, our NGINX technologies offer lightweight, agile ADC and API management software for container-built applications, CI/CD workflows, and microservices. Our NGINX technology enables developer and DevOps agility to get applications to market quickly, with security and automation closer to the code. F5 SaaS offerings support modern cloud application delivery and security use cases for cloud-native applications, making it easier for developers and DevOps engineers to build in the application services required for production.Our NGINX product offerings are:•NGINX Plus, an all-in-one load balancer, web server, content cache, and API gateway for modern applications.•NGINX Controller, which provides orchestration and analytics for NGINX Plus.•NGINX Ingress Controller and NGINX Service Mesh, which provide traffic management for Kubernetes clusters.•NGINX App Protect, which integrates F5’s market-leading WAF with the flexibility and performance of NGINX Plus.5Table of ContentsWe believe the combination of F5 and NGINX solutions help our customers enable adaptive applications in container, cloud-native, and microservices environments, providing the ease-of-use and flexibility developers require while also delivering the scale, security, reliability, and enterprise readiness network operations teams demand.Securing every app, anywhereF5’s advanced application security services, including DDoS mitigation, web application firewall (WAF), bot protection, and SSL/TLS traffic decryption provide best-in-class enterprise infrastructure protection across any deployment type, from on-premises to cloud.With Essential App Protect SaaS and NGINX App Protect software offerings, F5 provides its advanced security capabilities for development and DevOps teams. Both Essential App Protect and NGINX App Protect provide self-service access and API-driven integration into automation and orchestration frameworks. Often referred to as “shifting security left”, or DevSecOps, this ensures security is applied earlier in the software development lifecycle and covers the full portfolio of modern and long-tail applications in the enterprise.Shape's technology addresses the increasing sophistication of fraud and abuse attacks. Shape’s artificial intelligence platform protects the largest banks, airlines, retailers, and federal agencies against bots and fraud which bypass best-practice industry security controls. Shape protects more than one billion accounts worldwide against credential stuffing attacks, the industry’s leading cybersecurity threat.Shape’s advanced technology consists of next-generation client-side JavaScript and SDKs (software development kits), horizontally scalable reverse proxy and API services, and large-scale machine learning, analytics, and data platform systems, which work together to deliver the highest anti-fraud efficacy in the industry. This technology is sold as integrated, fully-managed services, in an “outcome-as-a-service” cybersecurity model.Silverline provides customers fully-managed application security. Current offerings include Silverline Web Application Firewall, Silverline DDoS Protection, and Silverline Threat Intelligence Services. These services provide enterprise and service provider customers with F5’s proven security technologies coupled with world-class security professionals. Silverline’s Security Operations Center experts set up, manage, and support each customer's application solutions as an extension to the customer’s staff. Shape technology was combined in F5's fiscal third quarter with F5's Silverline managed services platform to launch Silverline Shape Defense, creating a version of Shape’s technology platform capabilities for customers who prefer a managed service.Depending on the level of protection required, customers can route traffic through the Silverline cloud-based platform 24/7 or only when an attack is detected. Silverline Managed Services also provides an affordable and straightforward deployment alternative for customers who want to minimize the upfront costs and expense of maintaining on-premises solutions. For large enterprises, subscribing to Silverline Managed Services in conjunction with our on-premises DDoS Hybrid Defender and Advanced WAF can provide the first line of defense against attacks, and prevent them from having a significant downtime impact on their application or network services.Unlocking the value of application insightsBeacon, a SaaS application launched in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, enables cross-platform visibility and analytics of application service performance and security. By fusing the broad telemetry available via in-situ F5 products with third-party data sources and end-user monitoring capabilities, Beacon helps customers detect and resolve application performance and security issues helping reduce mean-time-to-detect, -innocence, and -repair enabling better end-user experiences.Shape’s technology platform enables generalized AI-powered user analytics. While Shape has focused on using these capabilities to detect advanced fraud and abuse, going forward, the same technology is being integrated throughout F5 to create general AI-powered user analytics capabilities within and beyond cybersecurity use cases.Service Provider SolutionsBIG-IP offerings also comprise our service provider solutions that address the complex requirements for enabling fast, secure, reliable communications among the elements of existing infrastructures such as 4G/LTE and evolving to newly designed cloud-native 5G networks, network functions virtualization (NFV) environments, and edge computing.In addition to the solutions described above, F5 also offers solutions for fixed and mobile service provider customers to enable fast, secure, reliable communications in their networks. These solutions include intelligent traffic management services to classify and manipulate network traffic to successfully manage and migrate to newer technologies such as IPv4 to IPv6 and 4G to 5G. Our carrier-class network firewall services are used to secure the Gi/N6 interface, secure signaling threats and IoT 6Table of Contentsapplications, and detect and mitigate DDoS attacks. Our solutions are also used by our customers to secure complex signaling for mobility protocols like Diameter, SIP, and GTP, as well as IoT protocols. All F5 software solutions can be delivered on dedicated F5 hardware, as Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) that can use F5 VNF Manager or other industry solutions to deploy and manage VNF instances, and are evolving as Container Network Functions (CNF).CompetitionAs F5 expands its reach and role into a broader set of multi-cloud solutions, the companies that we consider competitors changes too. In addition to server load balancing, traffic management, and other functions normally associated with application delivery, our suite of solutions has expanded our addressable market into security, and policy management, where we compete with a number of companies focused on niche areas of application security. The ability to create customized, programmable services (e.g., using iRules) enables our customers and our partners to design solutions to problems for which there is no off-the-shelf solution. As a result, we believe the traditional definitions of our market do not encompass all of the features, functions, and capabilities of our products, or accurately represent the addressable market for our solutions.Within the more narrowly defined traditional ADC market, several companies sell server load balancing products and capabilities. These include Citrix Systems, Radware, and a number of other competitors that have a smaller market presence or limited feature set, such as A10 Networks, Amazon Web Services, Array Networks, Barracuda Networks, HAProxy, Kemp Technologies, Microsoft Azure, and VMware.In application security, we compete with companies that provide web application firewalls, bot detection and mitigation, carrier-grade firewall, carrier-grade NAT, SSL orchestration, access policy management, DDoS protection, and fraud defense. Competitors include A10 Networks, Akamai, Cisco, Citrix Systems, Imperva, Juniper Networks, Radware, and Symantec/Blue Coat. With the addition of Shape, additional fraud, abuse, and analytics solutions become indirect competitors, including Akamai, Cloudflare, Imperva (Distil Networks), Fastly (Signal Sciences) and PerimeterX.The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we compete include form factor, consumption model, ecosystem integrations, features and performance, customer support, brand recognition, scope of distribution and sales channels, and pricing. Some of our competitors have already tried or plan to adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. However, because F5 offers superior performance, broad functionality, including lighter-weight options with NGINX and F5 Cloud Services, we believe that we can and will compete effectively against such pricing policies.Corporate FunctionsCustomer Services and Technical SupportIn connection with our products, we offer a broad range of professional services including consulting, training, installation, maintenance, and other technical support services.We believe that our ability to provide consistent, high-quality customer service and technical support is a key factor in attracting and retaining large enterprise and service provider customers. Accordingly, we offer a broad range of support services that includes installation, phone and online technical support, hardware repair and replacement, software updates, online tools, consulting, and training services.We provide these services directly to end users and also utilize a multi-tiered support model, leveraging the capabilities of our channel partners. Our technical support staff is strategically located in regional service centers to support our global customer base.Product DevelopmentWe believe our future success depends on our ability to maintain technology leadership by continuing to improve our products and by developing new products to meet the changing needs of our customers and partners. Our engineering organization uses standard processes for the development, documentation, and quality control of services, software, and systems that are designed to meet these goals. These processes include working with our business development and marketing teams, customers, and partners to identify technology innovation opportunities to better meet the evolving needs of our addressable markets.Over 90 percent of our engineers are engaged in software, SaaS, and managed services development in eight major locations. The BIG-IP LTM, DNS, and Automation Tool Chain offerings are primarily developed in Seattle, Washington and Hyderabad, India. Development of security products is centered in Tel Aviv, Israel and San Jose, California with our web application firewall and WebSafe/MobileSafe centered in Tel Aviv, and our core firewall (AFM) and identity and access and SSL-offloading products and technologies developed primarily in San Jose. Policy Enforcement Manager is also developed in 7Table of ContentsSan Jose and Hyderabad, India. NGINX products are developed in San Francisco, California; Cork, Ireland; and Moscow, Russia.Our hardware engineering team is located in Spokane, Washington; San Jose, California; and Tel Aviv, Israel.Smaller development sites including Boulder, Colorado; Warsaw, Poland; and Billerica, Massachusetts also support the core development teams in the larger centers.Members of all our engineering teams collaborate closely with one another to ensure the interoperability and performance of our solutions.We believe that robust and constant innovation is a necessity for F5, so we are also innovating in new ways. For more than a year now, we have had dedicated teams focused on testing new disruptive innovations in technology, business models, or customer segments. We expect innovations resulting from the work of these teams will be complementary to our goal of delivering the broadest and most consistent portfolio of solutions across cloud and on-premises environments.We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. F5 holds 387 patents in the United States and has 44 international patents (with applications pending for various aspects of our technology). Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use trade secrets or other information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Any issued patent may not preserve our proprietary position, and competitors or others may develop technologies similar to or superior to our technology. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.In addition to our own proprietary software, we incorporate software licensed from several third-party sources into our products. These are generally term licenses which may renew annually and that generally provide for certain rights and licenses to support our customers post termination. While we may not be able to renew all of these licenses in the future, we believe that alternative technologies for these licenses are available both domestically and internationally.During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we had research and product development expenses of $441.3 million, $408.1 million, and $366.1 million, respectively.Sales and MarketingOur customers include a wide variety of enterprises and service providers among Fortune 1000 and Business Week Global 1000 companies, including those in technology, telecommunications, financial services, transportation, education, manufacturing, healthcare, and government. In fiscal year 2020, sales outside of the Americas represented 44.0% of our net revenues. Refer to Note 16 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our revenues by geographic area.SalesWe sell our products and services to large and medium enterprise customers, including federal government entities, financial services customers and service providers through a variety of routs to market and channels. Our sales teams sell our products and services directly to customers by working closely with our channel partners including distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), managed service providers (MSPs), and systems integrators.F5 sales teams. Our inside sales team generates and qualifies leads from marketing and helps manage accounts by serving as a liaison between the field and internal corporate resources. Our outside sales team works directly with partners and customers across the globe. Our field sales personnel are located in major cities in three sales regions: the Americas (primarily the United States); Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and the Asia Pacific region (APAC). Field sales personnel work closely with our channel partners to sell our products and services to their customers. We reward partners that identify new business and provide sales expertise for our portfolio of products and solutions through various incentive programs. Systems engineers, with deep technical domain expertise, support our regional sales account managers and channel partners providing pre-sale technical solution engineering and support, as needed.Distributors, VARs, and MSPs. As a key component of our sales strategy, we have established relationships with a number of large national and international distributors, local and specialized distributors, VARs, and MSPs. We derive a majority of our product sales from VARs and MSPs, relying on our large distributors for fulfillment, training, and partner enablement.8Table of ContentsOur agreements with our channel partners are not exclusive and do not prevent them from selling competitive products. These agreements typically have one-year terms with no obligation to renew, and typically do not provide for exclusive sales territories or minimum purchase requirements.For fiscal year 2020, sales to one of our worldwide distributors, Ingram Micro, Inc., represented 16.7% of our total revenues. Our agreements with distributors are standard, non-exclusive distribution agreements that renew automatically on an annual basis and generally can be terminated by either party with 90 days written notice prior to the start of any renewal term. The agreements grant certain distributors the right to distribute our products to resellers, with no minimum purchase requirements.Systems integrators. We also market our products through strategic relationships with systems integrators, including Dell Services, DXC, HP Enterprise Services, and IBM Global Services, who include our products as core components of application deployments or network-based solutions they deploy for their customers. In most cases, systems integrators do not directly purchase our products for resale to their customers. Instead they typically recommend and/or manage our products as a part of broader solutions supporting enterprise applications and Internet facing systems that incorporate our technology for security, high availability, and enhanced performance.Resellers and technology partners. Historically, our ability to compete with much larger companies has been strengthened through partnerships with large systems and software vendors. Currently, we partner with many technology partners and public cloud providers who resell our products. We have ongoing partnerships with the major cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform and have expanded our reseller routes to market to include their public cloud marketplaces. F5 has recently signed a Strategic Collaboration Agreement (SCA) with AWS, and are actively engaged with Microsoft Azure on private offers levering our software on Azure. Our business development team manages these relationships and closely monitors adjacent and complementary markets for opportunities to partner with those whose solutions are complementary to ours and could enable us to expand our addressable market.MarketingAs we continue to expand our offerings beyond hardware and advance our range of consumption models (e.g. from on-premises to managed services), we continue to focus on driving a compelling and unique value proposition of F5 among our existing customers as well as new buying centers. In addition to revitalizing our brand in the market, our expansion into new buying centers among existing customers (DevOps for example), exploration of new routes to market (such as public cloud marketplaces), and acquisition of a host of net new customers, compels us to increase our focus and investments in more digitally-enabled, personalized and effortless experiences at scale.We are increasing our focus on efforts to drive momentum behind our brand and reputation to deliver clarity, guidance and inspiration among our existing customers, future customers, partners, and employees around our evolving strategy behind F5’s unique offering. Additionally, to best support our growth as we transform our role in driving value for our customers, we are underway with transforming marketing from a cost center to one of a revenue center to serve as a meaningful and predictable source of opportunities, customer growth and ultimately revenues. The critical success factors in this shift are increased investments in digital technologies, requisite competencies, and shifting our culture to adopt an agile mindset as we use data to constantly improve our contributions to our customers and ultimately our shareholders.ManufacturingWe outsource the manufacturing of our pre-configured hardware platfor