BusinessGeneralF5 Networks is a leading provider of multi-cloud application services, which enable our customers to develop, deploy, operate, secure, and govern applications in any architecture, from on-premises to the public cloud. Our cloud, software, and hardware solutions enable our customers to deliver digital experiences to their customers faster, reliably, and at scale.Our enterprise-grade application services are available as cloud-based, software-as-a-service, and software-only solutions optimized for multi-cloud environments, with modules that can run independently, or as part of an integrated solution on our high-performance appliances. In connection with our solutions, we offer a broad range of professional services, including consulting, training, installation, maintenance, and other technical support services.On May 8, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Nginx, Inc. ("NGINX"), the open source leader in application delivery for modern applications. NGINX is the world’s leading web server by market share, powering more than 400 million websites. The acquisition enables F5 to offer multi-cloud application services across a broader range of environments than either company could have addressed independently, providing the ease-of-use and flexibility developers require while also delivering the scale, security, reliability, and enterprise readiness IT operations teams demand.Our customers include large enterprise businesses, public sector institutions, governments, and service providers. We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. Our business is organized into the following three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, China, and Japan (APAC). Total revenue in fiscal year 2019 increased 4% to $2,242 million. Total revenue is comprised of services revenue of $1,257 million and product revenue of $986 million. While the majority of our product revenue today is derived from appliance sales, we are actively managing a transformation to a software- and SaaS-driven business with software revenue growing 60% in fiscal year 2019.At the end of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, we had product backlog of approximately $17.4 million and $30.5 million, respectively. Backlog represents orders confirmed with a purchase order for products to be shipped generally within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Orders are subject to cancellation, rescheduling by customers, or product specification changes by customers. Although we believe that the backlog orders are firm, purchase orders may be canceled by the customerprior to shipment without significant penalty. For this reason, we believe that our product backlog at any given date is not a reliable indicator of future revenues.F5 Networks was incorporated on February 26, 1996 in the state of Washington. Our headquarters is in Seattle, Washington, and our mailing address is 801 5th Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98104-1663. The telephone number at that location is (206) 272-5555. Our website is www.f5.com. We have 73 subsidiaries, branch offices, or representative offices worldwide. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably possible after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report.3Table of ContentsStrategy and PrioritiesF5 is at an inflection point, moving from a hardware-centric, ADC leader to a multi-cloud application services leader that helps over 25,000 enterprise customers with their digital transformations; enabling them to be more application-centric, and decreasing the time it takes to bring an application to market. F5 is uniquely positioned to offer an application services architecture that spans from code creation to end user; making it possible for our customers to develop and deploy their applications in days instead of months, securely and at scale, across any environment.IDC estimates there were over 314 million enterprise application workloads in the world in 2018, and forecasts that number to grow to approximately 1.8 billion by 2023. While the number of applications is growing 5x, the complexity of deploying, managing, and securing these applications is increasing with enterprises embracing new, highly distributed architectures and multi-cloud environments. Simultaneously, the risk of cyber-attacks is increasing with the majority of threats targeting applications or the identity of the person accessing that application.Our goal is to lead the industry in providing application services that ensure the secure, fast, and reliable delivery of applications to any user, anywhere, anytime - regardless of a user's location or where the application resides. These application services include availability, security, performance, and visibility. They also include managing and orchestrating resources, as well as coordinating services across multiple data centers, networks, and cloud-based resources. Key components of our strategy include:Expanding our addressable market by being multi-platform and multi-cloud while expanding the value we deliver with a growing range of application services.Today our platform reach extends across all the different ways that customers want to consume application services. In addition to our hardware appliances and software-based virtual editions, F5 application services can also be consumed via standalone software, on a per-application basis, via a SaaS model, and as a managed service. These deployment models mean that F5 services can follow the application wherever it resides, whether in a private data center, a private cloud, a public cloud, microservices environments, or across a multi-cloud environment.We also continue to expand the number of services we offer. We have developed a portfolio of application services that extends beyond our industry-leading traffic management capabilities to encompass advanced security functionality, including web application firewall (WAF), anti-bot, access management, SSL termination and orchestration, Layer-4 firewall, and DDoS protection. We are also investing heavily in services that increase application portfolio visibility, as well as services to help customers increase the value of their applications by extracting data and insights via an analytics engine.Our multifaceted approach addresses the needs of today’s evolving hybrid infrastructures and sharply differentiates our products from our competitors’ offerings. Moreover, in step with our product development efforts and acquisition strategies, we believe our current addressable market is significantly broader and more diverse than the ADC market as industry analysts have defined it.Investing in technology to meet evolving customer needs.We meet with our customers often and maintain multiple customer advisory relationships to ensure that our development efforts are aligned with their needs. We continue to invest in research and development efforts that leverage the unique attributes of our Traffic Management Operating System (TMOS) platform as well as new technologies to deliver new features and functions that address the complex, changing needs of our customers. The majority of our investment is related to software development, though we continue concurrent development of tightly integrated hardware that delivers consistent high-performance. We also look for opportunities to acquire technologies that either extend our reach to new applications or expand our role in developing, deploying, operating, securing, and governing those applications. NGINX, for example, extends our reach to cloud-native and microservices environments and extends our role into application servers, web servers, and API gateways.Continuing to build and expand relationships with strategic technology partners.F5 works with many of the world’s leading technology companies to improve manageability, enable automation, strengthen security, and ensure faster and more successful deployments. Joint customers benefit from the integration and interoperability that result from this close collaboration. In recent years, we have developed partnerships with leading public cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, and Alibaba Cloud. We continue to partner with and build integrations for Equinix, Cisco, Dell, FireEye, IBM/Red Hat, Okta, and VMware. Enabling modern DevOps practices is critical for our customers practicing agile development and accelerating applications’ time to market. F5 integrates into automation toolkits for deploying application services into Ansible, HashiCorp/Terraform, Chef, Puppet, and Salt Stack. For microservices in container environments, F5 integrates with Kubernetes and Red Hat OpenShift to enable application services in north-south traffic, enhances basic Kubernetes environments natively with 4Table of Contentsenterprise-grade delivery services, and runs a simplified service mesh in Kubernetes for east-west traffic. Strong, evolving partner integrations allow organizations to inject enterprise-grade application services into their CI/CD toolchains, which means that developers can focus all their energy on creating applications that delight customers and deliver business value.We plan to continue building on our existing relationships and to extend our competitive edge by developing new strategic partnerships with other technology leaders and emerging players.Engaging in open source and technology communities.  F5 demonstrated its belief in open source technologies with the acquisition of NGINX, the popular open source project trusted by more than 400 million websites and developers worldwide. This commitment to open source and developer communities will continue as we build on the momentum of 2019. In fiscal 2019, F5 reached over 25,000 technologists at DevOps community events, and saw threefold increases in DevOps Share of Voice metrics with the NGINX acquisition. F5 will continue its DevOps community engagement, investing in thought-leadership initiatives, and hiring technical fellows in the Office of the CTO.   We will continue to support our network architects as they manage and play a bigger role in leading their company’s digital transformations. Our online community, DevCentral, lets customers and partners discuss and share the ways in which they use our programmable technologies to solve problems and enhance the security, performance, and availability of their applications. DevCentral also provides a valuable window into our customers’ constantly evolving needs that helps guide product development efforts; a number of solutions posted by DevCentral participants have already become standard features in newer product releases.F5 Products and SolutionsF5 is expanding its portfolio of multi-cloud application services to address the modern enterprise’s need for scalable, performant, secure, and available applications, delivered at speed from the time of coding to end-user interaction with the application or service. Our BIG-IP software offerings continue to provide feature-rich, highly customizable application delivery and security services for enterprise applications. BIG-IP offerings also comprise our incremental service provider solutions that address the complex needs of enabling fast, reliable communications among the elements of legacy infrastructures and existing packet-based 4G/LTE and evolving 5G networks, network functions virtualization (NFV) environments, and edge computing.To better address the needs of digitally transforming enterprises that will have a mix of traditional, three-tier architectures and cloud-first microservices architectures, NGINX offers a lightweight, agile ADC and API management software for container-built applications, CI/CD workflows, and microservices. NGINX enables developer and DevOps agility to get applications to market quickly, with security and automation closer to the code. F5 SaaS offerings support modern cloud application delivery and security use cases for cloud-native applications, making it easier for developers and DevOps engineers to build in the application services required for production.These solutions may be deployed on any infrastructure: on appliances and chassis, on premises, in colocation facilities, in private clouds, in public clouds, in microservices environments, or in hybrid or multi-cloud environments. In addition, F5 works with many of the world’s leading technology companies to improve manageability, strengthen security, and ensure faster and more successful deployments. Customers benefit from the integration and interoperability that results from this close collaboration and F5 products and solutions are designed with these partnerships in mind.Hardware PlatformsAll of our purpose-built hardware products are designed to enhance the performance of our software by leveraging a combination of custom FPGA logic and off-the-shelf silicon, providing a balance of cost and flexibility. Currently, we offer two types of hardware configurations: BIG-IP iSeries appliances and our chassis-based VIPRION products. Both BIG-IP iSeries and VIPRION systems run our BIG-IP software modules. Our hardware platforms have earned regulatory certifications such as NIST FIPS 140-2 Level 2 and Common Criteria Evaluation Assurance Level (EAL 4+) to help customers comply with regulatory requirements and protect sensitive data.Platforms in our family of BIG-IP iSeries appliances and VIPRION chassis-based systems differ primarily in their performance and size characteristics resulting from the hardware components and configurations that make up these systems. Enhancements in performance, scalability, and hardware programmability enable F5 products to run various software services. The iSeries appliance lineup ranges from the entry-level BIG-IP i2000 series for small and medium-sized organizations to the highest-performing BIG-IP i15000 series for large enterprises and service providers. Currently, we offer four chassis-based systems: VIPRION 4800, VIPRION 4480, VIPRION 2400, and VIPRION 2200. We also offer the VIPRION 4450 blade for VIPRION 4800 (8-blade chassis) and VIPRION 4480 (4-blade chassis). 5Table of ContentsSoftware and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) PlatformsOur software platforms are offered in a variety of licensing options including as a subscription, as part of an enterprise license agreement, as a perpetual license, and in a utility model through several F5 cloud partners.Traffic Management Operating System (TMOS)The core of our BIG-IP appliance and virtual edition application services technology is TMOS, our Traffic Management Operating System. The full-proxy characteristics of the TMOS architecture enable our products to intercept, inspect, and act on the contents of traffic from virtually every type of IP-enabled application. The most recent versions of TMOS deliver leading application services with enhanced public cloud integration and more sophisticated security policies for on-premises and multi-cloud environments. BIG-IP Software ModulesThe features and functions of F5 products provide integrated software services that cover a broad range of multi-cloud application services from intelligent L4-7 load balancing and DNS services to advanced application security services, including DDoS mitigation, web application firewall (WAF), bot protection, and SSL/TLS traffic decryption. These services are available as software modules designed to run on our appliances, as software-only Virtual Editions (VEs) with any standard hypervisor, in private and public clouds, and as-a-service via F5 Cloud Services. Software modules can be licensed individually or as part of an integrated system. In addition, our “Better” and “Best” offerings bundle certain modules and are sold at a discount on the price customers would pay if each of the included items were purchased separately. F5 also offers its software as subscription licenses with 1-, 2- and 3-year terms and enterprise licensing agreements (ELAs) with 3-year terms to give customers additional operational flexibility and predictable budgeting.BIG-IP Management and Orchestration SoftwareF5 BIG-IQ Centralized Management provides unified management, automation, and orchestration for BIG-IP virtual and physical devices and the services that run on them. Available in enterprise-grade virtual or physical form factors, BIG-IQ simplifies and enhances infrastructure and application services management and reduces customer operational costs. F5 Automation Toolchain provides a set of composable elements that deliver declarative, intent-based APIs for the F5 platform. These APIs are backed by strong API contracts that enable forward and backward compatibility, rapid iteration, and release. In addition to F5 Automation Toolchain, F5’s DevOps, Programmability, and API portfolio enables automation, orchestration, and partner integration capabilities across F5 product offerings. This portfolio includes an iControl REST platform API, customizable iApps templates, iRules programmability, and F5 Container Ingress Services (CIS) for container and Platform as a Service (PaaS) deployments. F5 also integrates with third-party orchestration systems such as Ansible, Terraform, Chef, and Puppet.BIG-IP Virtual Edition (VE) and BIG-IP Cloud Edition (CE)BIG-IP Virtual Edition (VE) is one of F5’s software services platforms and enables customers to leverage BIG-IP services in virtualized and cloud-based environments. VE is consumable in many performance throughput offerings and integrates into automation and orchestration frameworks such as Ansible, Puppet, Terraform, OpenShift, and Cloud Foundry to align with modern application deployments as part of a CI/CD pipeline. BIG-IP Cloud Edition (CE) is another one of our software services offerings that enables customers to leverage BIG-IP services in virtualized and cloud-based environments on a per-application basis which is particularly effective for public cloud deployments. CE provides right-sized packaging and pricing for enterprises that want to deploy dedicated BIG-IP services to support individual applications. NGINXUnder the NGINX brand we offer:•NGINX Plus, an all-in-one load balancer, web server, content cache, and API gateway for modern applications.•NGINX Controller, which provides centralized monitoring and management for NGINX Plus.We believe the combined forces of F5 and NGINX will enable multi-cloud application services across a broader range of environments than either company could have addressed independently, providing the ease-of-use and flexibility developers require while also delivering the scale, security, reliability, and enterprise readiness network operations teams demand.F5 Cloud ServicesOn March 27, 2019, we introduced F5 Cloud Services, our SaaS platform. F5 Cloud Services is a portfolio of enterprise-grade offerings designed to support modern cloud application delivery and security use cases for cloud-native applications, microservices, and container-based environments. Built from the ground up to support DevOps workflows for modern application teams, F5 Cloud Services can be consumed as a utility through a pay-as-you-go model, offering predictable pricing 6Table of Contentsand flexibility. Services are easily provisioned and configured within minutes via a web interface, or via a complete suite of declarative APIs.Cloud-based Managed ServicesF5 Silverline Managed ServicesSilverline is a cloud-based, managed application services platform. Current offerings include Silverline Web Application Firewall, Silverline DDoS Protection, and Silverline Threat Intelligence Services. These services provide enterprise and service provider customers with F5’s proven security technologies coupled with world-class security professionals. Silverline’s Security Operation Center experts set up, manage, and support each customer's application services as an extension to the customer’s staff.Depending on the level of protection required, customers can route traffic through the Silverline cloud-based platform 24/7 or only when an attack is detected. Silverline Managed Services also provides an affordable and straightforward deployment alternative for customers who want to minimize the upfront costs and expense of maintaining on-premises solutions. For large enterprises, subscribing to Silverline Managed Services in conjunction with our on-premises DDoS Hybrid Defender and Advanced WAF can provide the first line of defense against attacks, and prevent them from having a significant downtime impact on their application or network services.Service Provider SolutionsIn addition to the solutions described above, F5 also offers solutions for fixed and mobile service provider customers to optimize, secure and monetize their networks. These solutions include intelligent traffic management services to classify and manipulate network traffic and migrate successfully from IPv4 to IPv6 at scale; carrier-class network firewall services to mitigate DDoS, IOT and signaling threats; and signaling services for traffic management and security for protocols like Diameter, SIP, and GTP, as well as IoT protocols. All F5 software solutions can be delivered on dedicated F5 hardware and as Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) that can use F5 VNF Manager or other industry solutions to deploy and manage VNF instances. CompetitionAs F5 expands its reach and role into a broader set of multi-cloud application services, the companies that we consider as competitors changes too. In addition to server load balancing, traffic management, and other functions normally associated with application delivery, our suite of application services has expanded our addressable market into security, and policy management, where we compete with a number of companies focused on niche areas of application security. The ability to create customized, programmable services (e.g., using iRules) enables our customers and our partners to design solutions to problems for which there is no off-the-shelf solution. As a result, we believe the traditional definitions of our market do not encompass all of the features, functions, and capabilities of our products, or accurately represent the addressable market for our solutions.Within the more narrowly defined traditional ADC market, several companies sell server load balancing products and capabilities. These include Citrix Systems, Inc., Radware Ltd., and a number of other competitors that have a smaller market presence or limited feature set, such as: A10 Networks, Amazon Web Services, Array Networks, Inc., Barracuda Networks, Inc., HAProxy, Kemp Technologies, Microsoft Azure, and VMware.In application security, we compete with companies that provide web application firewalls, bot detection and mitigation, carrier-grade firewall, carrier-grade NAT, SSL orchestration, access policy management, and DDoS protection. Competitors include A10, Akamai, Cisco, Citrix, Imperva, Juniper, Radware, and Symantec/Blue Coat.The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we compete include form factor, consumption model, ecosystem integrations, features and performance, customer support, brand recognition, scope of distribution and sales channels, and pricing. Some of our competitors have already tried or plan to adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. However, because F5 offers superior performance, broad functionality, and lighter-weight options with NGINX and F5 Cloud Services, coupled with the unique capabilities of our products, we believe that we can and will compete effectively against such pricing policies.Corporate FunctionsCustomer Services and Technical SupportIn connection with our products, we offer a broad range of professional services including consulting, training, installation, maintenance, and other technical support services.We believe that our ability to provide consistent, high-quality customer service and technical support is a key factor in attracting and retaining large enterprise and service provider customers. Accordingly, we offer a broad range of support services 7Table of Contentsthat includes installation, phone and online technical support, hardware repair and replacement, software updates, online tools, consulting, and training services.We provide these services directly to end users and also utilize a multi-tiered support model, leveraging the capabilities of our channel partners. Our technical support staff is strategically located in regional service centers to support our global customer base.Product DevelopmentWe believe our future success depends on our ability to maintain technology leadership by continuing to improve our products and by developing new products to meet the changing needs of our customers and partners. Our engineering organization uses standard processes for the development, documentation, and quality control of services, software, and systems that are designed to meet these goals. These processes include working with our business development and marketing teams, customers, and partners to identify technology innovation opportunities to better meet the evolving needs of our addressable markets.Over 90 percent of our engineers are engaged in software development in eight major locations. The BIG-IP LTM, DNS, and Automation Tool Chain offerings are primarily developed in Seattle, Washington. Development of security products is centered in Tel Aviv, Israel and San Jose, California with our web application firewall and WebSafe/MobileSafe centered in Tel Aviv, and our core firewall (AFM) and identity and access products and technologies developed in San Jose. Policy Enforcement Manager is also developed in San Jose. NGINX products are developed in San Francisco, California; Cork, Ireland; and Moscow, Russia.Our hardware engineering team is located in Spokane, Washington; San Jose, California; and Tel Aviv, Israel.Smaller development sites including Boulder, Colorado; Warsaw, Poland; and Lowell, Massachusetts also support the core development teams in the larger centers. Additionally, we have recently opened a dedicated facility to continue to scale and extend engineering across the portfolio in Hyderabad, India.Members of all our engineering teams collaborate closely with one another to ensure the interoperability and performance of our solutions.We believe that robust and constant innovation is a necessity for F5, so we are also innovating in new ways. For more than a year now, we have had dedicated teams focused on testing new disruptive innovations in technology, business models, or customer segments. We expect innovations resulting from the work of these teams will be complementary to our goal of delivering the broadest and most consistent portfolio of application services across cloud and on-premises environments.During the first quarter of our fiscal 2019, we announced one of the first innovations to come from this program, an open beta of our Aspen Mesh solution. With the shift from monolithic to microservice architectures, a rapidly increasing number of applications are being deployed in container environments. Yet, there is still a need for services that help enterprises monitor, manage, and control microservice-based applications at runtime. Aspen Mesh provides critical enterprise features in a platform built on top of Istio, so organizations can enjoy the benefits of an open source approach without foregoing the features, support, and guarantees needed to power enterprise applications.During that same quarter, we also introduced the customer early access preview of F5 Cloud Services, a software as a service (SaaS) portfolio. F5 Cloud Services provide high-availability, self-service, and fully managed SaaS solutions that are easily provisioned and configured within minutes through an intuitive user interface via declarative APIs. As enterprise-grade offerings, they are designed to support modern deployment scenarios such as cloud-native applications, microservices, and container-based environments. Consumed as a utility through a pay-as-you-go model, F5 Cloud Services offer predictable pricing, flexibility, and the ability to auto-scale to meet application workload demands. They also deliver foundational security capabilities and will offer additional protections through future services that allow companies to configure and automate defenses for multiple attack vectors. Offering F5 capabilities through a SaaS delivery model provides an extensible framework to deliver additional services as needed over time, and throughout an application’s development and production lifecycle.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. F5 holds 320 patents in the United States and has 43 international patents (with applications pending for various aspects of our technology). Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our principal products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use trade secrets or other information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Any issued patent may not preserve our proprietary position, and competitors or others may develop technologies similar to or superior to our technology. Our failure to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.8Table of ContentsIn addition to our own proprietary software, we incorporate software licensed from several third-party sources into our products. These are generally term licenses which may renew annually and that generally provide for certain rights and licenses to support our customers post termination. While we may not be able to renew all of these licenses in the future, we believe that alternative technologies for these licenses are available both domestically and internationally.During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019, 2018 and 2017, we had research and product development expenses of $408.1 million, $366.1 million, and $350.4 million, respectively.Sales and MarketingOur customers include a wide variety of enterprises and service providers among Fortune 1000 and Business Week Global 1000 companies, including those in technology, telecommunications, financial services, transportation, education, manufacturing, healthcare, and government. In fiscal year 2019, sales outside of the Americas represented 44.5% of our net revenues. Refer to Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our revenues by geographic area.SalesWe sell our products and services to large enterprise customers and service providers through a variety of channels. Our sales teams sell our products and services directly to major accounts and work closely with our channel partners including distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), managed service providers (MSPs), and systems integrators.F5 sales teams. Our inside sales team generates and qualifies leads and helps manage accounts by serving as a liaison between the field and internal corporate resources. Our field sales personnel are located in major cities in three sales regions: the Americas (primarily the United States); Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and the Asia Pacific region (APAC). Field sales personnel work closely with our channel partners to sell our products and services to their customers. We reward partners that identify new business and provide sales expertise for our portfolio of products and solutions through various incentive programs. Our major account team sells our products and services directly to customers, primarily large enterprises. Systems engineers, with deep technical domain expertise, support our regional sales account managers and channel partners providing pre-sale technical solution engineering and support, as needed.Distributors, VARs, and MSP