 Concerning the issue of ethics and AI I think the most important thing to realize is that we have to think about our own ethics our own principles and the values that we really care about. And when I talk about we it is really something that needs to be decided and thought about at society level. It's our policy makers users in general and public in general it's not something which we can leave up to the developers to decide for us. We really need to take into account and think about what's important think about our principles and make decisions based on that. Ethics is not enough. We want systems to be lawful and ethics and law don't go together all the time so we need to think about what it means to be ethical and lawful at the same time but we also want systems to be reliable. We want to be sure that the system does what it's supposed to that it doesn't crash or stop half way. So for ethics we need law and reliability but in a sense we also want systems to be beneficial. So when we talk about responsible AI we refer to all these concepts. One part is awereness and education ensuring that all of us researchers or the public small kids, older people or policy makers for the large part understand what AI is and what it can do and not do and of course not all of us will be able to understand all the details but we also don't all understand exactly how car motors or engines work. It is very easy to accept systems as they are because we don't know better but we need to really make people to know better so you can demand better systems. We have those examples with fair trade products and free range eggs and organic food. It's something we didn't think about before but that now more and more people are demanding to have this choice. And we need to have the same level of awareness and education which will make people ask for ethical and responsible types of AI. We also need to make sure that the development teams are diverse enough. If they are only young males it's not a malicious thing but its's just that people are different. If we have a team which includes women and men and old and young people of different cultural and national backgrounds we will by necessity and by definition have different choices. So participation is important to consider to consider the transparency of what we are doing and make clear which choices have been done and not. 