 Good day, everyone. Thank you all for finding time in Visiting today's webinar. My name is Shiela and I'm from Qualitia. Qualitia is a global and I.T training company From Canada with the help of our global partners. We provide ID services solutions and training to individuals and businesses Like yourself. We also have a lot of free content and Videos in our website and Youtube channel. And today our session is all about exam AI 900 focuses on Microsoft Azure artificial intelligence fundamentals One day workshop. This course introduces fundamental concepts related To artificial intelligence and the services in Microsoft Azure that Can be used to create Artificial intelligence solutions. This Course is not designed to teach students to become professionals data Scientists or software developers. But rather, To build awareness of common Artificial intelligence workloads and the ability To identify Azure services to support them. The course is designed as a blended learning experience that combines Instructor-led training with online materials and Microsoft Learn platform. The hands-on exercises in the course are based on learn modules, And students are encouraged to use the content online as reference materials to Reinforce what they learn in the class and to Explore topics in more depth. The prerequisite is the familiarity with computers and using a web Browser. The Azure Artificial intelligence fundamental course is Designed for anyone interested in learning about the types Of solution Artificial intelligence makes possible and the services on Microsoft Azure that you can use to create them. You don't need to have any experience of using Microsoft Azure before taking this Course. But a basic level of familiarity with Computer technology and the internet is assumed some of the Concepts covered in the course require a basic Understanding of mathematics, such as the ability to interpret Torts. The course includes hands-on activities that involve working with Data, and running codes so knowledge of Fundamental programming principles will be helpful. So, what are the skills measured? First, describe Artificial intelligence Workloads and considerations, (20) 15 to 20 describe fundamental Principles of Machine, learning on Azure 30 to 35 percent, Describe features of computer vision workloads on Azure (20) 15 to 20 percent, describe features of natural language processing or NLP, workloads in Azure that's (20) 15 to 20 percent, Describe features of conversational Artificial intelligence workloads on azure 15 to 20 percent. After completing this course, students will be able to First, describe Artificial intelligence workloads and considerations Also, describe fundamental principles of Machine-learning on Azure, Next, describe features of computer vision workloads on Azure, Describe features of natural language processing NLP workloads and Azure, and last but not the least, described Features of conversational artificial intelligence workloads on Azure. For the module 1, introduction of Artificial intelligence in this module, You'll learn about common uses of Artificial intelligence and the Different types of workload associated with it you'll then explore Considerations and principles for responsible Artificial intelligence development. In this module, you will learn about Artificial intelligence in Microsoft Azure. So, the lesson includes Artificial intelligence in Azure, responsible artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is a powerful tool that can be used to greatly benefit The world. However, like any tool, it must be used Responsibly... How are we gonna do that? First, fairness, all systems should treat all People with fairness, reliability and safety, AI-based Software application development must be subjected to rigorous testing and Deployment, management processes to ensure that they Work as expected before release. Next, privacy and security AI systems Should be secure and respect privacy inclusiveness artificial Intelligence System should should empower everyone and engage people. Transparency Users should be made fully aware of the purpose of the system, How it works, and what limitations maybe expected, Accountability designers and developers of Artificial intelligence should be... Based solutions should work with within A framework of governance and organizational principles that ensure The solution meets ethical and legal standards that are Clearly defined. After completing this module, students Will be able to describe Artificial intelligence workloads And considerations. Module 2, Machine learning. Machine learning is the foundation of modern Artificial intelligence solutions. In this module, you learn about some fundamental Machine learning concepts And how to use the Azure machine learning service To create and publish machine learning models. In this module, you will learn about automated machine learning capability In Microsoft Azure machine learning. So, the lessons includes introduction to Machine learning, Azure mission machine learning it is a Cloud-based service that helps simplify some of the tasks and reduce the time it Takes to prepare data, train a model and deploy a predictive Service, and the rest of this unit.You'll explore Azure machine learning and in particular it's automated machine learning Capability. After completing this module, students Will be able to describe fundamental principles Of Machine learning on Azure. For module 3, computer vision. Computer vision is the area of Artificial intelligence that deals with understanding The word visually, through images video files, and cameras. So in this Modules, you'll explore multiple computer vision techniques and Services. In this module, you will understand Computer vision concepts. You also learn about computer vision Cognitive service in Microsoft Azure. Once again, the la this lesson should Include computer vision concepts, computer vision in Azure in Microsoft Azure the computer vision cognitive services User pretend models to analyze images enabling software and developers to Easily build application, that can interpret an image and suggest An appropriate caption suggest relevant tags that could be used To index an image, categorize an image, identify objects in An image, detect faces in people and image, and Recognize celebrities and landmarks in an image. Also, Should be able to read tags in an image. After completing this module, students Will be able to describe features of computer vision workloads On Azure. For module 4, natural language processing. This module, describes scenarios for Artificial intelligence solutions that can process Written and spoken language. You learn about Azure services it can be used to build solutions That analyze text recognize and synthesize speech, Translate between languages and interpret commands. In this module, you will learn about text analytics service Which is a Cloud-based service for natural language processing like Sentiment analysis and language detection. You will also learn about speech recognition, Speech synthesis, and automated translation capabilities And Artificial intelligence solution. The text analytics service is a Cloud-based service that provides advanced natural language processing Over raw text for sentimental analysis. keyphrase extraction name entity Recognition and language detection, speech Recognition is the ability to detect and interpret Spoken input. While speech synthesis is the ability To generate spoken output. Translate between languages, automated Translation capabilities in artificial intelligence solution Enables closer collaboration by removing language barriers... After completing this module, students will be able to describe features for Of natural language processing also known as NLP Workloads on Azure. Now for module 5, conversational artificial intelligence. Conversational artificial intelligence enables users to engage In a dialogue with an AI agent or Bot through communication channels such as Email, web chat, interfaces, social media, and Others. This module, describes some basic Principles for working with Bots and allows you to create a bot that can Responsibly intelligently to user Questions. In this module, you will understand conversational AI concepts. You will also learn conversational Artificial intelligence in Azure. So, once again, this lesson includes conversational AI concepts. Conversational AI and Azure conversationals typically take The form of messages exchanged in turns. And one of the most common kinds of Conversational exchange is a question followed by an answer. After completing this module, students will be able to describe Features of Conversational Artificial intelligence workloads on Azure. I hope you have learned a lot from today's session. You can follow us on our social media pages such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and subscribe to our Youtube channel. You can also visit our website at www.qualitia.com Thank you, all for watching and see you Next time. 