 I'm in conversation at Microsoft with Lila Tretikov; she is the corporate vice President of AI perception and Mixed Reality. It's very exciting for me to meet someone like you here. Women in AI, women in technology women in large companies, changing the world. It is an exciting time and I would like for us to have a little bit of a dialogue really on what got you here? Well thank you for having me first of all and as excited to be talking to you having started this amazing company and taking to where we are together today. You know I really believe that we are at the front end of a major change that's going to change how we live, how we work in many ways who we are as a species. I love to talk about this change similar to Renaissance you know the kind of changes we went through as a society so that's why I'm here. I think there are only a very few places that are kind of at the epicenter that get to shape that future yeah and I think we have both the privilege and the responsibility. I grew up with both art and science as part of my upbringing. Mother was a filmmaker and an artist my father is a scientist and mathematician, could never decide what the hell, how to combine a tune and what to do with them and through our... Best of both worlds! Yeah you could say that if you say that, but it is the the two worlds that fundamentally treated differently as part of your education and even as part of my work and I believe that they are much closer than we believe. In fact I believe that artist is science and science is art so, I ended up doing both artificial intelligence and visual art and school and my first the first company that I started emerged from me observing actually scientists and visually representing the data for them. This was back when we were sequencing the human genome and the scientists for the first time had to deal with the alphabet soup the size of a huge magnitude and the way it turns out to really understand it is to understand it visually. And what are your thoughts how do you see it, how do you see AI for example and mix reality which is some of the work that you do here, how will it directly impact businesses worldwide? Well artificial intelligence is probably one of the largest largest trends and large changes that they were going to see and come especially combined with mixed reality it's it's really going to be disruptive. We talked about digital transformation before. Now we really need to be talking about intelligence and reality transformation, which will change of course both the nature of our work but also nature of our lives. I am a positive futurist and I believe that my role is really to make sure that we shape the technology in a way that fundamentally is good for the humans, good for the planet, good for the way that we live and that's why I love this work In fact, you know, within our technology groups we embed an ethics and society team in order to think through those problems before we even build build the technology to solve them because oftentimes you can create massive positive outcome short term then very negative outcome longer term so thinking through these problems early on understanding the side effects understanding both the potential but also the challenges that can come with it is really important now. The consciousness and the purposeful implementation of technology with an ethical glass or an ethical mind frame it's very important. I do believe that technology has one purpose and that's human enablement and so bringing that humanity to every aspect of technology how it's made what its purpose is how it reacts or is used in the world is very important. As I think about the last century and amazing technologies we've built and also what are those technologies have gotten us, I feel that we could have done much better thinking them through. You know the internal combustion engine was a phenomenal invention and really revolutionized the world and yeah that left us here with the climate problem. You know if we consider that you know it's just a carbon molecule now if we considered what happens when you burn fossil fuels you could probably predict that we would end up and I think we have the responsibility and actually I think our children are asking us what are we going to do about the problems of today and how the things that we build today will improve tomorrow. So, I think it's really important for us to think about these technologies that we're building, especially AI especially AMR, because there's such powerful technologies. As agents of good and how we can use them to solve problems that exist today, how can we use them to predict outcomes and ensure that the positive outcomes are achieved. And whether they were looking at the problem of climate change or whether we're looking at a problem of medical research or a transformation of of our planet whether it's a loss of language or it is a loss of diversity and on the biome all of these problems can be modeled and understood and actually improved. For languages in particular, AI can actually preserve the language diversity that exists today while we still can. So those are the kind of things I think about and I think it's really important that we put those problems in front of us. That's very inspiring to hear and I totally agree with you; I think having the mindfulness and the consciousness again to take a problem or a solution and look at it holistically across the board and look at it for a more long-term perspective is key to some of these technologies and making sure we do it better than we have in the past. So thank you for, that that's very inspiring Thank you as well.  