 Hi there! My name is Tina Eskridge, I'm Senior Director for Cloud for Everyone at Microsoft. That means I am responsible for our inclusion marketing and product strategy for all of our cloud products and platforms, and I'm super, super, super excited to be here today with Neeti from Automation Anywhere. Very nice to have you with me Tina. Nice to be here. Tell us a little bit about Cloud for Everyone. Sure, so Cloud for Everyone is our inclusion marketing and product strategy that encompasses all of our cloud. So whether that is Azure, M365 or D365, so it's our approach to making sure that when we talk about wanting to empower each and every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more, it's our approach to figuring out who that everyone is and what barriers do they have in reaching their potential and using our products. So what are your key points that you're going to be working on? First and foremost I'll be looking at how do we empower African American female led startups, because that is the largest growth category of startups in the country right now. So I'm looking at ways that we enable them, whether that's you know skilling and training, using Azure fundamentals whether that's introducing them to Power Platforms, so there's a lot of different ways in which we want to reach that audience. The other thing that I'm focused on is, you know, getting insights and again truly understanding the audiences that we serve. You know I'm really intentional about like driving that action through data and insights. What are your thoughts on using AI technologies for good? I think that you know we have a responsibility to remove bias through AI, right? You know, when I think about Cloud For Everyone or AI For Everyone I think we have a responsibility to make sure that we bring everyone along on the transformation. That's very good to hear because a lot of the conversation around RPA and our technology also is how can we democratize technology and the usage of technology across all segments of society, all segments of industry, all segments geographically and so forth. The reality is there's a tons of potential that comes along with that automation and so you know my my job is to make sure that I'm thinking about that potential and making sure people understand where they fit in that that transformation because there there's loads and loads and loads of other things that we can do as a result and we'll be able to achieve more as a result of that automation. Absolutely and just like Microsoft have created a whole industry and ecosystem and affected so many other industries and verticals across the world in the last many decades, just like that hopefully, automation will also unleash a whole plethora of you know products and services and jobs. I love technology and as an african-american woman one of the things that I do know is that you know as a trend or if you look at consumer data african-americans tend to be trailblazers when it comes to using technology and so I like to think of myself as someone who's an advocate for making sure technology loves us as much as we love it so I'm very proud to work at Microsoft at a time like this where there's more and more diversity. I think that's an awesome thing and I'm happy to be a part of that that stepping stone for the future. That's excellent. 