 Welcome to another MedCram COVID-19 update. And  we talked about the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine last   time; this time we're going to talk about  the Moderna vaccine. Cases are still going   up in the United States, and the daily deaths  are increasing in the United States as well.  And in terms of total cases per million population, the top states are North Dakota, South Dakota,   and Iowa, so if there ever was a time to  get a vaccine out, now is the time. So let's   talk about this new Moderna mRNA vaccine and  some of the recent results that have come out. We talked about the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine last  time and I'm going to just sort of put up some   notables about that vaccine so we can compare it  to the Moderna vaccine. So one thing that's notable   is that at 25 degrees Fahrenheit, the Moderna  vaccine can actually last up to one month,   but at that same temperature at 25 degrees  Fahrenheit, which of course is below freezing,   the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine lasts for only about  five days. However, if you cool the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine down to negative 94 degrees Fahrenheit,  it can actually be stored for up to six months.   Of course it's difficult to get those type  of refrigeration units. They are working on   that. So the other difference that we see between  these two vaccines is whereas the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is on day 1 and then another injection  on day 22, the Moderna vaccine is on day 1 and   it's a little bit later; it's actually on day 29.  So it's an additional week and when they asked   the participants to let them know after which  date they developed symptoms in the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, it was seven days after the last  injection, whereas in the Moderna it was 14 days. Now as you'll recall the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine  results, and these were preliminary results that   were released by the company and we haven't  gotten the peer review data on this as yet ,  but they said and they quoted about a 90 percent effective rate, and recently we also got data   being reported by Moderna -- again not peer-reviewed,  not published as yet -- but they are claiming a 94.5   effective rate, and while we haven't gotten a  lot of detailed information from Pfizer-BioNTech, we actually have gotten some granular data from  Moderna. Let's talk about that at this point. So   in the study, there was about 30,000 people and  just like the Pfizer-BioNTech study there was   racial diversity to the effect that there was  around 11,000 people from communities of color. In addition to that, there was also 7,000  subjects that were 65 years and older,   and there were 5,000 subjects that were less than  the age of 65 that had comorbidities, and so what   they did is they enrolled 30,000 subjects and, of  course, half of these got placebo and half of these   got the one, two injection of the vaccine. And  let's remind people again that this vaccine works   in a very similar fashion as does the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in that it is a mRNA vaccine, which means that this mRNA, which is encapsulated  in a lipid bilayer is injected into the body. It   merges with specific cells and the messenger RNA  is released into the cytoplasm, not the nucleus, and while it is there in the cytoplasm, it will  interact with ribosomes and the mRNA will be   translated into proteins and it's these proteins  that are immunogenic and will cause antibodies to   form, as well as other diverse immunogenic  responses, such as a T cell response, etc.   So when they randomized these 30,000 subjects  to either the vaccine or placebo, they did it on   day number 1, they did it on day number 29, and  they waited the 14 days and then asked them to   call in if they had symptoms of COVID-19. Again,  we're looking for the actual disease pattern of   COVID-19. It was at that point that they were  tested and what they did was they waited for   95 people to become positive with COVID-19. Now,  that may sound like a small amount, but remember   if the overall infection rate in a population is  about one percent, then it's not unreasonable to   believe that in 30,000 people that only about 300  people would actually become infected. So that 95   is a good place to do the interim analysis. So  at this point when they got the 95 subjects,   the data monitoring board unblinded their  side to see which patients got the placebo   and which ones got the vaccine, so they could  make a determination about the efficacy.   This is an independent data monitoring board and,  of course, this is not under the control of Moderna. Well what they found when they looked at those 95  cases is that, in fact, 90 of those got the placebo   and only five of those got the actual vaccine. What is even more interesting, and what we don't   have data from the Pfizer-BioNTech people,  is that they actually had no severe cases   in their cohort, whereas in the moderna cohort  they did have severe cases, but all 11 of those   severe cases were in the placebo group. So this  is encouraging news, because it seems to show   that the Moderna vaccine, number one, is 94.5  percent effective, and I don't know if that is   statistically significantly different than the  90 percent here. So we don't know that Moderna   is necessarily better than the Pfizer-BioNTech in terms of efficacy, but what we do see here   is that it seems to be able to prevent severe  COVID-19. What we don't know for either of these   vaccines is whether or not these vaccines actually  prevent infection of the virus, because here the   end point was looking at symptoms of COVID-19.  It would be interesting to see whether or not   this vaccine actually causes a sterilization of  the infection, and why that would be important   is that if, in fact, this vaccine could actually  prevent an infection with SARS-CoV-2, if it was   effective at doing that, then you would see a drop  in the transmissibility of this virus. It wouldn't   be able to spread to other people, whereas if there  was no effect on infectivity and only an effect   on preventing the symptoms or COVID-19, then yes it would drop hospitalizations dramatically, but   as we know, asymptomatic transmission of the virus  is a big way that the virus is being transmitted   currently, and it would be really interesting  to know whether or not this vaccine could   actually prevent that, too. So in terms of  safety, looking at both the Pfizer-BioNTech and the Moderna vaccine candidates, the data  monitoring committee has said that they have not   seen any serious safety concerns with the Pfizer-BioNTech  candidate, and the data safety monitoring   board for Moderna has also said that there was  no significant safety concerns. Now with Pfizer, they have said that they're going to be releasing  more specific data on safety in the coming weeks. Now Moderna has given us a little bit more.  granular data, and you should look that up   And in looking over the side effects, they were  mostly mild to moderate, they were short-lived, and they were the type of side effects that you  would expect to see with any kind of vaccine, even a flu vaccine, such as fatigue, myalgias,  arthralgias, headache, pain and redness at the site. So you can see the differences here very clearly. The similarities are also very clear. Both of these   vaccines seem to prevent disease very effectively, however, both are still in question about whether   or not they prevent infection. In both you require  two vaccine shots; in both of these vaccines   there seems to be a good randomization and also  representation from communities of color. There   also seems to be a lack of severe side effects  that are concerning, but of course, because they've   only been around for a few months, we don't have  long-term safety data on either of these vaccines. And remember we also don't know how long this  type of effect from the vaccine is going to last. And of course the other big similarity between  these two -- the Pfizer-BioNTech and the Moderna -- is that they are mRNA vaccines and as it says  here on the Moderna website, mRNA is a temporary   set of instructions for cells to make a protein, and mRNA is made normally using DNA, but in this   case, the vaccine itself contains messenger RNA,  and that of course makes the proteins, which are   the source of the immunogenic response in the body  and causes a number of immune responses, including   antibodies. And here is how Moderna depicts its  vaccine. As you can see here, the messenger RNA is   packaged and there is a five prime region which  keeps it from being broken down in the cytoplasm. And there's also a three prime region and a poly  A tail here at the end, which also does something   similar. Next time we're going to look at the other  two vaccines that are coming up and that includes   the one from Johnson & Johnson, and also from  AstraZeneca and Oxford, and those are not messenger   RNA vaccines, but actually something rather  different, which we'll take a look at next time. Meanwhile while all this is happening, here on  the west coast we're starting to see stricter   rules once again being imposed. Once again there  is going to be a restriction on indoor dining   and also religious meetings inside and gyms,  etc. There's also a travel restriction. As you   can see here, on Friday, Newsom and the governors  of Oregon and Washington issued a travel advisory   urging their residents to avoid non-essential  travel and to quarantine for two weeks after   arriving on the west coast from another state  or country. In Oregon, Governor Kate Brown also   announced a two-week freeze to limit restaurants  to offering only takeout food and close gyms. She said that the travel advisory would become  a requirement if cases remain at current levels. And Washington's Governor, Jay  Inslee, has ordered gyms, bowling   alleys, movie theaters, museums, and  zoos to shut down indoor operations. the reason for limiting these things, of course,  is to reduce the incidence of hospitalizations, which brings us to another interesting article  in JAMA network, titled "Outcomes for Out-of-   Hospital Cardiac Arrest in the United States  During the Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic," and this was published on November 14, 2020. And  essentially, what they found was that during out-of-   hospital cardiac arrest, the return of spontaneous  circulation in those patients was 18 percent lower overall   than before the pandemic. They also found that  rates of survival to discharge were 17 percent   lower, primarily in communities with moderate to  high COVID-19 mortality, an incidence of out of   hospital cardiac arrest was higher, but largely  in communities with high COVID-19 mortality. Here you can see the results that were stratified  by county level coronavirus disease in 2019, and   in the overall category, you can see  here very clearly that there was 69.7   incidence of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest per  1 million residents in 2020. That went up to 88.5   per 1 million residents, and as you can see here, as  the county level COVID-19 mortality rate increased, so did the difference between 2019 and 2020 for  the most part and that was all statistically   significant, and the two theories behind this,  why this was, in other words, is number one: many people may have been very concerned about  going to the hospital, because there were a lot   of COVID-19 patients there, and therefore their  disease manifested itself much further along and   therefore it was much more difficult to convert  those patients back into a spontaneous rhythm   with spontaneous circulation, therefore there was  a higher out-of-hospital cardiac arrest incidence, but another theory emerged and is detailed in this  article, which we'll give you the link to, and that   is that a number of the protocols that were  initially started on these patients when EMS and   first responders would go out. They modified it in  a way so that there was perhaps less intervention   in favor of protecting the first responders  more from developing an infection with SARS-CoV-2   They said in the study, this raises  the possibility of whether protocols   that were rapidly put into place following the  beginning of the pandemic could have influenced   patients likelihood of achieving sustained  risk or return of spontaneous circulation.   For instance, the U.S Centers for Disease Control  and Prevention and the American Heart Association   each established interim guidelines for EMS  and its professionals during the pandemic, which   included screening 9-1-1 calls for likelihood  of COVID-19 infection, limiting the number of EMS   personnel during initial response, causing critical  chest compressions during aerosolizing procedures   such as intubation, limited bag mask ventilation  when done without specialized filtration, and not   transporting patients to hospitals without  ROSC, or return of spontaneous circulation.   Many of these recommendations are believed  to be essential for protecting front-line   health care workers from unnecessary exposure in  communities severely affected by COVID-19 pandemic, but may also decrease the likelihood of  a successful resuscitation. So I thought   this was an interesting article, because it  shows the collateral damage of a pandemic. Tell me what your thoughts are below, and thank  you for joining us. Don't forget to check us out on MedCram.com. 