 Lauren Apicella: Alright, well, I think we can go ahead and get started. Everybody who's out there. Thank you so much for your patience and Lauren Apicella: I hope you got to enjoy how we set up for panels. Before we broadcast Lauren Apicella: But thank you all so much and welcome back to McDonough School of Business 2020 virtual reunion kickoff. Lauren Apicella: We are so glad to have you with us. Thank you for taking the time out of your day to connect virtually with your classmates and with Georgetown McDonough. Lauren Apicella: For those of you who are just joining my name is Lauren Apicella and I lead the Alumni Relations efforts here at Georgetown McDonough. Lauren Apicella: I will be facilitating today's panel. And before we get started, I do want to share a few tips and reminders for you all. Lauren Apicella: And this panel is on Big data, Small data and COVID 19 and it is being recorded. Lauren Apicella: The recording of this panel will be made available on our alumni events page as well as the Georgetown McDonough YouTube channel in the next few days. Lauren Apicella: You will receive a link to this recording and in follow-up email which will also contain a survey for you to take, information on upcoming events, and more ways to stay connected to Georgetown McDonough. Lauren Apicella: Our panelists will take questions throughout the webinar, please send in your questions as you have them using the Q&A function at the bottom of the zoom screen. Lauren Apicella: And if you're having any technical difficulties or other issues, please just submit those concerns to me via the Q&A function at the bottom of the screen and we can work to fix them. Lauren Apicella: And I know I shared this earlier during our state of the school address, but I think it deserves another mention Lauren Apicella: Again, we are so, so, so grateful for our reunion committee volunteers, they helped us pivot from an in-person reunion weekend. Lauren Apicella: To today's virtual reunion kickoff, which will lead into an even bigger and better reunion next October. Lauren Apicella: I also need to thank my teammate Ashleigh Shay Alumni Relations program coordinator for helping put together everything today. It's been wonderful. And we really hope that you enjoyed this virtual celebration. Lauren Apicella: Now, I'm pleased to introduce Professor Jose Luis Guererro Cusumano Associate Professor of Operations and Information Management here at Georgetown McDonough. Lauren Apicella: To lead our faculty and alumni panel, Big data, Small data, and COVID-19 with him today, Aishah Iqbal MBA’06. And Jocelyn Byrne Houle MBA’98. Thank you guys so much Hoya Saxa Jose Guerrero: You guys for me. I'm Professor Guererro Cusumano as you could imagine in this case because my photograph is there. Jose Guerrero: It is such a pleasure to be in this panel, especially with two incredible alumni Jocelyn and Aishah. Jose Guerrero: One of the things we want to talk today is a very relaxed way, is talking about small data, big data and COVID and also the experiences of these two alumni. Jose Guerrero: I want to thank Jocelyn. Aishah, I know that everybody's busy as you are in your offices and most probably at home. Jose Guerrero: Very busy and today is Friday, is the end of the day, the only thing I could tell you we have a beautiful day here and let me begin with the first alumna Jocelyn. Could you introduce yourself please Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Yes. Hello. Thank you all for inviting me to participate. I've been excited about it all day. It's something to look forward to, at the end of the week. My name is Jocelyn Byrne Houle I’m class of 1998 Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Today I'm an operating partner for Capital One growth ventures, which is a small investment arm of Capital One. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: What we do is look for start-ups that can advance the innovation target state for Capital One and then help those startups to be successful. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: My background before Capital One, I typically tell people, and one of the few people that you'll meet who has only worked for monopolies are startups. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Before Capital One. I only worked, I had to start-ups of my own one successful one less so. And then I've also worked for some really large scale organizations like Microsoft, Fannie Mae Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Both organizations work in complex software environments, complex data environments, and highly regulated environments. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: What I do now is a little different from most of my career, I’ve worked in technical product management, which over the last few years has been almost entirely centered on data and data infrastructure for analytics. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I’m a Georgetown graduate, as well as a Wellesley graduate and I'm really excited to participate in today's discussion. Jose Guerrero: Jocelyn. Thank you so much for being here. Let's go to the next alumni Aishah Aishah Iqbal: Hi, everyone. Thank you again for having me here. I'm so excited to be here especially speaking with Professor and being part of this panel with Jocelyn. Aishah Iqbal: My name is Aishah Iqbal, first and foremost, I'm a mom to a rambunctious four year old girl who thankfully will not be popping into the office while I'm on this video call so Aishah Iqbal: Today, I am a VP of analytics at Essence Global. It is a advertising agency here in the Bay Area, California, famous for being Google's only digital advertising agency for more than a decade now. Aishah Iqbal: I am, I represent the analytics program from Essence to Google. So that's, that's my day to day role. My background. Aishah Iqbal: I've been in the advertising space, specifically in Analytics for more than a decade now. Aishah Iqbal: And I've served in roles from leading analytics team, from being a marketing analyst, to leading analytics teams to even leading portfolio of accounts. Aishah Iqbal: From everything from media buying to also analyzing performance. I've spent some time on the startup side. Aishah Iqbal: I feel like life here in the Bay Area isn't complete until you spend some time working at a startup. I've gone through the acquisition process as well and that, one of the most exciting things I've gone through. it's being acquired and then being part of that parent company. Aishah Iqbal: And that was mostly on the product side. So again, part of the advertising digital advertising landscape. Aishah Iqbal: But that was the furthest that I moved away from Analytics. Aishah Iqbal: And so everything in my career has led me to be in this role that I'm in right now, which essentially is a client service role. So I help Aishah Iqbal: People understand each other. I help people connect information while being grounded in analytics. Aishah Iqbal: I am the class of 2006 from Georgetown and Professor I actually had you for a stats class and it was, it was amazing. And so, yeah, I like the full circle of coming back here and being able to give back. Jose Guerrero: Well, let me introduce myself briefly. I am Professor Guerrero Cusumano just to give you an idea, and my training or regional was in economics and statistics and I have a PhD in engineering. Jose Guerrero: And believe it or not, this is the third the 32nd year in Georgetown University. So I have the pleasure of meeting Many of you guys. Jose Guerrero: And what I'm doing at the moment is I'm teaching different electives. The electives that I'm teaching right now is financial econometric big data and small data. Jose Guerrero: But come on, in 32 years you could develop many electives. I developed 17 of them. Jose Guerrero: Last year I was working in two projects and two books. One of them is responsible organization in the global context and the second one was women in STEM, especially women in engineering. Jose Guerrero: We will touch later on. What happened with COVID and which way COVID is influencing negatively in women. Jose Guerrero: I put in all the PowerPoints source, I wonder if you could see that says data united nation.org agenda tracker. Jose Guerrero: And whenever you have the chance. And whenever you have the PowerPoints. Jose Guerrero: It would be great if you could just keep on looking at that and to see what is happening in the world, of course, in order to prepare this webinar, you guys, I need to know my audience. Jose Guerrero: I need to do some data mining. So one of the things that I learned I was able to get information about you. For example, though the work country, where do you work? Jose Guerrero: And you can see very clearly. Most of the people who are attending, who registered were Americans but I still have people, other countries. Jose Guerrero: This is useful information for me because one of the things that I want to do when I talk about COVID is talk about what happened in other parts of the world, of course, because I love data. Jose Guerrero: I was going through other information. For example, I discovered there are nine people whose name is David and four Jennifer’s Jose Guerrero: Very nice. Jennifer, a very nice, David. But that's sort of information is not useful for me in order to say something about the COVID. There's no relationship between your name and COVID, just in case. Jose Guerrero: I want to define something. This is very important because analytics is everywhere. Jose Guerrero: So I'm going to define analytics in an ample sense, analytics refers to our ability to collect, analyze, and use good structured and unstructured data. Jose Guerrero: Data and also videos, text mining to generate insight that inform factory decision making. It's a long definition, it is a general definition. Jose Guerrero: So in business, business analytic is very interesting applied to business, the link that you have there is because we have a wonderful, we are launching, we have launched a wonderful masters of analytics at Georgetown but I’m going to talk about that later on. Jose Guerrero: So information is fundamental. And one of the problems that we have. We are flooded with information and sometimes we don't know if the information is credible or not. Jose Guerrero: I have been lecturing about this COVID for many months since January, when I was working with my students in Jose Guerrero: A small data and big data, just to give you an idea, this is historical, February 18th 2020, showing the number of papers published about COVID. Jose Guerrero: I don't know if you could see there are two colors. The one there in white, a peer review. In other words, there is a group of people observing what the people did and being critical about that. Jose Guerrero: But in that particular moment in time, given there was so much need of information. Many of them were not peer reviewed, some of them were published and some of them will withdraw from publishing that was a problem. Jose Guerrero: Every paper that was published, it was reported in the media. Jose Guerrero: You know, the media is wonderful because gives us information. But you have to be very careful with respect to the information you receive some of these papers, perhaps will never be published. Jose Guerrero: Or perhaps they had many errors associated, one of the big problems that we have in COVID is the truth of the information, of the accuracy of the information. Some of the papers are wonderful. Jose Guerrero: For example, these two papers that you have here as an example, talks about the relation to get the number of cases and COVID. Jose Guerrero: The paper to the left says when the temperature increases and the humidity increases, you're going to have more COVID cases, the paper to the left has the contrary. Jose Guerrero: So it's not that they're contradicting each other. If you look where they occur. There were different circumstances in Australia. Jose Guerrero: In Australia, that was the southern hemisphere, you know, the winter here we were in the summer. Jose Guerrero: So one of the things that we're learning right now that you have to be very careful with the information that you read, I will try to slow down because I'm getting excited with so much data here. Jose Guerrero: But let's be realistic. In this particular case COVID is causing great consternation and great preoccupation. Jose Guerrero: This is an information from Ipsos. Ipsos is a consulting company. And the question that they want to sell this word, where is the world this is written august 2020 Jose Guerrero: And the two main issues in the world, taking a sample of 40 countries with tons of people in that says what worries is the world in this particular moment in time is Corona Jose Guerrero: And unemployment and look at poverty. Jose Guerrero: Sometimes we do not talk too much about in which way COVID has increased everything, the poverty and the social inequality in the world, in some Latin American countries. Jose Guerrero: Because COVID, some of the, in some countries have over 40% of the people being declared poor. This is internationally. When we look at Jose Guerrero: America, the situation is similar to this. But let me give you some statistics, you guys most Americans know someone who has COVID Jose Guerrero: 59% of Americans know someone who tested positive for the coronavirus and 23% of Americans know somebody who that who died from coronavirus Jose Guerrero: This is a tremendous situation in which the people have the knowledge in which way the virus is spreading and they try to gather information today, as you know, you may you must have read the news. Jose Guerrero: Amazon reports that over 18,000 of US frontline employees has it. 1.44% so in the mind of everybody. Jose Guerrero: In the scientists and the decision makers in the business of this topic evidentially is everywhere. We asked American in the same way that we asked the world here. What is the main worry, preoccupation. This is from last week. Jose Guerrero: You guys, which are the following Do you feel are the most important issues facing the USA Today. ranked number one ranked number two ranked number three, look at the two first Jose Guerrero: Coronoa virus outbreak and the health economy. Those are the same percentages, just in case I look at the others. Jose Guerrero: One of the problems that we have in analyzing the data that we need specialized methods in order to analyze the pandemic, it's not only the analytics that you have and the expertise that you have Jose Guerrero: But at the same time we tried to figure out in which way we could convey the information and analyze the information. So we're talking about analytics. There are many models, how to predict how to react, how to make decisions. Let me show you an example. This is an example. Jose Guerrero: Of COVID analysts analytics. It has four parts. But at the same time. Look at the methods that we are using. prescriptive analytics, predictive analytics, contributing factor to the pandemic and the spread. So when we look at this, if I look at my left I’m going to see preventive measures and prediction. Jose Guerrero: And the other element is high risk areas and spreaders. The other one is delay identification. What is happening to all the people, which are the contributing factors. Jose Guerrero: Evidently one of these mobility and proximity in which way that people are moving around and spreading around Jose Guerrero: The reason I show you this, because I don't if you could see they have predictive analytics and prescriptive analytics. Jose Guerrero: Predictive Analytics are simple methods to do a prediction. What is going to happen in the future but prescriptive analytics, extremely useful in business because we add decision makers here. Jose Guerrero: Let me give you the definition, prescriptive analytics answer the question, what should be done or what can we do to make it happen. Jose Guerrero: So in other words, it's not only predicting how many cases are what are the potential is what do we do about it. Jose Guerrero: So they are different for different types of analytics. I have different methods I have hundreds of methods that I could use Jose Guerrero: Some of the methods that I put in the ad graph are analysis simulation, complex event processing, neural network, and so on. Jose Guerrero: So imagine in order to tackle the problem, you not only have to have the expertise in epidemiology, but I need to know all the areas that are interactive, especially in business because you know what has happened right now is effective now. Jose Guerrero: Let me give an example between prescriptive analytics and predictive analytics. This is the report of Boris Johnson. Jose Guerrero: I was able to get a copy of a copy of a copy of the presentation, you guys, everything is legal. So in this particular case, they wanted to check positivity. Jose Guerrero: The percentage of people that talk, that took the test or were positive. So when they look at the data. I don't know if you could see it's alarming to see in England. Jose Guerrero: That people who are 17 to 18 or 19-21 the positivity is 12% but when I look at the children there, the younger, I'm sorry, the people who are less than 15 Jose Guerrero: The positive is much less. What I add up to this moment is predictive analytics or do I do prescriptive. Prescriptive which kind of action do I make or what kind of action do I take Jose Guerrero: In this particular case, somebody said one action would be well for the older people that go to the university. You have to put some restrictions. Jose Guerrero: In the lower part that the people that are younger, there is still elementary school, high school, the people could go without any problems. Those are prescriptive methods. If you have the chance. Go to YouTube and read the whole Jose Guerrero: Information. I gave you in this particular case, some ideas. So one of the elements that I want to do is I don't want just to analyze data, I want to make decisions with data. And that's one of the difficulties that I have right now. Jose Guerrero: Because in business. I can make some business decision, but with a pandemic. There are so many people interrelated to each other, they have to make decisions. Jose Guerrero: If you want to go deeper into analytics, evidently, one of the things that we could do is create a model. This is a model for a company called Terra data, but it's very well known in analytics. Jose Guerrero: So what they show us there is to have the data, copy tasks, COVID statistics, patient records, hospital information. Jose Guerrero: And then advanced analytics. I want you to see in this particular case, something that is very important that people are marketing now all the time. Jose Guerrero: Geospatial you know what happened in a space. How is going to spread. How is the idea of classroom. How do you do text analytics. Jose Guerrero: How do you hear what the people are going to say, anyway, evidently this press dynamic this is spread dynamics. Jose Guerrero: So as you could see, in this particular case I need to create a much more complex model, all these models could use in business, because at the same time, if Jose Guerrero: The economy is closing down in which way the closing of a store that has happened all over the world, there are some country that had been in a strict lockdown for six months. Jose Guerrero: As we know very well right now, Europe has this problem in France and England and other places. Another element that is important. This particular case is something that they didn't mention something that I love is artificial intelligence. Jose Guerrero: So in this particular case, this is a map, especially designed. For COVID. Jose Guerrero: This is a model for artificial intelligence using COVID. So when they decided, you know, after analyzing the literature, you have four components. Jose Guerrero: The medical scale, something a little more technical. The molecular scale is society scale and data set and resources. Jose Guerrero: Look at, I want to emphasize number one. Now when I say number one. Jose Guerrero: medical imaging for diagnosis. Well, they use, may artificial intelligence to touch the lung of the people and trying to do a prediction with respect to that. Jose Guerrero: They use artificial intelligence to look all drugs in drug discovery. in this particular case the you in society as skill, they try to determine which way in this particular case. Jose Guerrero: The virus was spreading and the last one. And I want to emphasize one of them 4.2 textual data, everything that that patients telling me everything that the customer tells me Jose Guerrero: 80% of all the data is not a structure. 20% are numbers but 80% are known as structure, so I have to learn how to interpret that sort of data. Jose Guerrero: Georgetown has worked very hard for many years I have to congratulate everybody we have launched. Let me do a little ad in here at least Jose Guerrero: We have launched a Masters of Science and business analytics. It was an effort. I have to thank evidently our dean. Jose Guerrero: And the dean of the MBA for all the hard work. We have a wonderful professor who's leading the effort, who is the director Sudipta Dasmohapatra. Jose Guerrero: She's going to be. She's the new director, we are launching in January, we are beginning in January. But look at some of the topics that they have, you know, statistics, machine learning, programming. Jose Guerrero: You guys, you read it, I’m just moved with all the topics that you have there. Jose Guerrero: One of the most important thing in this particular case is to realize that the topic in our listing is very complex, not only for the COVID, but for decision making industry. We are surrounded the data and sometimes Jose Guerrero: We don't know what to do. I'm going to have. I'm going to go quickly to two examples because they talk about a small data and this particular case. Jose Guerrero: Small data is the type of analytics that is especially designed not only for a small data, but to make quick decision making. Sometimes the data here is small and sometimes the complexity is not as big as big data. Jose Guerrero: Small data becomes more and more popular when you're looking at Internet of Things, you know, set a small sensors all the information given by the different sensors that you have around you. Jose Guerrero: Small data connects people with timely meaningful insights, organize and package all should often visually to be accessible, understandable and actionable. I teach a class in small data. Jose Guerrero: And one of the most important things is not only big data exists and the complexity complexity of big data. Jose Guerrero: But also the possibility of making good decisions with a small data set using different techniques that are not used with big data sets. Jose Guerrero: One of the elements that I chose as an example was something called index spreader somebody that began. Jose Guerrero: spreading to a small group of people that perhaps later on could become a big spreader. This case is a real case and it's related to the airline industry, a woman. Jose Guerrero: A 27 year old business woman from Vietnam was what is called index case, the first person. This is important case because these occur in March. Jose Guerrero: 1st of this year, she was patient number 17 in the whole Vietnam. So they were only 16 cases and she was number 17 Jose Guerrero: So in order to do a small data have to go deeper and try to figure out how this person begins spreading Jose Guerrero: COVID, especially in the plane you know very well the airline industry has suffered tremendously. Jose Guerrero: furloughs today, as you know very well, waiting for Congress to give the aid. So let me read it to you quickly on February 22 case 1 when her sister returned to Milan, Italy. Jose Guerrero: Subsequently traveled to Paris, France from the early fashion week before returning to London. Jose Guerrero: She was in London and in London March first she had a sore throat, cough, and boarded a flight home to Vietnam. No one noticed. the flight took a long time, took 10 hours. Jose Guerrero: After the flight, London and following the patient 15 other people who had flew the plane were infected. Jose Guerrero: So it's a small data because I have one person. I have one plane. So something contained. Let me show you how the plane looked like she's traveling business class. Jose Guerrero: I don't know if you could see that she traveled in 5K just at the top of my left, the people that are in orange where the guy, where the one that caught COVID Jose Guerrero: So she was seated in business class. The people in front and two rows after her got COVID. Jose Guerrero: Now I don't know if you could see it there, and there in the screen. There are two people working in economy class that also got COVID Jose Guerrero: So why did these people get covered because using a small data technique we learned that the stewardess working in economy. She went to the bathroom in business class and then came back and those people also got COVID This is typical example or small data, you have to go deeper and for Vietnam was extremely important because from 16 cases it doubled Jose Guerrero: In a couple of weeks. This is what we learnt you guys let me show you some statistics, the conclusion is that the probability or the risk Jose Guerrero: If you have some with COVID the risk is one row, another row, when they are two rows away or less, the probability of the relative risk. Jose Guerrero: For COVID is 90% if you are more than two seats away, it’s 0.1% evidently this information is useful because it tells you, in which way you could analyze the data. Jose Guerrero: And I have very small minutes, isn't it, you guys. Jose Guerrero: So very quickly ladies and gentlemen super spreading, super spreading is becoming one of the hot topics in the worries about the COVID Jose Guerrero: Super spreader that it's an outbreak where a small number of infected cases generated a large number of secondary infections, for example, 20% of the infections individually are responsible for 80% of the newly generated cases. Super spreading is one of the biggest worries that we have at this moment, the definition of super spreading is the following: a patient transmitted disease to at least a context, based on the analysis of SARS spread. It's a super spreader. two simple examples, number one. Jose Guerrero: My alma mater, University of Illinois. I got my PhD there ladies and gentlemen, University of Illinois was it's a large university in which before the students came Jose Guerrero: To campus, they decided to create a model in order to check which could be the spread, how many number of people. The model was complicated and was greeted by two physicists. Jose Guerrero: The model evidently was an advanced model. These are the two physicists and look at this in the model. There was was the possibility of the 50,000 students that 7000 students were partying, three times a week. Jose Guerrero: The model was able to help to determine the number of cases, it seems to be that they were partying 7000 students, but in the model, they did not have Jose Guerrero: The information about the non-compliance. The model assumed everybody was going to behave. They were not going to get drunk and then we're going to comply with the distance and things like that. Jose Guerrero: Be careful in big data. And it's more data. We have many models, but the assumptions are wrong. The model collapses and the last one. Jose Guerrero: You guys have heard about the Sturgis South Dakota annual motorcycle rally. One of the biggest thing in the US. What you haven't read is Sturgis and would you have in blue, all the people that went from the different parts of the US to Sturgis there was the Conference of people Jose Guerrero: Unfortunately, Jose Guerrero: Between august 7 and August 16 half a million people imagine half a million people in a small place converge to Sturgis South Dakota. Jose Guerrero: We discovered the large crowds couple with minimal mask wearing and social distances raise concern. We didn't know what was going to happen. So there was a model. The model predicted the following Jose Guerrero: That 266,796 cases or 19% of the cases in the US in that period was produced by the rally. If you want to do business like and you want to Jose Guerrero: estimate how much it costs to take care of something with COVID, some research has been done. So, it costs $46,000 to take somebody with COVID Jose Guerrero: So they estimated that the total cost to the nation or to the group was $12 billion. Jose Guerrero: Now in order to do something like this, you need different models. Models are that are much more complex model, that you follow a model that you trace. the same happened with the plane. So let me show you the model I started This was the model. Jose Guerrero: You guys, I'm now going to describe the model. The model is beautiful, how the people did, they were looking at how the people who are moving around in which way everybody interacted So in this particular case we don't only get information, what the government said or what the State said, it takes much more time in order to create a model, that the model could really explain the complexity of the problem. Jose Guerrero: Lauren, I am okay in time. Lauren Apicella: Yes, you're fine. We have another half hour. Jose Guerrero: Okay. Jose Guerrero: I'm going to stop the share Jose Guerrero: And I could see you guys. Jose Guerrero: Jocelyn, would you like to Jose Guerrero: Begin Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Hi, can you hear me, I have to follow the model. I had to follow the beautiful model. Oh my goodness. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I'm going to talk a little bit informally just about my experience working with data and analytics. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Some of the places where I think my Georgetown education helped me and some things I learned along the way and then I'll talk a little bit about my two cents on futures and data and analytics with COVID Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I'd like to just briefly walk through that and I'm going to invite everybody to interrupt me with questions as we go. I'd like to keep this really conversational, and of course I'll keep it brief so that we can loop back to Q&A with anything that you might be interested in. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So one thing I wanted to start with is just a personal story. I can't see everybody on the line here, but I did not study with Professor Guererro, I studied with Professor Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Komrad and I don't know if he's on the line. I'm hoping he is because I wanted to Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Just share a story. And I've actually checked this with a lot of people, and in addition to being a very talented professor and teacher. He also had this sort of sixth sense about when your attention might be wavering, and he would just in the middle of his Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Speech, he would just in the middle just sort of shout your name out like I would just be talking and say Aishah Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I’m going to write this on the board now and I don't really know because I didn't change my body language in any way. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: My eyes didn't shift, but he always knew when you're just gonna just maybe go away and he always kept us focused and I'm going to kind of come back to that class, actually, because I use a lot of things today, in that I learned at Georgetown. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So just a little bit about my experience, I've gotten more and more drawn into data and analytics and I, I'd have to say that Jocelyn Byrne Houle: While I do work with analytics on the analysis side more and more I'm focused on how do we get Jocelyn Byrne Houle: our arms around disparate data sources and wrangle them into some sort of body of information that can be analyzed for decision making in a really dynamic setting. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So that really started with my work at Fannie Mae, the main things that worked on there, during that I was there during the crash of Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Oh, nine and we work to very rapidly reprice every loan in the country. So I don't know, you know, Fannie Mae's data is massive in scale. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The main thing. The other thing I worked on there is how to do modeling and predictive analytics for the value of collateral Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Some of you may remember that one of the problems with the oh nine crashes that we didn't have Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Maybe it's not the rigor around understanding the underlying collateral that was underwriting Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Many of these mortgage loans. And so we had to move from collecting three pieces of data to over 2000 and get a predictive sense of what the value of the collateral was as part of the underwriting decision. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: From there, you know, I did a number of different things. The next interaction I had was working at my own found, I found in my own startup in medical data that delivered Jocelyn Byrne Houle: proofed identity Sure, do not resuscitate orders to any platform. And so that's working with the most highly sensitive private data as you might imagine. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: As my husband pointed out my husband, who also went to Georgetown. So there's another thing, Georgetown gave me but he pointed out, it's my two favorite topics software and death so we can talk about that in another zoom later. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Then at Capital One. Most recently, I've been a product lead for all of our meta data. Data quality, data lineage, and scanning all of our data at capital one for any sensitive or private data. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: That endeavor. I'd love to talk about more if you guys have questions, but I think you were talking a little bit Professor Guerrero about the importance and the rising Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Volume of unstructured data, how we can really utilize that Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I think there's a ton of opportunity. I mean, I'd love to hear. Aishah’s point of view, but certainly in banking and finance I sort of know about it, but I don't think we have yet to figure out exactly how to leverage it Jocelyn Byrne Houle: As compared to our expertise in the structured data world. For those of you are not like data started. Sorry if you’re not data oriented but unstructured data, things like Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The log from a call that a customer makes it's a video. It's a document like your email document. There's things I can't quite see what type of data is in there, but it does hold good information. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So then today at Capital One. I have to practice areas I cover from the venture side and one is a data and infrastructure and the other one is Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Enterprise Applications for productivity, which is COVID related as well because of the future of work is something we spend a lot of time talking about Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Just covering those briefly because Jocelyn Byrne Houle: We can come back to it because I wanted to talk about, you know, as I got deeper and deeper into analytics and data, I would not have necessarily said that was my background, except for the courses I took at Georgetown. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So when I got to Fannie and they asked me to do this analysis. I was really reaching back to my coursework and kind of learning on the job too Jocelyn Byrne Houle: A couple of things I wanted to shout out about particularly to a Georgetown and maybe a liberal arts education or Humanities Centered background, the things that really helped me there from a Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Skills perspective, we're really learning those crisp, clean problem statement skills that I think we really focus on at Georgetown and I'm sure if we do an analytics program is probably a big part of that as well. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The ability to enunciate in English and do a beautiful equation that you can also use to describe in language so that regular people can understand it. That was really my starting point for navigating some very complex issues. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The other thing I had there and I can shout out to all the women from Georgetown have helped me but I had a great mentor who was a woman who not only helped me by sending me back to redo my work so many times. I'm actually getting a rapid heartbeat recalling it right now. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The dread, I would feel going into my spreadsheet. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: My complex beautiful models that she would immediately untie she held me to a very high standard. And I think that really helped me Jocelyn Byrne Houle: To even today, I kind of harking back to, like, well, what would Jean do and how would I structure this in particular and other kind of theme this mentor of mine, along with the work I did at Georgetown is Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Two ways of looking at the answer. So always making sure. And I think that's where this small data, Big Data theme really Jocelyn Byrne Houle: appealed to me too is, you know, just as you get one beautiful answer maybe look at it a different way, double check it, try and break your answer before you present it to a group or or Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Like recommend a business action based on that and so Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Having a mentor who holds you to a high standard and a background in education that really focuses on the question, the data, the fundamental inputs to the analysis. So you're not sort of Jocelyn Byrne Houle: starstruck with a beautiful slide or a beautiful graph, but really able to break apart the analysis. Those are the things that have helped me the most. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Today in, just in my practice areas. I thought I would just share some things that we're noticing as we're working with young data startups and at Capital One what we're thinking about right now. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Of course, our main concern is our customers to make sure that we're super responsive to their needs, whether it's servicing need Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Adjusting billing working, with them on their payment, making sure they have the right credit decision making for the types of credit we're offering them, small business services. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The car loan, right, all of those things, you know, have taken a radical shift in our analysis, which has to be immediate. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: But unfortunately, some of the things we knew before have changed history isn't as helpful as it used to be, to us so we're spending a lot of time looking at startups in the Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Identifying outliers. So artificial intelligence, to basically find out what you didn't know to ask about in your data. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So most of these like blind spots in your data that are beyond this grasp with your questions. There are AI models designed to help you ask better questions. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The other thing we're looking at is the ability to democratize data, giving business people and non-coders more access to the information that they need. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: And then this sort of counter pressure. There's privacy. So we're also spending a lot of time thinking about how can we be really intelligent about protecting people's privacy. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Even as we're getting more granular and more savvy about how to deeply understand their individual credit or their individual situation. So there's kind of two counter pressures going on there that we deal with all the time. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: The last one I'll just give a shout out for is spending a lot of time thinking about the new work world in COVID. And I think that's particularly interesting for working moms myself, Aishah. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: In some ways it's the hardest time ever to be a parent and be a full time working parent Jocelyn Byrne Houle: And other ways. There's some new opportunities, perhaps on the horizon, where we don't have to travel as much, or you have a more flexible schedule and there's a lot of interesting software startups that are thinking a lot about that. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So I'll just kind of pause there. I have no idea where I am in time. But if anybody has some questions or wants me to kind of rewind to a topic that's of interest. I'd love to hear it. Lauren Apicella: You have plenty of time. Don't worry. We actually do have a question which I think all of you can speak to Lauren Apicella: Danielle has said, we would love to hear more about how you have handled challenges in the business world where you knew data was being manipulated to either show a better or worse picture of a situation to leadership and how did you respond, how did you react, what did you do Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I don't know what you're talking about. I've never seen that. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: No, you know, it happens unintentionally. I think people come in. I think bias, right. I think the first thing is like having a culture that really, I would say my two cents and Aishah I'll kick it over to you. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Having like a, you know, almost a bias of a police man on your team somebody who's always looking out for you know your thought process and helping everybody stay Jocelyn Byrne Houle: As even tempered as possible. And then the other thing I would say is I do think it's really important to try and cross check and come up with Jocelyn Byrne Houle: You know, something that breaks, whatever your result is just to have somebody cross checking the analysis when the business decisions are incredibly important. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Aishah why don’t I just kick it over to you. I don't want to monopolize Aishah Iqbal: No it's, it's, it's pretty awesome how both you and I just started cracking up when that Aishah Iqbal: Question came up so, I'm in the marketing world right now in advertising and I lovingly call it me doing the devil's work. Aishah Iqbal: We're like the devil's foot soldiers, because essentially we're in this business to get people to spend money right like that's what advertising is all about the more successful your advertising. Aishah Iqbal: It means that people have spent money to purchase whatever it is that you're trying to sell. And so for this. Aishah Iqbal: Question. Specifically, it is the day to day challenge for analytics in this space because the analytics team is always seen as the unbiased. Aishah Iqbal: Or or the auditors of information, but we also have to serve very, you know, multiple stakeholders, internal stakeholders as well as external stakeholders. Our clients. Aishah Iqbal: And people always want to use the data to help them tell the story that they want. And there's so much spin that can happen in marketing and advertising. Aishah Iqbal: And it's tough. It is really tough to stand by, you know, what the numbers say, it is not enough. Many times to go in front of a group and say, well, that's what the data is telling me, and that is what you should do. Aishah Iqbal: People don't want to hear that unless it is a positive story, but the data is insane. Aishah Iqbal: So a lot of it is really then just comes down to actual people skills right? data is one part, but an important part of analytics is Aishah Iqbal: How, how can you use this work to help people understand, the work is useless if the people that you're delivering it to don't understand it. Aishah Iqbal: And that is what I have learned over my career. So I'll come back to this question. Jocelyn. If you're done. I'd like to go ahead and get into my my spiel Aishah Iqbal: Um, so I did not start my career in Analytics. I started, I mean 10 year old Aishah would not have looked at 42 year old Aishah right now. And like, yeah. Aishah Iqbal: I'm going to be VP of analytics on day, no. 10 year old Aishah wanted to either be a UN diplomat or a journalist. Aishah Iqbal: But then college Aishah was just like, I don't know if I'll be able to make much money. So the greed kicked in, capitalism, kicked in. I was just like, Okay, let me Aishah Iqbal: Let me do something that will help me pay some bills and live a kind of lifestyle. So I got into business. Um, but I got into the tech side. So working at Dell was my first job. Aishah Iqbal: And essentially, my first job was at that time, Dell was completely known for at the speed of Dell. Getting Things Done so quickly. Aishah Iqbal: My job was to put some speed bumps in place. So I was part of the QA team, the quality assurance team that was that was putting processes in place to make sure that the developers were Aishah Iqbal: You know, following a plan and following standards so that the work could be, you know, useful in other places. Aishah Iqbal: So you can imagine that me and my team were not well liked in the organization. But that was my, That is how you know I started my career. And then after that I went to Georgetown for my MBA. Aishah Iqbal: And what I'm about to share right now. I have not shared openly outside of like maybe one or two friends and my family members, but Aishah Iqbal: I remember sitting in Professor Guererro’s class and I think that the words I’m going to use, Professor, are ones that you used, but I remember looking at the work and I was just like, holy crap. This is Martian language to me. Aishah Iqbal: I don't understand it. And I freaked out. I was just like, I'm sitting in a class, full of, like, really smart people. And why don't I know this. So, Aishah Iqbal: I would say that, I got my motivation to come into analytics was fear. I had always been afraid of math. I had always been afraid of numbers. Aishah Iqbal: Because, for some reason, I told myself I wasn't good at it. I loved English loved history love literature, all of that math no. So then Aishah Iqbal: It was, it was really, that's what Georgetown did for me, my MBA program at Georgetown. It made me go headfirst into this Aishah Iqbal: It showed me that you know what this is an area, you need to build up on. you can either go for it, or you can run from it. I decided to go for it. And so I remember interning Aishah Iqbal: That that first summer at AOL in their marketing analytics department. Again I coasted through that summer just not knowing what I was supposed to be doing. I didn't understand the work I just did it because I knew I had to Aishah Iqbal: And thankfully they decided to hire me full time after my MBA program was completed after I graduated, so I was just like, I have a job. Aishah Iqbal: And I'm very thankful to my manager, she really exemplified for me, the kind of analytics leader I would eventually want to be. she Aishah Iqbal: I know deep down, she knew that I didn't know what I was doing, that I didn't understand the work, but she valued everything else that I brought to the table. She valued me and she believed in my, in my abilities. Aishah Iqbal: So in at AOL. I was working in marketing in their marketing department, but in their internal so that's when they were still going after dial up subscribers and trying to get paid from them. Aishah Iqbal: So I remember having to work on this model. It was a revenue contribution model that would predict. Like if we get a payment Now how much revenue are we going to get from that. Aishah Iqbal: Or if we get revenue you know X period down the line. How much revenue, can we expect? I did not know anything if you guys are taking any way like for the first four years of my career in Analytics. I was just coasting. I was just like just do the work. You will learn just do it. Aishah Iqbal: And so I got laid off from AOL. That's when we we had our 2008 recession and Aishah Iqbal: It was probably the most fun four months of my life because I think as an adult. The only real vacation you get is when you're in between jobs. Aishah Iqbal: So I had, I had severance. I had my four months I explored DC I explored the East Coast and then I took that chance and I moved across the country to San Francisco. And that's where my career really Aishah Iqbal: Started in the advertising space that's when I, you know, got really great exposure by working on the Microsoft account and Aishah Iqbal: Just, just working around really smart people, there, really upped my game and then from there I worked with accounts like Wells Fargo, Charles Schwab, Ghirardelli, Sony Nokia, so a good mix of accounts but largely tech Aishah Iqbal: And, you know, and through that work by being in the lower levels of marketing analytics and then especially like, kind of like advertising and analytics. Aishah Iqbal: By learning and then by leading teams, what I started to understand is where in the analytics spectrum. I actually want to be in. Aishah Iqbal: I actually started appreciating and something professor, you said, that analytics is everywhere. I started realizing that all this time I was afraid of math and numbers. Aishah Iqbal: But I am a logical thinker and that's what analytics is also, you know, how, how, how do you input logic and how do you use that to make informed decisions. Aishah Iqbal: And so that was me, naturally. And so through my time in my career, I've learned that I want to help people understand each other. So something I said before is that in analytics. Aishah Iqbal: No matter how wonderful your model is or how wonderful your, your, your, your, your Aishah Iqbal: Analysis may be, if you cannot speak about it. If you cannot share it with people in a way that they understand what it is that you're trying to tell them it's useless. Aishah Iqbal: All of that good work is just useless because you weren't able to translate that over and I noticed that, that's kind of where I can help. I can help bridge those two worlds. I can help be that translator and that's exactly what I'm doing now and it's pretty amazing. Aishah Iqbal: But it's also, you know, helped me in my personal life as well. And what I mean by that is I have aspirations to be on the TED stage one day. Aishah Iqbal: I just want to talk to people. I want to help change the world. And so the first time I tried to put a pitch together for a topic. The topic was Aishah Iqbal: Single moms and shaming single moms, I myself am an unmarried mom. So this is a topic near and dear to my heart. Aishah Iqbal: Um, and so when I was putting the pitch together. I started looking at statistics about single moms and they're like dismal. I mean, the picture of the single mom, and the US is just like, forget about it. Aishah Iqbal: But being the analytical thinker, that I am and what analysts really do well is interrogate data that they see. We never look at something and take it at first glance, we always question it Aishah Iqbal: And so I found myself questioning these statistics. So think of things like Aishah Iqbal: single mothers are children of single mothers are more likely to become drug users or or uneducated and poor. I started digging down. Why is it? because there's no father at home? Aishah Iqbal: But why is there no father at home. Is it because of mental health issues or they're in jail. Aishah Iqbal: And if they're in jail. Is it because you know what race Are they? are they, black, white, Hispanic, and if they're black. Is it because it really because of Aishah Iqbal: Of one thing or could it be pointing to other bigger societal factors like racism in our criminal justice system. Aishah Iqbal: And privatization and capitalization, things like that. And so just that one question, made me dig down and keep digging and keep digging. Aishah Iqbal: And so that's what analytics has helped me do. it has helped me question things in a very productive way like COVID, for example, in the beginning, like, March, April frame. Aishah Iqbal: Timeframe when we started seeing all these stats about like, this many deaths or this many cases in this. The first thing my mind went to was okay. Out of how many tested. Aishah Iqbal: What is what what is, what is the denominator that we're looking at here because I wanted to understand scale, rather than just look at the absolute value Aishah Iqbal: And so that's that is again, Professor when you said analytics is everywhere. That is analytics as well. Aishah Iqbal: You know analytics wasn't only the one thing that I was scared of which is just like Aishah Iqbal: Data Science looking at just loads of unstructured data and you know modeling and you Aishah Iqbal: Know analytics can happen every day when you're watching TV when you're looking at the news. It's just questioning and trying to better understand what it is that you're seeing Aishah Iqbal: And Jocelyn. I want to go back to the, I think there was an earlier point about unstructured data and kind of the uses of it. Aishah Iqbal: I mean in marketing and in advertising. It is gold. For us, the more we can get on our customers, the more we can get on our users. Obviously, the better because we, you know, want to be more targeted and we want to find every way we can to get them to spend money. So how COVID has impacted Aishah Iqbal: Google who's, who's my client right now is in two big ways one is on the brand side. Aishah Iqbal: You know what, what, what do people think about them as a brand. Now in this space. During this time, and then obviously too on the sales side. How has it impacted the sales. How has it impacted the bottom dollar for them? Aishah Iqbal: And so when COVID hit there were pretty immediate steps that we had to implement like no more testing. We can't test right now because Aishah Iqbal: We don't know our baselines are shifting, you know, how will we know if this is a real result or something that we can use for future planning because we don't know what the new normal is, normal It wasn't normal anymore. Aishah Iqbal: And then we don't also don't know how long this is going to last, or what the world will look like afterwards so testing at this time. Aishah Iqbal: Testing and doing any kind of user research is just really difficult. But then, even on the brand side. That's something that Aishah Iqbal: You know, things like text analytics and sentiment analysis really helps with. is just understanding and reading people's feelings and thoughts and then trying to make a decision on what to do next, after that. Aishah Iqbal: I know I've done a lot of talking, but I was making sure that I had covered off certain points. So I'm going to stop now me Lauren Apicella: Thank you so much. And we have time for one more question which somebody has put in. Big data has been touted as being used in all places and everywhere Equally, but it may not be worth the work equally. So how do you measure Lauren Apicella: And decide Lauren Apicella: What requires data analytics or not. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: I just want to get quick run at this and Aishah I'll let you as well, this is like this One thing I do wring my hands about a little bit Jocelyn Byrne Houle: At a high level, I feel like a lot of times we kind of chicken out on big Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Business problems and decisions because we are like, Oh, well, you know, we looked it up. We didn't study and this is what the study says, and here's what users want Jocelyn Byrne Houle: But in reality, we have experience we have insight we have ethical considerations and as business leaders. We gotta make decisions. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Not just based on the data that's a huge input, but on the whole package. And so I do. I would love to see more leadership taking that perspective rather than just being so data. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Data only, data centric only there's more to a decision than only the inputs of the data. And then the second thing I would say is Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Similarly, I do run into. I like that question. I think we need to come up with some sort of measure, maybe this is something that Georgetown could come up with the Jocelyn Byrne Houle: You know the falling off point from, you know, we have these models that take in thousands of inputs, but really only seven or eight move the needle. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: You could have something much more simple and parsimonious that is easier to manage long term and takes less data. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: So I think we do have to get a little smarter about that, even for pretty high, high profile decision making. Sometimes you don't need something so fancy. I'll just kind of lead that Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Over to you Aishah. Aishah What do you think Aishah Iqbal: I completely agree. Jocelyn, I think. Aishah Iqbal: On a more kind of tactical side what this what this looks like on the job front. Aishah Iqbal: Is sometimes, you know, data, big data was such a sexy term like in the past couple of years, past few years, everyone wants to get into data, big data. Everyone wants to be a data scientist. Aishah Iqbal: On the advertising side. What are the limitations in place? you know we we sometimes, you know, the first party data that Google has Aishah Iqbal: Only Google people within Google can enjoy the breath of that data and use that data for certain things, but on the agency side. We're very limited to the access that we can get Aishah Iqbal: So when we're hiring data scientists, where it. Unfortunately, it ends up being that we're hiring them for a promise, rather than reality. Aishah Iqbal: We promised them that, oh, you're going to get your hands dirty in all of this kind of data first party user level data that you can do so many things with them build so many different data products from Aishah Iqbal: But then, three, four or five months later we churn them out because they didn't get to do the work that they were promised to do, so. Aishah Iqbal: I think it's important, at least to level said and be very real about what it means about big data and how and where that can actually show up in the real world, and especially in a person's career. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: And we have a whole we haven't even gotten into it, but I would say the other component here is the cyber component in terms of protecting personal data is Jocelyn Byrne Houle: Reading and analyzing it. Jocelyn Byrne Houle: There's a ton of overhead, both in Compute and software smarts, that is required there. So in terms of is it worth the work I think that question is going to be asked more and more as we get into the tension between protecting privacy and getting the right answer. Jose Guerrero: Listen The only thing I want to add In this particular case is Jose Guerrero: That you could have as much data as you want, but at the same time, you have to have a professional that not only knows data analysis, but also the level of expertise. Jose Guerrero: I do have a mathematician or somebody who knows tons of but when base going to talk to somebody in marketing in some other area. This person doesn't know. So the idea is to create this global Jose Guerrero: And the stand in person that not only could analyze the data being in tune with the society, they're working on and also transmit the information Jose Guerrero: That's what we need, as Aishah said, I always say we need translator of knowledge and also determine when we could use the data if the data is stressed with it, whether Jose Guerrero: It happened in many countries in the world that the data we observed in right now in COVID these three weeks or four weeks, all of the government is channeling Jose Guerrero: To one area that people do not trust if you don't have trust in the data and the data could be good, but old, they do trust in the data is fundamental, not only in this situation, but in business, but we need translators, people who really could communicate Jose Guerrero: We could keep on talking, Lauren, but I think the time is over. Lauren Apicella: I think that's it for today. Thank you so so much, Professor Guererro Cusomano, Jocelyn and Aishah I sincerely appreciate Lauren Apicella: You bringing your expertise to this panel and thank you to everyone who joined us for this panel for Lauren Apicella: The state of the school. It was just wonderful. I really, really appreciate it. And a quick reminder that this recording will be posted online in the next few days on our website and we'll send that around when it is available. Lauren Apicella: I have a few closing remarks before I send you all over to the happy hours. And Lauren Apicella: Don't worry, we're about to have some fun and excuse me, let me turn on my video. Lauren Apicella: And we do want to ask you to mark your calendars for next year's graduate alumni reunion weekend. Lauren Apicella: We will hopefully be hosting you all on campus. On October 1 and second 2021 and we'll be sending more information about that in the next few weeks. Lauren Apicella: We are going to move now to our virtual class happy hours. I am posting the link in the chat for everybody. So feel free to click that and you will be sent out of this zoom and into the next zoom meeting and Lauren Apicella: Your reunion committee volunteers have volunteered to act as moderators, and the different breakout rooms and so thank you so much for joining us today and we're looking forward to seeing you at happy hour with your Hoya cocktails and mocktails. Jose Guerrero: All right, good. All right. Lauren Apicella: Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Professor. Thank you. Jocelyn. Thank you Aishah thank you for Prashant, Allen and Bardia and Paul. Thank you, guys. We'll see you soon. 