 Coordinator: Welcome, and thank you for standing by. At this time all participants will be on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session of today's call. At that time you will need to press Star followed by the number 1, unmute your line, record your name clearly as prompted to be introduced. Today's conference is also being recorded. And if you have any objections you may disconnect. I'd now like to introduce Lynda Lee. Ma'am you may begin. Lynda Lee: Good afternoon everyone. My name is Lynda Lee and thank you for attending today's webinar. I want to welcome everyone to our series Exploring Census Data. If you have been following our series we began in April with the first in the series on International Trade. Since then the series have included other topics presented on a monthly basis. For anyone who may have missed the session we have our presentation recording and transcript archived on our site census.gov found under "Recorded Webinars." Fifth in the series today is on our Small and Minority-Owned business data. Today's webinar will be presented by Mr. Adam Grundy who is a Statistician with our Economic Program. Our second speaker today is Mr. Caleb Hopler who is also a Statistician from our Demographic Program American Community Survey. In a moment, Adam and Caleb will be presenting practical ways to use our data on small and minority-owned businesses. Our speakers will also be showing you how to obtain the data using the available data tools. Before we begin let me give you a quick look into our series. The Exploring Census Data Webinar series consist of six webinars presented monthly on popular topics. On the right side of the screen we have included the upcoming topics and session dates. Other items consistent throughout the series is the use of real live case scenarios to illustrate practical ways to use the data. Each of the webinars in the series is presented by subject matter experts with the opportunity for Q&A at the end of each session. And if you missed the webinar, want to refer a colleague to a session you found to be helpful or simply would like to view it again, each of the sessions will be recorded and posted at the link provided here. Archived for you as well is our 2018 series. So let's begin with general information about the Census Bureau. The Census Bureau is the federal government's largest statistical agency. We conduct over 100 surveys each year with some of our highly visible programs such as the Decennial, the American Community Survey and the Economic Census listed here. Out of these 100 plus surveys over 60 of them collect business data. Now when it comes to our data a pyramid is a good illustration of the relationship between details and timeliness. So in general the more timely the data the less details. With that being said, the Economic Census is a periodic survey that takes place every five years. It is illustrated at the bottom of the pyramid because it is the most comprehensive program when you're looking for business data. During today's webinar the data you will see is a mixture of different categories on the pyramids. On the next slide I'm going to briefly provide a general review of our Decennial Census. The primary purpose of the 2020 Decennial Census is to collect data on population and housing. But there are many other important purposes. The data from the 2020 helps with drawing congressional and state legislative districts, school districts, and voting precincts distributing billions of dollars annually in funding to states and local communities. These outcomes affect every person in the United States which is why it's important that we have a complete and accurate Census. Since the 2020 census will touch our lives in the near future here's a timeline of our activities so you can know what's coming down the road. In March of next year households will be receiving an invitation to participate and respond. As you can see from the timeline reminders will be delivered to those who may have missed the initial mailings. Every household will have the option of responding online, by phone or by mail. So what can you do to get involved to help make the 2020 census a complete and accurate count of the nation's people? You can actively support and spread the word about completing your 2020 census in your community. You can learn more about approximately 500,000 temporary census jobs that may come available in the spring of 2020. You can remind others that census is important, easy and safe. Lastly, you can join your local complete count committee and lend your expertise to ensure that all areas of your community are accurately counted in 2020. And at this point I would like to turn the presentation over to Adam who will begin today's webinar on small and minority owned businesses. Adam Grundy: Thanks Lynda. In today's webinar Caleb and I will guide you through some of the Census Bureau data sources that include data on small and minority owned businesses. Examples of small minority owned business data sources available from the census including data tools, including Census Business Builder and American Fact Finder, infographics and other key visualizations and then in scope and out of scope points on minority owned businesses. One important point is that small business is not a term used by the Census Bureau. However, we do have a great data on these topics. These include data sources such as Survey of Business Owners, or, "SBO," Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs or "ASE," Annual Business Survey or "ABS," county business patterns or CBP and non-employer statistics or NES. You may also notice some screen shots in this presentation from familiar data tools such as American Fact Finder, data.census.gov and Census Business Builder. The first program I'm going to go in detail with is the survey of business owners. The survey of business owners began as a special project to measure the competitiveness of US minority owned businesses. Data have been collected every five years as part of the economic census for years ending in two and seven. From the 1972 to the 2012 economic census, the SBO has provided the only comprehensive regularly collected source of information on selected economic and demographic characteristics for businesses and business owners by gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status. Title 13 of the United States Code authorizes this survey and requires mandatory responses by businesses selected to be surveyed. For the 2012 SBO a large sample size of 1.75 million firms were surveyed to produce detailed statistics on employer and non-employer businesses. Estimates include the number of employer and non-employer firms, sales and receipts, annual payroll and employment. Data aggregates are presented by gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status for United States by 2012 North American Classification System, or "NAICS," states, metropolitan statistical areas, counties, places, and employment and receipt size. Data products include the SBO that publishes tables containing information on the sex, ethnicity, race, and veteran status of the majority of business owners. Select tables have statistics for detailed ethnicity and race subgroups. Selected tables also have all relevant geographies where certain tables have US level data only. This 2012 survey of business owner's visualization shows America's diverse entrepreneurs with each group as a percentage of all business owners. This is a screenshot of a filtered 2012 SBO table as it appears in American Fact Finder or "AFF" which is the Census Bureau's current online reference tool. This example is showing detailed data related to minority and business ownership in New York City, New York, by this industry sector. The next program I'm going to go into more detail with is the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs or "ASE". The ASE was designed to supplement the SBO to provide more timely annual statistics for the years 2014 through 2016. The ASE was a joint effort funded by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, the Minority Business Development Agency and the Census Bureau. Unlike the SBO the ASE collected data from 290,000 employer firms each survey year which result in the ASE publishing less detailed estimates for small and minority owned firms. Estimates are only published at the national, state and top 50 most populous metropolitan area levels. Additionally estimates by industry are not published lower than the sector or two-digit level. Data are available from the same demographic characteristics as the SBO that I rattled off earlier. Plus new modules of questions were introduced each survey year such as innovation, research and development which was in 2014, management and recordkeeping practices which was in 2015 and banking advice and planning and regulations which was in 2016. Data products are similar to the SBO except most tables have an additional brand-new variable column for years in business. This 2015 ASE visualization shows the top five states with the largest number of Hispanic owned employer firms. Even though this is from 2015, the 2016 ASE data has the exact same ranking. This is a screenshot of a filtered 2016 ASE table as it appears in the American Fact Finder. This example is showing the number of minority owned employer firms in the State of Florida by this industry sector of retail trade. Both the SBO and ASE tables in AFF can be modified to show the number of minority owned by gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status. This is a high-level overview of the evolution of the 2017 annual business survey which is one of our newer surveys. In the beginning there were three main surveys that were moving into the ABS. Survey of business owners, annual survey of entrepreneurs and the business research and development and innovation for microbusinesses survey. These three key surveys are moving into the annual business survey. In the end an enterprise platform for businesses is being created that features a combination of survey responses from businesses, as well as administrative data available. In name the annual business survey is a brand-new survey that was mailed out in June 2018. But it's not all new in terms of content because it's a consolidation of the existing surveys - the five-year SBO, the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs, and the Business Research and development in Innovation Survey for Microbusinesses. The ABS is a joint project between the Census Bureau and the National Science Foundation or NSF for survey years 2017 through 2021. The ABS will offer the only source of information for employer firms by gender, ethnicity, race, minority and veteran status while providing information on R&D for small employer firms. New content will be produced each survey year on relevant business topics. The 2017 ABS data products will present firm-level data by detailed industry and geography. Statistics will be presented by receipts, and employment size of firm, for small and minority-owned employer firms. Data products will begin to be released in December 2019 on a flow basis. In this next phase of the presentation I'll focus on the Data Tool Census Business Builder which recently had a new version release this past Friday, Version 2.6. One key point of note as I mentioned earlier is small business is not a term used in an official capacity by the Census Bureau. Instead small businesses are classified by the Small Business Administration or the SBA. The Census Business Builder includes several key variables on minority owned business categories and can be overlaid directly onto a map. The Regional Analyst Edition or RAE was used for obtaining these screenshots. And I'll go in more depth on the CBB functionality as I guide you through each of these screenshots. In this first screenshot you can see several key data points. First I selected the sector of retail trade at the top left circle by a red oval. Moving along the top of the screen Portland City, Oregon, is selected for the geography while the main map variable is percent minority owned employer firms. Keep in mind almost all of these data points are captured on the fly using the Census API. Many of these map variables can be manipulated or changed based on your data needs. In this screenshot the legend for percent minority owned firms are at the bottom right. The selected geography of Portland City, Oregon, shows 60% of the retail trade firms in this geography are owned by a minority. The main dashboard also has some great data nuggets such as the percent of minority owned non-employer firms. Percent black owned employer and non-employer firms as well as a total number of employer establishments. This change in the next screenshot has changed the main map variable to percent minority-owned non-employer firms. Keep in mind a non-employer firm are a business with no paid employees. Notice that much of the maps' data points have changed on this sector of the economy with the greatest concentration of non-employer minority owned firms just outside of the Portland City, Oregon, geography which is in dark blue. Next I'll show the true value of the CBB platform by going into detail with the reports that are available from this data tool. These reports can be downloaded, display many key variables on our focus on minority owned and small businesses. Additionally many of these data points include key data sources such as the 2016 county business patterns, 2016 zip code business patterns, 2016 non-employer statistics, 2012 SBO and of course the 2012 econ census. The first page of the report shows the Sector 4445 or retail trade. Employer businesses or businesses with paid employees are the first category showcased with data from the 2012 economic census, 2016 county business patterns as well as the 2016 zip code business patterns. In this example I have circled 2,527 employer establishments at the same geography as the map I showed you earlier. Under the fourth section of the report -- the business comparison -- shows our case study sector of retail trade in comparison to other sectors of the economy. As a quick comparison we see that there's 3,464 employer establishments in the sector and geography for the professional, scientific, and technical service's sector or 54. What I have highlighted is that retail trade has 2,527 employer establishments in Portland City, Oregon. These categories highlighted at the top also show our categories of different minority groups. For example by reading across the top left to the right percent minority owned employer firms, percent black owned firms, American-Indian and Alaskan Native owned employer firms and percent Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander employer firms. Of these categories retail trade has 16% minority unemployer firms compared to 14% Asian owned firms. Also we see that 74% of the employer firms surveyed in the 2012 survey of business owners were white owned. These are just a few of the many great data points that can be found using Census Bureau data and our data tools. Next I'll turn the presentation over to Caleb for a dive into the demographic data available from census. Caleb Hopler: Thanks Adam. For this next portion of the webinar I'd like to focus on how you can access Census Bureau demographic data from the American Community Survey for small and minority owned businesses. My name is Caleb Hopler and I am from the American Community Survey Office's Outreach and Education Branch. Not only will I show you the depth and breadth of sources and topics that the American Community Survey offers, but I'll also show you data tools that make it easy and intuitive to access this data. We will talk about how you can use these data at all levels of America's workforce and target market demographics. Then I'll provide ways for you to stay in touch with ACS news, updates, and data releases as well as to share contact information if you have any ACS related questions. The American Community Survey or ACS is the nation's most current, reliable and accessible data source for local statistics on critical planning topics such as age, children, veterans, commuting, education, income, and employment. The survey sample is approximately 3 1/2 million addresses. These data are collected continuously throughout the year to produce annual social, economic, housing, and demographic estimates. The ACS is also used to distribute more than $675 billion of federal government spending every single year. These estimates cover more than 40 topics and support more than 300 known federal uses and countless non-federal uses. Businesses and communities use these 11 billion estimates each year to make vital decisions including where to locate hospitals and schools, what transportation needs exist and what goods and services businesses should provide to customers. So we've released three different sets of estimates each year. One-year estimates are collected over a period of one calendar year and include geographies with populations above 65,000 people. One year supplemental estimates are as the name implies supplemental estimates for some of the more popular tables only for geographies with populations above 20,000. Five-year estimates are collected over a period of 60 months or five calendar years and are available at the more granular levels of geography such as the census tract and block group level. So this makes the ACS such a great source for understanding your workforce or target market. These small levels of geography can be combined to approximate the areas where you might want to hire employees or perhaps define communities to whom you want to target certain products or services to. So if you look at the blue bar on the right I have included real estimates from our 2017 five-year data. From these four broad categories that I mentioned earlier you can see how we have very specific topics that are directly related to information that you might want to know about your workforce or your target market communities. As I showed previously the content collected by the ACS can be grouped into these four main areas that I mentioned. On this slide we can get into a little more detail on the kind of information we can get from these areas. So, starting on the left with social characteristics, disability status, veterans, and language are generally particularly useful characteristics of an area to consider when it comes to demographics for say small and minority owned businesses. We can use data to quickly determine what kind of communities reside in our areas of interest and then target our business needs towards those considerations such as hiring or offering goods and services. The ACS also collects basic demographic characteristics such as age, Hispanic origin, race, relationship, and sex. You might recognize that this is the same information collected on the Decennial Census. Considering basic demographics of a region is important. For example you might want to know how much of a population is of working age or determine the racial distribution of a community and combine these demographics with the other topics that we've discussed. And now if you look below we can see economic characteristics which gives us information on poverty status, those in public assistance and the different types of industries of workers who live in the community to determine the economic strains or vulnerabilities in the area. And finally we can look to the right for topics that will tell us more about the housing stock. For example how old is this housing stock and what types of heating fuel are people using in these areas. So for context here you can see the different levels of geography that we offer. The ACS provides data for more geographies on an annual basis than any other household survey. The great thing about this slide is that you can see how the different levels of geography fit within one another. This is helpful for example if you'd like to combine these geographies to see how a specific area fits your target market. For example if you want to build a region. Lower geographic areas fit neatly within the larger areas directly connected with lines. So for example school, congressional and state legislative districts fit neatly within states and do not cross state boundaries. However they may cross boundaries of counties or metropolitan areas. And as you can see the smallest geographic building block is the block group. And now from this slide you can see some of the results from the data collected by the survey. Employers, federal agencies and federal government contractors are interested in knowing whether a program's designed to employ specific groups such as people with disabilities or veterans if these are succeeding. Industry, occupation and class of worker data provide additional detail about the jobs and careers pursued by people participating in these programs. And state and local agencies use these statistics to, one, identify labor surplus areas, like, areas with people available for hiring and training. Two, plan workforce development programs including job fairs and training programs. And lastly to promote business opportunities. We want to know more about people who are employed or looking for work in combination with educational attainment, age, gender, race, Hispanic origin, disability status, veteran status and other data to help governments and communities enforce civil rights laws against employment discrimination. For example these data help enforce non-discrimination in employment by federal agencies, private employers, employment agencies and labor organizations. Information on growing or declining industries and occupations help estimate changes in the economy. Labor force estimates are used in funding decisions to ensure surveys are accurate including surveys that provide official labor market estimates. And to understand changes in other data. So for an example the National Institute of Food and Agriculture use class of worker data to understand changes in farmworkers and agriculture. Now that we've gotten started with the logistics of the survey we'll take a look at how we can apply these data to small and minority owned businesses. Here we have a real-life example of ACS data in action in planning for a new small business. A successful high-end component manufacturer for mountain bikes considered opening his own bike shop to sell manufactured components along with mountain bikes and other components. He used data from the American Community Survey to identify potential customers. He was looking specifically for young professionals with moderate to high median household income that he could then market his new business. He also used census business data to identify locations where sporting goods stores which is NAICS Code 451110 which includes bike shops where these are located. These data not only identify possible competitors to his business but also potential businesses to collaborate with by opening a leased department within a larger store. Using the business data from census he was able to compare the payroll per employee, sales per employee, and other stats for the nine areas he considered which gave him a better understanding of his industry and what he should expect to pay his employees. This combined with the demographic data from the American Community Survey were included in his business plan and in the application that he submitted to his local small business lender for a startup capital loan. Now I'd like to transition to a live demo to show you how you can access ACS data through data.census.gov which is our new data dissemination platform. I'll show some tables that are available that you can access for insight into workforce demographics. Please note that ACS data is at the household level where people live. It is not based on their employment locations. So for today's webinar I'm going to be using the Los Angeles, California, metropolitan statistical area - specifically the Los Angeles, Long Beach, Anaheim, California, metro area. Now let's say if we want to check out an overall economic profile of this metro area. So I'll start by typing selected economic characteristics into the single search bar on our platform data.census.gov and enter. So here we are presented with tables. And we can scroll down for maps and since I'm only wanting the data right now I'm going to select underneath the table section the view all tables. And this here is going to bring up a list of tables on the left with the selected table maximized up on the right. So I'm going to scroll down the list of table options to find what I'm looking for of overall economic characteristics -- Table DPO3 - selected economic characteristics. And to further maximize this table as well as to customize and download the data I'll click here customize table. Now notice that when I search without noting a geography it provides data at the national level automatically. I can easily change geographies while I am viewing a table. I'll click the geography icon on the menu bar. I'm going to go to metro micro statistical area. As this loads we can either scroll down or search and I'm going to search. I'll start typing in Los Angeles and select my metro area, minimize the chevron here. And now we can see selected economic characteristics for this L.A. metro area such as employment status, commuting to work, occupation, industry, class of worker. I can also find income and benefits, health insurance coverage. And finally down here I can expand this column to see this full title of percentage of families and people whose income in the past 12 months is below the poverty level. So let's take a quick moment to look at class of worker. We ask about whether a person was a private employee, government employee, self-employed, or working without pay in a family business to produce statistics about class of worker. These statistics are used to understand more about the type of ownership of employing organizations to plan and measure education, employment, career development and job training programs and to measure compliance with antidiscrimination policies. So we can see here that there are over 6 1/2 million in the civilian employed population that are 16 years and older. And within this group 80% of which are private wage and salary workers. So now let's say a small business is looking for young college graduates to hire for entry level positions. Let's click on the census logo in the top left corner which will clear out any selections and take us back to the platform's homepage. I put search in the single search bar again. But I like to show you how to access our data through the advance search option. So let's start with topics. We're going to go to education and select educational attainment. And let's go to geography. We'll select our metro area again. Wait until it loads. I'm going to do a quick search. Here I'm checking to see if my variables are selected properly which they are so I'm going to go ahead and search. I'm going to view all tables. And I want Table S1501 which is luckily the one that's already popped up here. So I'll select customized table. I can see estimates and percentages for male, female and total. And so scrolling back over we can see here that 11.5% of the metro area's population between ages 18 and 24 have a Bachelor's Degree or higher. So if I wanted I could also figure out which census tracts lie within this metro area and see this data in more granular levels to know where to focus outreach efforts on hiring. Now for my last quick demo let's say you are interested in your area's workforce commuting or perhaps your target market's commuting also known as Journey to Work. So as you can see I'm going back to Advanced Search. I'm going to topics and employment, commuting. Then I'm going to be going to my geography, clicking my area of interest which is the L.A., California, metro area. Go ahead and search and let's click the second table option - means of transportation to work by selected characteristics. So now here I can check out the type of commuting, whether they drove alone, carpooled, or traveled by public transportation. And I can see all of this data by age, sex, race, Hispanic or Latino origin, occupation, industry, just to name a few examples of variables. So that in a nutshell are some ways to access our data in our new data dissemination platform of data.census.gov. Finally we invite you all to stay in touch. You can sign up for and manage alerts on the ACS via gov delivery, visit our Web site or connect on the various social media platforms using the hashtag ACS data. For support if you have any questions with our data please reach out to us at acso.users.support@census.gov. And if you're using ACS estimates in your work make sure to source us. It helps people figure out where they can get the detailed information that you provide and that we are giving you today. We also invite you to stay in touch by telling us how you use data from the American Community Survey. If you have used or plan on using ACS data to help create real outcomes in your community with regard to small and minority owned businesses, we would love to hear about it through our share your story feature. You can find it at the web address below. Now I'd like to switch over and transition back to Lynda. Lynda. Lynda Lee: Thank you Adam and Caleb for presenting our audience today with a wide array of data that we have here at the Census Bureau on small and minority owned businesses. Before we begin Q&A here's a look into what's coming next month. Final in the series is a webinar on hidden gems. In this webinar we will be featuring various programs that may be valuable for your research. The hidden gem's webinar is scheduled for September 25 at 2 pm Eastern time. To learn more about this upcoming webinar please visit the link provided here. Thank you everyone for taking the time out of your busy day to attend this webinar. At this time we would like to open our phone lines up to take any questions that you may have about our small and minority owned business data. In addition to our speakers we have additional subject matter experts here in the room to help us with questions. So you may hear additional speakers on the line. If you have questions regarding the 2020 decennial, please contact the telephone number provided on this slide. Operator at this moment do we have any questions? Coordinator: At this time to ask a question from the phone line please press Star followed by number 1. Again please unmute your line, record your name clearly as prompted to be introduced. Please keep your questions to one question and one follow up question. Again with questions please press Star followed by the number 1. Lynda Lee: And while we're waiting for questions I just wanted to let everyone know that we are - if you're looking for data and you're accustomed to using the American Fact Finder, please visit data.census.gov which is our new platform. Coordinator: And thank you. One moment for the first question. (Christine McBurry) your line's open. You may ask your question. (Christine McBurry): Hi I'm sorry I was a little late to the webinar, had some technical difficulties. But I track women's business ownership both employer and non-employer. And so that used to be sort of a category you could search the SBO data. Do you now go through the minority Hispanic, non-Hispanic and then select for gender or is there a simpler way to do that? Adam Grundy: Yes I believe the most simplest way to do that is to use the SBO data - the 2012 SBO data. With the new ABS that I mentioned I'm not sure if you chimed in for that part of it we will have detailed statistics towards the end of 2019... (Christine McBurry): Oh good. Adam Grundy: ...to focus on the categories that you're looking for. Yes if you have any other questions feel free to reach out. My email's right there on the screen. A big part of my job is answering data user questions, like,... (Christine McBurry): Fantastic. Adam Grundy: ...from you and others. So I'd be happy to help you and give you a walkthrough of the data. (Christine McBurry): Great, thank you. Adam Grundy: You're welcome. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Lee Stephens). Your line's open. (Lee Stephens): Hi. I'd like to know if in your surveys if non-employer firms are the same as sole proprietors? Adam Grundy: I don't believe so but... Lynda Lee: So we would have to get back to you on that in terms of the official definition. Adam Grundy: Yes. Lynda Lee: But off the top of my head I would say that non-employer firms - well they can... Adam Grundy: They have no paid employees by definition so - but we will give you the full definition if you give us an email. One of the email addresses that's on there or to myself Adam Grundy that's on the screen right now. So I'll get the clarification for that for you. (Lee Stephens): Thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Roger Huff). Your line's open. (Walter Huff): Yes my name's (Walter Huff). And I would like to know is there a specific way we can research through the census statewide home ownership rates of ethnic groups specifically, like, African-Americans, Hispanic Americans? Can we search home ownership rates for state to state? Adam Grundy: Not that I'm aware of. That would be in our housing data. But I don't believe that's one of the categories that is in our housing data. I can happily walk you through what we do have available within our, you know, the surveys of construction and housing at a later date if you would like to give me a call. (Walter Huff): Okay. Yes I print out quarterly home ownership rates nationwide and I was hoping that I could drill it down because I live in Colorado. And I was hoping I can drill it down and find what those home ownership rates are for Colorado. Chase Sawyer: Yes, so this is Chase Sawyer with the American Community Survey office. And if you want to go ahead and reach out to us we do have population profiles that go ahead and breakdown some of our data by minority groups and different ancestry groups. So if you wanted to reach out to us at acso.users.support at census.gov, I think we may be able to help walk you through some of those. Those won't be quarterly data, like, I think you're talking about with the other figures that you're looking at but we could probably help you get yearly figures I think. (Walter Huff): Okay can you repeat that email again. I'm sorry sir. Chase Sawyer: Yes, no that's fine I'm happy to. So it's acso as in American Community Survey Office and then .users. And so there's an s - U-S-E-R-S .support@census .gov. Yes and they can also - Caleb works on that staff so you can reach out to him as well if that's easier. Probably just copy it to make sure. (Walter Huff): Okay thank you so much. Chase Sawyer: Yes thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Joe Dart). Your line's open. (Joe Dart): Yes I want to know the most recent data I can get even going to December 2019 or should I just use the 2012 survey of business owners or if I wait until 2000, excuse me later this year, can I get the most recent which is 2017? Adam Grundy: So just to clarify your question you're looking for business owner data? (Joe Dart): Survey of business owners yes. Adam Grundy: Okay so the survey of business owners is being morphed as an annual business survey and yes the most recent data will be 2012 currently. But at the end of this year we'll have the 2017 ABS available for you. (Joe Dart): Okay very good, thank you. Adam Grundy: You're welcome. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Alan). Your line's open. (Alan): Hello can you hear me? Adam Grundy: Yes. (Alan): Yes hi. I'm sorry I came late to the webinar. I'm not able to access any of this in the screen - information. So I can't see any of the information that's being posted. So how can I gather a web address, contact numbers. I'm obviously on the US Census email list because I was alerted to this particular event but I can't see your screen. Adam Grundy: Sure. It doesn't seem to be any other connection issue that we can see on our end. We will have the Web site and everything else archived at a later date. If you - I guess you can't see our screen. But my direct line is 301-763-7592 if you want to give me a call after the webinar I can help you out with getting you the right information for that. Otherwise my email will be on the screen but hopefully you can see it at some point. (Alan): Okay that was quickly, 301-763-7592? Adam Grundy: That's correct sir. (Alan): All right thank you sir. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Kahn). Your line's open. (Kahn) your line's open. I'll move onto the next question. (Petty) your line's open. (Petty): Yes thank you very, very much. Actually the second caller - the second person who asked the question asked the same question that I had. So I do have that and then this other gentleman asked the second question that I had which was will we have an opportunity to review this again. And I'm pretty sure that you said yes. I just wanted to know how long will it be before we get a chance to access this webinar again. Thank you very much. Adam Grundy: Sure it'll be about one week roughly until it's on the census academy site. If you want to be alerted quicker than that you can send me an email to the address you see on the screen. This is Adam Grundy speaking. And I'll alert you as soon as I can. (Petty): Thank you Adam I really appreciate it. Adam Grundy: Not a problem. Coordinator: Thank you. And our next question is (Peter) your line's open. (Peter): Good afternoon, great presentation. Thank you so much. I was wondering if you can do a walk-through of how the map is produced with the data. Adam Grundy: So with Census Business Builder so there will actually a webinar at a later date. One of the things that's going to be posted to census academy by my colleague (Andy Hait). He's going to be going through a much more in depth walk through of Census Business Builder. But if you want something more immediate than that I believe it's going to be next week. But I'm happy to walk you through it over the phone or any other time at a later date. So we might not have enough time to do it today. (Peter): And this is Caleb correct? Adam Grundy: This is Adam actually. (Peter): Adam I'm sorry. Okay I will call you Adam. And follow up question would we be able to download the maps as PDFs or JPEGS or something? Adam Grundy: I believe so. There is a downloadable feature on the top right of your screen if you go to the Census Business Builder main page. I believe PDF is one of the options. (Peter): Perfect. Adam Grundy: You're welcome. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question's from (Lanata Robinson). Your line's open. (Lanata Robinson): Hi thanks for this presentation. What is the smallest geography level there will be available in the new ABS? Hello? Adam Grundy: Sorry one sec. (Lanata Robinson): Okay. Adam Grundy: I believe at least by state level but I'll have to get some clarification on that. I don't see that in my talking points unfortunately so... (Lanata Robinson): Okay. Adam Grundy: so, if you want to send me an email, I'd be happy to follow up with you to make sure that is accurate. (Lanata Robinson): Thank you. Coordinator: Thank you and our next question is from (Edward). Your line's open. (Edward): Yes. Will non-employer data be part of the ABS? Adam Grundy: No, unfortunately it's not in the Annual Business Survey. But there is another program called the Non-Employer Statistics which is released annually. I'm happy to direct you to that site otherwise you can type in NES. And, it should come right up on census.gov. Their most recent release was for 2016 data. (Edward): NES did you say? Adam Grundy: Yes non-employer statistics. (Edward): Okay thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Michael Pizazzio). Your line's open. (Michael Pizazzio): Yes I was wondering when it comes to, the like, assessing an area's, small business climate, which would be more representative would you want to use firm level data or establishment level data? And what kind of are the benefits of the two different? Adam Grundy: Yes so the annual business survey was the main one that I've been talking about is on a firm basis. So you won't actually get down to the establishment level for that one. There are some other surveys such as county business patterns that do go down to establishment level. That would be one of the ones I would recommend. And again I'm happy to walk you through that at a later date as well. (Michael Pizazzio): Okay thank you. Adam Grundy: You're welcome. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is (Angela Gordon). Your line's open. (Angela Gordon): My question was answered, thank you. Adam Grundy: Thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Marta). Your line's open. (Marta): Hi there thank you for the webinar. On Slide 13 the note said the data is available via API. Could you please tell me what API stands for? Adam Grundy: Application Program Interface. Sorry for the acronym. We love acronyms here at census. I apologize if I quickly ran over that one. (Marta): All good, thank you. All of the other acronyms were explained, thanks. Coordinator: Thank you. And our next question is from (Shaker). Your line's open. (Shaker): Hi. This is (Shaker). I have a data related question. So how can we pull (unintelligible) so you say 2012 is available, when the 2017 data is available, like is there a programmatically (unintelligible) accessing to know that, ok, the 2017 is now available and I can go and pull it? Adam Grundy: So, I believe your question is when is the data going to be next available how you can be alerted? (Shaker): Yes, like, how can we pull it, programatically? Is there an RSS feed kind of thing? Adam Grundy: Sure so usually when you go to census.gov you'll see a popup that gives you an option to subscribe with either your email address. You can select different categories within that description list that will alert you when those data are going to be released. (Shaker): Okay and programmatically when will we be able to know right, like, at the end of a (unintelligible) kind of something that says okay this particular (unintellible) data is available for that kind of thing or something? Adam Grundy: Only in our newsroom you can look at the tip sheets that tells you about new and upcoming programs. I would recommend checking that every two weeks. It comes out every other Friday. And that will tell you the upcoming programs they're going to be releasing and the date. (Shaker): Okay, thank you. Adam Grundy: You're welcome. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Robert Clenan). Your line's open. (Robert Clenan): Hi this is (Robert Clenan). We used the Small Business Owner's Survey from 2007 and 2012 to develop snapshots of minority and women owned businesses at the metro level. When the data comes out from the American Business Survey will that be comparable or compatible with the data from the previous year's surveys from the survey of business owners? That's one question. And then the second question is you may not know this will it be available at the metro level the way it was before and also the timing of the releases at national and then other levels of geography. Adam Grundy: Okay so I think it's a three-part question. (Robert Clenan): Right. Adam Grundy: The first part is will SBO be included into the ABS. That is yes. Pretty much at the same detail that you've been used to with the Survey of Business Owners with a few other data variables that have been thrown into the mix for your enhancement. The second part of your question can you remind me? (Robert Clenan): Metro level available or not and then timing. Adam Grundy: Okay so the timing is going to be annually. And the metro area level I believe somebody else had a question about the geography level. So I'm going to have to get back to you on that specific part about how far we can zero down to for the Annual Business Survey so... (Robert Clenan): So I should contact you Caleb? Adam Grundy: No this is Adam again. (Robert Clenan): Okay sorry, thanks. Adam Grundy: Not a problem. Coordinator: Thank you. Next question is (Javier). You line's open. Javier: Yes I have a question. If to hire and to provide services I need to be able to identify pockets of foreign-born population, speakers of foreign languages. What would you recommend to - what process would be the fastest and easiest to find that kind of data? Caleb Hopler: Ah yes thank you for your question. This is Caleb speaking. So I would recommend utilizing data from the American Community Survey. This specifically as I had mentioned earlier this is data where people are living is not necessarily where they are employed or working. But you will be able to see at various levels of geography whether from state level. You can even see it all the way down to block group level for foreign born populations. There's a couple of ways you could tackle it. You could look at by ancestry or where they were born or language spoken at home. There's different aspects you can utilize to kind of find that information to understand where to hire. So if you ever have any questions on that my colleague Chase had recommended an email line which is acso.users.support@census.gov. And my name Caleb Hopler. My email address is also on the screen right now. So either reach out... (Xavier): Yes I've got your phone number. Caleb Hopler: ...and we would love to be able to help you out there. (Xavier): Okay I really appreciate it, thank you. Caleb Hopler: Thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Demato). You line's open. (Demato): Hello. Adam Grundy: Yes we can hear you. (Demato): Oh hi. I was wondering - do you guys have an exact date of the release of the ABS? I believe I remember it being in December but do you have an exact date for that? Adam Grundy: I don't have an exact date handy but if you want to send me an email I can happily provide that quickly for you as soon as we know the exact date for that. (Demato): Okay and that's Adam right? Adam Grundy: Yes that is. (Demato): Okay, all right. Thank you so much. Adam Grundy: You're welcome. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (John Rodriguez). Your line's open. (John Rodriguez): Yes thank you for your presentation. It's excellent. I have some questions about how to understand - how the data is collected. And so for example you're making some changes now to consolidate this data from various other data. And, you know if you're adding columns things, like, that, because when you try to join a lot of different datasets how do we get the notes that we typically see on the Web site for this data? Is there something within the application that would highlight how the data might have changed? Adam Grundy: Sure. So on the Annual Business Survey page there is a section that says methodology. It will probably give you more than enough information about how that survey was conducted. And if you have any follow up questions there is also a branch line there as well as an email box I believe that will direct you to more information that might help you with your needs. (John Rodriguez): Okay I guess what I'm suggesting is within the application that you presented is it readily available and does it - when you're looking at that data is it congruent? Is it consistent across the sample that we're looking at? How do you know that? Caleb Hopler: Sure yes. So this Caleb. (John Rodriguez): Okay. Caleb Hopler: with ACSO, American Community Survey. So on the demographic side we do have information on the methodology there of how our survey is conducted which is at the household level. We have it through our methodology pages on census.gov/acs. We also have technical documentation for each of our data products. So just as an FYI with our variables sometimes over years a variable may change. And that will be noted in the table notes on data.census.gov or if you've used American Fact Finder. Also if you were to look at our Errata notes on the ACS page on the Web site that will also highlight if there's ever been any changes. But otherwise generally variables are congruent with each other year to year. (John Rodriguez): Okay. What I think kind of the subset of that question is. What I'd like to eventually do is, ok, if these are annual surveys can I take those and stack them within a day of this? And I guess I have to be cautious when I do that. Caleb Hopler: Yes, thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Dave Serato). Your line's open. (Dave Serato): Hi yes just a quick question. Do you guys have payroll cycle data? So something that would show say at a zip code level how many households in a zip code get paid on what day. Like what specific day of the year or what days of the year. It'd be very helpful for small both retail and restaurant businesses. Adam Grundy: Yes BLS would probably be your best bet for that one. (Dave Serato): I'm sorry what would? Adam Grundy: BLS.gov or business labor statistics... Caleb Hopler: Bureau... Adam Grundy: Bureau of Labor Statistics. Sorry I stumbled over my words a little bit there. Colleague is making fun of me (laughter). But yes Bureau of Labor Statistics. (Dave Serato): Thank you. Coordinator: Thank you and our next question is from (Carletta). You line's open. (Carletta): Yes my question is in reference to foreign born has been asked and answered. However I wanted to know do you have - would the data be able to capture industry salaries across variables? Say for instance across female gender as well as minority? Would we be able to see that information as far as salary? Caleb Hopler: Yes. So you're asking for income level data across other variables? (Carletta): That's correct. Caleb Hopler: Yes you will. So you'll be able to see two different types. We'll offer at the household income level across various variables as well as the individual level. (Carletta): Thank you. Caleb Hopler: You're welcome, thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. Our next question is from (Alex). Your line's open. (Alex): Hello. Congratulations on this webinar - a very educational one which empowers many, you know, users or followers to, you know, contribute to the US census data 2020. My question would be in order to support a (unintelligible) organization to gain valuable insight for the sector is there any data or survey that for example is (unintelligible) of organizations that's it I don't know it supports students how to reach their educational goals through organizational demographics, like, is there any data, like, where I don't know people voluntarily can contribute to empower other organizations to share information on the demographics of the work and the leadership of the organization? Thank you. (Andy Hait): So could you maybe clarify what you're asking. I'm not quite sure. This is (Andy Hait) speaking. Could you clarify your question again? (Alex): Right. Is there any data, like, an example that can be used for other non-profit organizations in order to be able to gain available insight for the sector? For example to start, like, an initiative to advance, like, diversity, equality and inclusion to philanthropy. And specifically to education, like, is there any survey that other organizations can follow up and can contribute together so they can empower other organizations to be able to contribute to the US Census 2020? (Andy Hait): Yes I don't think so. Let me - why don't' we go ahead and maybe you can contact us by email. The email address should be up on the screen. (Alex): All right. (Andy Hait): And we can try figure out what you're asking for. Yes that might be better, yes. (Alex): All right. Perfect. Thank you so much. Adam Grundy: Thank you. Coordinator: Thank you. One moment for the next question. (Ian Sun): (Ian Sun) minority business development agency. Coordinator: Sir your line's open. (Ian Sun): Hi how can we at the minority business development agency get a report on minority businesses broken down by congressional district? (Andy Hait): So this is (Andy Hait) again chiming in. The data on business ownership that would show minority owned businesses, women owned businesses, Hispanic, etc that data are only available down to the county and city level. They're not available down to zip code level. But you would be able to get that information down to the state, county and city level. Woman 1: We want, like, congressional district. (Ian Sun): What about, like, by congressional district? (Andy Hait): Yes we wouldn't publish - we currently don't publish the data down to congressional district levels. Now obviously for those congressional districts who's boundaries mirror other Census Bureau geographies, like, counties and states or counties and cities then yes by definition you'd have congressional district level data. For states, like, Maryland where the district boundaries certainly do not mirror regular geographies then no we wouldn't have the data by congressional district unfortunately, sorry. (Ian Sun): Can we buy that data? (Andy Hait): The data we have right now that would have it yes at the state, county and city level is all available for free. You certainly could contact us to see about doing a special tabulation by congressional district and someone could get back to you and give you an idea of number one whether it's even possible whether the methodology of the survey and the sample size would support publishing data down to that level. We'd probably would want to know whether you're interested in minority totals or whether you're looking at the different subcategories within minorities. If you wanted to break it out to Filipino business owners I could almost guarantee by congressional district we probably would say no. The data's just not thick enough to allow us to do that. But if you were interested in those broader categories it's a possibility. And for a special tab of course there would probably be a cost associated with that. But again you've got our contact information here on the slide. Send us an email and we can research that a little further for you. (Ian Sun): Okay thank you. (Andy Hait): You're welcome. Lynda Lee: At this moment we have reached the top of the hour. And we would like to accept approximately two to three more questions. Coordinator: Thank you and our next question is one moment please. (Minmoroi): My name is (Minmoroi). Coordinator: Sir your line's open. (Adam Grundy): Go ahead. (Minmoroi): My name is (Minmoroi). Yes I was curious to know that whether the data that will be available - the authenticity of the data because some people may not give the data right. Or some people may give it right. How would we (unintelligible) authenticate the data? (Andy Hait): So you're wondering when you can be alerted when the data's going to be released? Is that your question sir? (Minmoroi): Yes data that is released, the authenticity. (Andy Hait): Oh authenticity. So are you asking do we review the responses that people give to our data and then correct that data if we believe that it's incorrect when it comes to... (Minmoroi): Kind of yes because certain people may indulge in giving data which may not be authentic or we may later on find out that it's not authentic. So how do we track that? (Andy Hait): Right. So certainly when you think about the different statistics that we publish there are some data variables, some characteristics on our demographic side and on the business side where it's self-reported and that's what it is. We tabulate exactly what the person says. So on our business side where we might have information on whether a business is Hispanic owned or women owned or whatever, if someone filling out the form reports that the business is women owned but the person who signed the form is has a male name we would not edit the data. So it's self-reported. We do not do any edits. Other data variables we do a lot of edits on. So when a business reports their employment and their payroll and their sales and we look at that data we often will compare that employment and payroll and sales data for their business to other businesses like them or to data that they had reported to us in a prior program. And if the numbers look wrong there, then we will then contact that business and say look you're reporting annual payroll per employee that's three times the national average of every other business like you. Is that number really correct? Did you miss a digit? Did you, you know, add an extra zero things, like, that. We will definitely analyze and review the data. And that analysis not only includes those comparisons of their business to other businesses, like, them and their business over time, but we also do compare that data across federal agencies. So we would compare the number that we would be publishing in our economic programs to data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and by other agencies to again ensure that we are telling a consistent story and that if there's discrepancies that we have the right numbers. So yes we don't just simply take whatever everybody says as gospel. (Minmoroi): Awesome, thank you very much. I really appreciate your answer. (Andy Hait): You're welcome. Coordinator: And thank you. At this time I'm seeing no further questions. Lynda Lee: Thank you everyone for attending today's webinar. For any additional questions please use our contact information provided on this slide. And please visit our site census.gov to explore our data. This concludes today's session and have a great day. Coordinator: And thank you. This does conclude the call, you may disconnect your lines and thank you for your participation. 