 So today I'm going to be talking a little bit about micromobility data sharing and dynamic streets but I want to actually start with how we got to the present day and how the paradigm of shared services has really transformed how people are moving in cities. So if you fast forward now through 2019, it's clear that urban mobility is rapidly changing. We've really transitioned from mobility as a product that one buys— typically a car—to mobility as a service. And this is in large part due to the proliferation of these shared business models and the arrival of dockless bikes and scooters in 2017 and 2018 have really brought that message home. And the challenge is that when it comes to how these new services are changing transportation choices and our use of the public right-of-way, cities—and more broadly—public agencies are responsible for long-range planning and financing and they've largely been in the dark. In my opinion, the reason that this paradigm has to change is that the public sector primarily has the responsibility for ensuring that these services are safe, that they're equitable, and that they're sustainable. They are really the only entity that can hold private sector mobility companies accountable and so we need to understand how they're making progress or not making progress towards those goals and then to adjust policy accordingly. But on the flip side, we are also seeing some pretty concrete evidence that having access to services like Uber and Lyft and new shared mobility services are also materially impacting people's decisions to own a car. Based on statistically representative samples gathered by populous, in the Bay Area in 2018 we found that over 50% of people in the Bay Area now regularly use Uber and Lyft. And among them, 21% of those people do not own a car, have gotten rid of a car, or have postponed vehicle ownership with about 10% having shed a car or decided not to get a car. And then the other 10% having not had a car to begin with and haven't changed their decisions dramatically. So the question is: which is it? Do new mobility services like Uber and Lyft increase or decrease congestion? Do they improve or decrease efficiency? The answer is obviously both—I mean you are all researchers in this room—so you know that answers are not simple, they are complex. And at the end of the day, what we need is access to better data and a more interactive experience between public agencies and new mobility services in order to achieve progress towards these public goals that we all care about, including safety, efficiency, and equity. What's perhaps most exciting from a public agency perspective is that there has been a major shift in the past year, largely due to micromobility, whereby cities have started to decide that if new mobility companies want to operate in the public right-of-way—or perhaps more importantly—park in the public right-of-way, they need to share data. They will pay with data so that cities can measure progress towards goals. So, in many ways, cities are now viewing scooters as a testing ground for managing all things that move, from scooters back to Uber and Lyft and whatever new services may arrive in the future; sidewalk delivery robots, etc. And many cities are now requiring access to real-time data in addition to historic data from shared bikes, scooters for the purposes of monitoring compliance with policies such as vehicle fleet caps, incident management, as well as to harness this new information for long-range planning. So a key question is: what lies in the road ahead? With micromobility data sharing regulations, many cities are really paving the way to access better data about how we're using vehicles on our streets so that they can make important decisions about how to allocate curb space, price curb and street space, and ultimately deliver urban transportation that's freely moving, that's affordable, and clean. And then finally—for reasons we don't fully understand yet—micromobility attracts a broader segment of users. We'll commonly hear this anecdotally but we also have found in our data that you have more women, more minorities that are using these services than used previous shared bike share services and then when you dig into demographic data for typical bike to work data, also a different segment of users. We don't fully understand why but clearly they are attracting a broad segment of the population and I think it's an exciting opportunity for cities to rethink how much space we're allocating to these smaller modes. [Applause] 