 Good afternoon, friends. Welcome to this Webinar. So let’s get started. Today’s topic is focused on start-ups and small businesses and what are their… what are their unique characteristics, what sets them apart from the more organized businesses and what is a relevance of data management for them? Is it relevant? And if so, what they can do about it? So let’s get started without much ado. So, this is very interesting, you know, point of view. What we feel is that…and we talk from our own experience; we consider ourselves a small business from the SMB space. So if you look at start-ups and SMBs, they demonstrate a predominance of the E & the P energy, but this is based on the…doctor Adizes’s model of, you know, kind of understanding how organizations move through their life-cycle; from the way they start and until they get on to a stable growth and maybe even to a decline. So he talks about PAEI which is Production, Entrepreneurship, Administration and Integrative Energies. Now E & P are about the organizations moving rapidly to tap-growth opportunities, develop new products and services and acquire customers rapidly and at the same time, since they are start-ups and SMBs, so they are lean, fast and nimble as well. So, given this is a characteristic of start-ups and SMBs, most I would say, all right? So, obviously their teams are multi-tasking, they have one person doing multiple things; their teams are stretched, they are growing rapidly, so they don’t have the bandwidth and the capacity… they may not have the bandwidth and the capacity to setup a clean flow platform, where everything is running very smoothly from the… from the customer acquisition to customer retention. So, what we’ve seen with the start-ups and the SMBs is that their platforms evolve over time and many a times they are diverse pieces which they put together as they come; like they may acquire another company or they may onboard another team or they may just have a lot of manual pieces in the flow, right? Now, what we have seen is that in all this so-called chaos, email becomes a primary and the most stable platform to integrate people and operations. So email is used to handle exceptions which happened during the operations, quickly share information and knowledge with vendors, customers and other team members. So, these are some data points which will give you an idea about an SMB. So whether a large company or an SMB, what we’ve seen is that the number of messages in fact in an SMB might be more than in a larger company from average user… use perspective and of all this, IDC has mentioned that 60% of information in the email is business critical, which means proposals, invoices, designs, all kinds of things are exchanged on email. If this is a case for a larger company, for a smaller company the number may be higher. So… So, you may agree now that… now that I’ve placed this in front of you, you will agree that there is a heavy price to be paid by an SMB if their email is not preserved or well-managed. Now, what we are saying is that small, medium or large, including a tiny business, they resort to email to complete their business flows or to handle problems in their business flows. And so email is carrying a very critical workload and email by everybody. So… and the other fact of the matter is that smaller companies think that since they are under the radar, they may not be targeted, but it is in fact the other way around. So, the Small Business Trends study has shown that smaller businesses are more prone to attacks probably because the hackers feel that they are an easy target and they may not have set systems to secure their platforms and their networks. So… and if you notice, if you see the stats, they are very scary, only 14% are able to mitigate risks, such risks effectively, which means a lot of small businesses are running a big risk in terms of getting hacked, right? And they are not able to protect themselves from such attacks. So, let’s look at some possible, you know, costs or you can say, you know, drawbacks for an SMB if they neglect to manage their data. Now since everything is happening on email including communication with customers, vendors, investors or partners, so there is a loss of reputation if they go back to the, you know, partner and suggest that your mails were lost. So there’s a loss of reputation it has because it indicates that possibly this small business is not equipped to deal with the relationship, if they just cannot even maintain their emails properly. The other thing is that if your email is not well managed and it is, you know, splintered and fragmented, you would be low productive, so the SMB is bound to lose productivity because it cannot access all the information easily. Third is if there is a data theft and now small and start-ups, small businesses and start-ups carry a lot of classified information on email which could be business pitches, proposals, designs, new product ideas and if there is a theft happening there, all right? It can lead to, you know, loss of competitive advantage. Of course, financial loss due to fraud is another possibility because email carries payment information too. Now, in all these companies before they go on to larger platforms for customer service, they would be using email. So problem in the email system can again lead to poor quality of customer service or if they are to have, you know, mail boxes which are corrupted or they lose specific emails sent by customers, then it leads to the point number one. And similarly the… there could be loss of business continuity obviously if there is a loss of data. And the last but not the least, again it comes to this original thinking that ‘I am a small business, do I really care about compliance?’ well you do, okay? No matter how small you are, you do come under the radar for compliance if you are a regulated company. So if you are unable to meet compliance demands, that would be a big negative factor in the functioning of an SMB. So, what we are saying is here’s a start-up and a small business, they are not having very mature systems and platforms, so they resort to email, right? If they resort to email and they do not manage it well, ok? These are the possible costs which they have to incur, right? So what next? If you look… if you look ahead, right? What we are seeing is another big factor; this is… this is true of small, medium, tiny, large; the business critical email data is getting fragmented. So people dump data on laptops, mobiles, they download and keep in PST forms and it becomes harder and more time consuming to find the information when required. Migrations and all are a huge challenge for such companies. This is one big, big, big problem which is faced because of fragmentation. What we… what we’ve… what CNN Money is saying is that there's a 100,000 dollar loss per ransomware incident due to downtime. So imagine this kind of a penalty or loss to a small business, right? It is not really going to work out. So what are the top concerns with data management an SMB really has? One is privacy of data and the risk associated with that. SMBs feel that there is no good reason to preserve email. I send an email, you send me one, I have done the work, it’s over. So I don’t see any good reason to preserve it. Third, it’s becoming very costly to maintain and manage this ever growing email volume and it does grow. The SMBs also do not perceive any visible productivity of business benefit of preserving data. They feel ‘what am I going to do by keeping all these data? My job is done, my work is done, it’s over. I’ve serviced the customer and my work is over. The other thing is if they even think about managing this data, it becomes very complex. So just managing the complexity becomes a big challenge for them, all right? And of course the last which we just discussed is getting ready for regulation compliance. So, as an SMB, these six factors are your top concerns when it comes to managing or taking care of your data. Now, there are several options to backup email, we know a lot of customers who use several such options, but what we are proposing is one single method which kind of covers all the problems in one go, right? And which is cloud email archiving. We’re proposing this as a solution for SMBs. Now, what do SMBs get out of this? First, a lower TCO; so if you are looking at managing your data by yourself on an in-prem platform, or using another archival tool or any single server or whatever, you can forget about it. A cloud solution will give you a 30% lower TCO and you cannot afford to neglect this cost saving. Second, because you are keeping it on the cloud and you are getting all those features like guaranteed durability, security, RBAC and encryption, you are at a lower risk and a definitely a tighter security cover; again it helps you. It covers one of your big factors, or big concerns. On the cloud, you go OPEX, you pay as you go, you pay per use which leads you to flexibility; it helps you in terms of cash flow, it helps you in terms of planning, it helps you in upsizing, downsizing more easily because we’ve seen start-ups can grow very fast and sometimes they need to even shrink very fast. Now can an email archiving solution impact your revenue which is your topline? We feel yes, right? Now how is this possible? How can I accumulate email historically and use it to grow my revenue? So first thing is that knowledge is power, that is the way we look at it. So all this accumulated knowledge which is there in your… in your archival system, if it is available to the users and they can leverage this to take better decisions, faster decisions, more informed decisions or reuse information and templates and email content from the historical data, right? I think that it can help to grow your revenue as well because it will improve the business outcomes. What we feel is that just because some data is historical, this word historical can create some, you know, gap in thinking. We feel like just because some data is historical, it may not have any value, only what is current has value, where as that is not true. In fact historical accumulated data has a lot of trapped value or what we call locked value. So if you can get access to this more easily using E-discovery or any other mechanism, then we feel that it can impact your revenue growth too. So these are some of the other benefits of email archival, besides their core benefits of cost optimization, risk cover, revenue growth, productivity; and here we’re talking about continuity, reduction in complexity because there is no hardware at your end, your compliance is taken care of so you don’t have to worry about that, right? There is a higher productivity because users are on their own, and since the data is kept in this third-party or a third location, you are more flexible to move platforms. As a start-up or an SMB, we know that nimbleness and agility is very important to you. And if you need… if you really need to do that, if you want to be able to migrate your systems and setup new systems more easily, you don’t want to be… you don’t want to migrate your data all the time. That can lead to a lot of, you know, fragmentation, loss, disparate setups and then you will be finding it very difficult to pull out data from there. So we feel that keeping a data in a single central point, can give it a flexibility or portability. So here’s a poll I want to run for you. I’ll just explain to you before I start the poll. This’s the first time we are doing it. So if there is a glitch, please excuse. I am setting this disclaimer upfront to you, right? First, so we’re going to ask you what method do you currently deploy to safeguard your email data? We appreciate a feedback on this and depending on the responses I will even share some insights right away with you or in any case we’ll share this with you on our recording response to you. So that there is a… it’s a… there are five questions for you. You can choose multiple or any one—do you use in-prem hot backup server which means you have a mail server and you have backup server next to it which is backing up your mail data from the server. Second, second option, do you back up your data to tapes and drives? Third option, do you deploy any tool for end point backups which means backups of mobile devices and laptops? Fourth option, do you dump data from your clients which is in PST/EML format and then store them on the cloud or any secondary medium? And the last option is do you deploy automatic cloud email archiving? which is what we spoke about. So just let me run the poll for you. You will… you will get a panel on your screen using which you can select one or more options for this. Just a second please. Ok so we’re getting some responses here. I’ll just continue the poll for a few more seconds, maybe another 20-25 seconds to give you… to give you some time to think. It’s showing an interesting trend and I’ll talk about it once the poll is complete. Right, thank you so much. So what we have here is from the… we ran this poll for about 2 minutes, right? so we have 20% respondents saying that they use an in-premise hot backup server to keep a backup of their mail server; 40% of the respondents are talking about an in-premise backup on tapes and the disk drives which is a very large number in my view; so which means that 40% of the companies are taking backups on tapes and drives. 20% of them are taking end point backups and another 20% have suggested that they are doing automatic cloud email archiving. So, and the… and amongst the audience which is there we’ve had about 70% people who voted which is a fairly decent number. So, given… given the situation, it is clear that we still have companies out there and majority of them, 40% I would count as a majority or if you look at it, 40, 20, 20, that is 80% together are using hot backup server, backup on tape and drives and end point backups; which means they are not able to leverage all the benefits we spoke about in terms of discovery, in terms of being compliance-ready or in terms of finding information quickly, right? Which is a concern area I would say. So let’s get on. So what I would… what I would like to admit is that we had plan for two polls. I’ve missed the first one, so I am going to catch up on that with a couple of slides later and that’s an interesting one too and then we will discuss that as well. Right now I will just move on. So we shared benefits of cloud email archival, which is in terms of risk, cost, revenue, productivity, accessibility and other things. But our engagements and our conversations with SMBs have thrown up six very good questions I would say which kind of have prompted us to add this into this Webinar and highlight the solutions to those. So an SMB typically will ask that I am not from a regulated space. So I am not a BFSI, I am not a Fintic, I am not an NBFC, but I am maybe a manufacturing or some such SMB or a small law firm or any such thing. So I am not really regulated. Do I still need to archive email? So we did speak about this but it’s worth mentioning again, right? So, besides regulation compliance, so you can come across, in your organization you may come across a situation like this: one is the fragmentation of information which means that when you need the info you really can’t get it. So think of yourself, if you are a law firm or a knowledge management company and if… we are saying 70% of your information is travelling on email and then it is all fragmented, how does it help you, right? So you need to be able to get it all in one place. So, whether you are regulated or not, this is one big reason to archive email in a single, central repository. Second, it’s a jungle; your mobiles, your laptops, your desktops, viruses—all kinds of things are happening and like we’ve said, you do not have… you may not have a very well-oiled machinery or platform to handle your user onboarding, user attrition, partner onboarding, things like that. So you may be prone to data loss, theft, device corruption or complete break down as well. That’s another big reason why your data should be kept in a central repository even before it is delivered to the end user. Third, there’s so much tacit knowledge in the email, that even your historical accumulated data can carry tons and tons of golden information which should you want to leverage to grow your revenue and help your users perform better. And of course the fourth one is if you do come across a tampering or a fraud case, then you might want to have the original data in its originality, un-tampered and guaranteed that it is not been tampered with so which you can leverage for you legal cases or whatever. So, some data points again. The 92% of the IT leaders see email as a common means of even storing information. We’ve seen this when people don’t know where to save information, they just simply send an email to themselves with an attachment and they say ‘oh, now my data is safe. It’s in my mail box.’ Now, is it safe? That’s a question; we’ve tried to answer that in the earlier part of the deck, all right? so if you download the email data to your laptop, it’s no more on the email server as such, like if you delete a mail from the inbox or somebody hacks into your mail box and deletes it, it’s no more safe. So it’s safer from the laptop, it may have gone from your laptop into your mailbox, but it is coming back to your laptop in some other form. Second, so if email is being, you know, used to store and shape critical information, imagine what a failure in that can do. So, 62% of the IT leaders are saying that offline mail stores are being frequently used which compounds the risk. We discussed this too. Now, some start-ups or very small companies have come to us and said that ‘hey, we’re just getting started and our operations are not even stream lined, we don’t even have enough customers. So why should we bother with mail preservation? Why don’t we just use email for what it’s worth? I don’t have time to do all this preservation business.’ Now what we are saying is in fact in the early stages you are very fragile and it is absolutely the right time to start securing your data because at that time, you are possibly using only one platform or one operating platform which is email. There’s no other platform you may be using besides maybe a development system. You may not have an ERP, you may even not have an accounting system and you might be using excel sheets for that which again you are transporting on email. So, keeping all this secure early on… and you may need it at a later time, I think it’s very critical. A common objection we come across that ‘hey, I’m using G-Suite or O365 or some other cloud platform; I have a large mailbox allocation. So I don’t think I’ll ever run out of space.’ So what we are saying is hey, it’s not just space that you’re doing this for. You’re not doing it for space because we know that cloud platforms… cloud email platforms out there are giving you almost unlimited space or so to say. 30 GB, 150 GB if you get, I mean it’s a huge amount of storage possible. We know that 4 GB is your data accumulated in a year. So, you know, 30 GB you will be storing data for about 7 years, right? And if you are a little more conservative you could store your 10 years also in a bit in 30 GB. But what we are saying is it’s just not about storage. We discussed just a couple of slides back to use cases related to destruction of data, virus attacks, people leaving with their data, all right? So what we feel is that no matter which platform you use and how much storage you have on that, keeping your mail data in a separate physical location away from your current mailing platform will actually avoid vendor lock-in. so, in future if you need to do a migration of your mail platform, you can do it without data migration. So what we feel is that no matter what platform you use, you should still archive email to a separate third party location, also prevents vendor lock in. Another objection by start-ups and SMBs is that ‘we take end point backups to the cloud; what it ensures is that my desktops…the PSTs on my desktops are preserved. Do we still need archival?’ yes, static backups in the form of PSTs don’t help. You can’t search, you can’t recover a file. It’s actually just machine language files for you, not really human readable. So you are not able to leverage all this data if required. So what we are saying is if you can store it on a cloud email archiving platform, using e-discovery you can go back and search through those old mails when required and how it improves productivity, we’ve discussed a few. You can probably read that from the link below on how E-discovery is fast replacing the traditional search. That is if you have the search available. So, another objection—the use of in-prem server, it could be Exchange or anything, and they backup the mail store which is the first answer, the first answer to the first poll question that… which said that 20% of the customers or the respondents say that they are taking their data on a hot mail server which is a stand-by mail server to, you know, backup the mail data. But listen, archival is not synonymous with backup, right? So we understand that backup is a snapshot. So, I take a backup at 12 midnight and I take a backup on the next day after 24 hours, at midnight again. Now in between the two backups, I could have received some mail and the user could have deleted those mails. So I have no track of those and this again leads to loss of information. So please understand that backups and archival are not the same. Here is a very good question as regards privacy. So a lot of people come back and say that ‘hey, you are taking all the data into the cloud; but how am I assured, because my email is very dear to me and it’s classified and private, that nobody is looking into it?’ So yes, you are leveraging a cloud; yes, you are storing data in an environment which is not very close to you, although you have full access to it. There are couple of ways this works. One is the vendor will sign an NDA with you and give you an SLA stating very clearly that none of their team or they don’t have the capability to look into your data physically, all right? They may look at the Meta data at the most for debugging or mail-trace. But in case you don’t trust that also, then what we propose you do is you go for a SaaS still, but go for a dedicated SaaS, which means that you ask the vendor to setup a private setup for you where you hold the keys to the data, the encryption keys they are called and you let the vendor manage the SaaS for you. So you’re getting the benefits of a SaaS, at the same time it’s dedicated for you. So there is a good blog we’ve written which you could, you know, kind of read and the link is provided below. By the way, this deck will be sent to you; alternatively you can download it from the Handouts tab, and this link will be available to you in the deck. So before I proceed beyond this thing, I would like to run the poll which I missed earlier, right? So I’ll just do that right now. Give me a minute. So this poll is a small set of questions to ask you what are your top concerns as an SMB. Again it’s a multiple choice. You can choose more than one. I am just about to launch the poll. Right. Thank you so much for filling this in. let’s run through this data and see what insights do we have. So, 50% of the respondents have said that privacy of data and the risk associated with that is a big concern. 25% people have said that getting ready for regulation compliance is the concern which brings me to the inference that possibly 25% of the respondents are regulated companies. Another 50% have said that it’s very costly to manage and maintain this ever growing volume of data; and the fourth one is…. Oh, 50%, now this is a little surprising, all right? 50% have said that there is no visible gain of business benefit of preserving email data. I am hoping that this concern is taken care of by what we have spoken about so far. In a way it is… this concern is highlighted as six questions which we just covered in the … in this last part of the presentation, ok? And to help you, we’ll just… since this is come up, it prompts me that we should probably go through it once more very quickly. First, besides regulation compliance where 25% have said that they need to be ready for regulation compliance, but to address the concerns of the other 50%, or 50% who assume that there is no visible gain—think about fragmentation, think about data loss, think about finding undiscovered information which are nuggets of, you know, diamonds in your accumulated information; think about tampering in case of a litigation, what will you do, right? Think about preserving from an early time, so in case you ever need data and which you will need for the reasons I just mentioned, you may want to be sure that your data is preserved in a central repository. Even though you are using a cloud email platform and you feel like you’ll never run out of storage, storing data separately has at least seven benefits which we have documented in this blog below, right? One of the biggest things is that it prevents vendor lock-in, one of the core benefits of storing data in another third neutral location. Then you can shift from Exchange to Lotus or Lotus to Office365 or go to G-Suite or come to Mithi Skyconnect, it doesn’t really matter. As long as your data is in a central point, it will keep you safe. Even though you take end point backups, it’s not enough because when it comes to discovering information, and we feel that discovery should not be reactive. So one of our studies has shown that at least in India, this is a case that most companies are preserving data for one reason. They say that whenever we need, or whenever there is an investigation or whenever there is a problem, I will go and look at that… look at my old data and pull out what I need. However, what we have found with the…with our western peers is that they are more proactive when it comes to discovering information. In fact on a regular basis, they run queries on accumulated email and look for breaches proactively, look for knowledge nuggets, look for patterns of usage and try and use business analytics and BI tools to gain insights into what the users are doing, the sentiment and stuff like that. So we feel that just preserving files for the sake of it or for the notional benefit of storing may not be good enough. You might want to look at how I can leverage this information which is there with me. We discussed this—backup not equal to archival and we also shared with you that if security and privacy is a big concern, you have the option to bring your own key. So what we are proposing before I get into the Q&A, couple of slides, what we are proposing is this cloud email archival solution which I spoke about can well be Vaultastic; it is our, you know, industry leading platform; it is growing at 500% year on year from the time we launched it, 2 years ago and it’s a great platform on the AWS cloud, multi-region, so you have a choice of data residency as well, depending on which country you are from. For India, we have an India region, so you don’t have to worry about data residency. So you can preserve your data on the cloud here. How it works is we follow the best practices, what it means is that use SaaS, so there is zero headache for you; we provide you guarantees by an SLA, so it’s scalable, private and secure; it is a separate operational infrastructure than what you are using, doesn’t matter what you are using, this is still a separate one. So all your data is kept in a separate location which is safer and prevents you from vendor lock-in. we give you an e-discovery platform for discovery, retrieval and governance and finally I know that we are keeping all your data for you on our cloud, so we are the custodians but not the owners and to prove that we have got a very strong data exit policy in place which you can leverage to pull out all your data if you ever need to. Let’s say you’ve decided to exit from our platform, no worries. This is how it works. So, from the original mail platform, mails are journaled into archival into the Vaultastic platform; indexed, search ready, every mail is online for anytime. So you log in and you can find any mail of any period in a few seconds using the e-discovery. And these are all the tools which you see on the right side, right? These are some of our marky customers who are leveraging Vaultastic for their gains. We have ensured that we are good on trust and compliance which means that we get our solutions reviewed by AWS regularly; they have a program which is called Well-Architected for AWS. We are hosted on the AWS platform in total, so we leverage all the key services they have. Our consumers or customers rate us some where near 4.8 and we are very proud of that. We have ensured that we are in line with HIPAA guidelines, IRDAI guidelines, CSA STAR guidelines and GDPR guidelines for privacy and data security. I think this should give you enough confidence; if not, then there is another one, all our customers or most of them, at least the large ones, they run regular VAPT scans in addition to what we do on the setup. And these reports are published to us; we fix those vulnerabilities whatever are found in any and it improves for all the customer base. So I think that should give you some confidence on the solution. We work with so many and more mail platforms and ingest email from them. We are available online via distributors or via system integrators. This are some of our products. Right, so I thank you very much for joining this Webinar and hope you enjoyed it. If you like, you have the option to write to me directly. You will find my email id here at the base or you can write into our sales team, whatever suits you. I would be very happy to respond to any of your queries if you are not been able to ask them in the session here. So please reach out to me directly, not a problem. It was a pleasure having you. Have a good day ahead. 