 Despite what the talking heads on the boobtube might tell you, Americans are NOT in favor of an Assault Weapons Ban. Welcome back to the gun collective, my name is Jon Patton. And the FIGHT for gun rights continues. For the couple decades, more and more Americans have been coming to their senses and pulling their support for a ban on freedom. According to Gallup polls, since the year 2000 when 59 percent of the country supported a ban, that number slowly decreased down to 36 percent in 2016. The following year, in October of 2017, Gallup said that the United States were split on supporting an all out ban on what they refer to as "Assault Weapons". This data was actually published 16 days after the attack in Las Vegas which we can only assume is the reasoning for that sudden rise in support. There are a ton of factors that go into that but the really interesting thing is that only a year later, the numbers had almost normalized again. In October of 2018, the number of Americans in support of a ban was 40 percent while the number against such a ban were 57... the remaining 3 percent were not reported. If we take a look at this from a couple different angles we start to see some confirmation of what some of you might have already suspected. In that same polling Gallup collected other info including political party. As it turns out, with the latest data, that only 56 percent of democrats support such a ban, with 38 percent of independents and 25 percent of republicans in favor as well. Think about that for a second. If only a small amount over half of democrats support a ban, perhaps we are not fighting as democrats vs republicans like many folks think... we are fighting against an entirely different breed. One of the other points they published was the opinion of folks that have guns in their household. As it turns out 46 percent of households without guns are in favor of a ban and 33 percent of households WITH guns also support a ban. What comes to mind are the folks that say things like I have a gun but... or I know a guy with a gun and he totally uh... Yeah, that kind of garbage. Its honestly something that I don't think we are prepared for. We have to start understanding that, at least according to this information, we are not just fighting a political party. We are not just fighting someone who has never held a gun and is blind to the reality, we are not just fighting someone who has a fundamental hatred for the foundation of our nation, we are fighting all of that. I'm curious though, what do you think about this? What steps can we be taking to educate and empower gun owners and non gun owners alike? Drop your thoughts down in the comments below. I've also included a link in the description so you guys can head over and check it out for yourselves and while you're down there don't forget to get subscribed and hit the bell to be notified when we release new videos. I want you guys to know that I really do appreciate you watching and being part of the conversation. As always, thanks for watching. We'll see you soon. 