 Welcome to another MedCram COVID-19 update. Here in the United States we have a slight   increase in the daily new cases nationally, daily  deaths are still on the decline at this point.   In the United Kingdom, daily  cases are still on the rise   whereas daily new deaths in the United Kingdom  are still relatively small. In Canada, the daily   new cases seem to have reached a peak. We'll have  to see here what direction it goes with more time,  and while there's been some recent activity in  terms of daily new deaths in Canada, this may be   on the way down. In Brazil the daily new case rate  seems to be going down here every single week, and   we're seeing a similar trend as well in terms  of daily new deaths in Brazil, and if we look at   Finland, which we looked at a number of months  ago in terms of their hydrotherapy and their   proclivity to use saunas, we can see here that  the number of daily new cases is on the rise, but there's really been a paucity of actual  deaths on a daily basis here in Finland. If we try to compare that to Sweden, we see  here that the daily new cases are on the rise, but in terms of the daily deaths in  Sweden, there really hasn't been an   increase since August 1st, so that's  very encouraging news for Sweden.  So the question always is, what's the point  if the cases are going up, but the deaths   aren't going up? And well of course there's a lot  of real estate between cases and deaths, right? There's hospitalizations, morbidity, etc. and so for  that, we go to a website that's actually keeping   track of this, at least in the United Kingdom, where  we can see since the pandemic started what's going   on with testing and with cases, and clearly  you can see here that there is just a dramatic -- more than three or even four-fold -- increase  in not only the capacity of PCR testing, but also in PCR tests that have been actually  processed, and so because of that, you can see here   it's no surprise that the amount of cases  has gone up, because the testing has gone up. But you may want to notice something here. These  are linear y-axes going from zero at the bottom   to one hundred thousand, two hundred thousand, three hundred thousand. Here, we have cases   in the very similar type of progression, right?  It's not logarithmic and clearly you can see here   that the amount of testing has linearly increased,  whereas here on this graph the amount of cases has,   it seems, non-linearly or maybe even exponentially  increased. And so while I think it's reasonable   to say that the amount of cases that we're having  now at least in Europe and maybe even just the UK,   the reason why these cases have gone up in  comparison to the peak that we had in May   is probably a result of increased testing, but  we can't say that the week-over-week increase   here in the last month or two is just because  of that testing. That would be my hypothesis. Now if we go through and look and see what's  going on here in terms of healthcare, here we   have hospitalizations that are occurring in the  beginning around April and May. You can see very   very high and then it's dropped off considerably  and only now is it starting to pick up. So there   has been an increase in hospitalizations, although  nowhere near the height that we saw back in April   and May in the United Kingdom, and fortunately  patients in ventilator beds and patients being   admitted to the hospital -- so again this gray bar  is the number of patients total that are in the   hospital, the dark blue bar are the patients that  are being admitted to the hospital, and then this   lighter blue are the patients in ventilator beds,  and of course these are all patients with COVID-19.   Over here on the side we see the deaths, and these  here are deaths within 28 days of a positive test, so of course there's going to be some patients  which have deaths that are not related to COVID-19,   but nevertheless we wouldn't expect those to  change dramatically here since April, and here's   a deeper dive into the number of patients that are  being admitted from the different countries that   make up the United Kingdom, and you can see here  that the majority of these cases are in England,   and of course that also goes for the deaths, most  of them seem to be in England. I wanted to talk   about an interesting development that really has  some unknown and potential insights into coming up   with therapeutic options, and that is this paper  that was published in Science called "Free fatty   acid binding pocket in the locked structure  of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein." So what they're   saying basically in this article is that there's a  fatty acid called linoleic acid which actually is   an essential fatty acid. It's an essential  fatty acid that also happens to be an omega-6   fatty acid, and apparently what they found is that  there are binding sites on the spike protein. Spike   protein is part of the SARS-CoV-2 outer layer  which binds to the ACE-2 receptor on human cells, and so what they find is that if the linoleic acid  binds to the spike protein at particular areas, it causes the confirmation of that spike protein  to be in what they call a "tight configuration," and essentially what that does is it prevents, in  some fashion, the binding of that spike protein   to the ACE-2 receptor. They say here in the abstract  that their 2.85 angstrom cryo electron microscopy   structure of SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein  reveals that the receptor binding domains -- or the   RBDs -- tightly bind the essential free fatty acid  linoleic acid or LA in three composite binding   pockets. The pockets also appeared to be present  in the highly pathogenic coronavirus's SARS-CoV   and MERS-CoV. LA binding stabilizes the  locked S conformation giving rise to reduced   ACE2 interactions in vitro. In human cells  LA supplementation synergizes with the   COVID-19 drug Remdesivir, suppressing SARS-CoV-2 replication, as well. So here you can see where   this binding site is in the spike protein, and you  can see that there's a pocket, and when that binds, it locks the protein into a conformation that does  not really encourage binding to the ACE2 receptor. hHere's a closer look at that, and we can see here  the chemical structure of linoleic acid; it's known   as an omega-6 fatty acid because if you count from  the end which is the omega end of the alphabet and   you count six carbons in one two three four  five six, you'll get the first double bond.  And here's another view of those trimers, so  these trimers or three proteins come together   in this S protein, and you can see here the  linoleic acid, which is this yellow structure here   here and here, and what that does is it causes a  tight conformation of this protein as opposed to   when they're not being bound. It's a much more open  conformation. It's this loose and open conformation   that can bind the ACE2 receptor better in this  situation. It does not bind the ACE2 receptor   as well and the thought there is that might  mitigate infectivity of COVID-19 or SARS-CoV-2. So before you feel the need to increase your  dietary intake of linoleic acid, there actually   is a nutritional quandary as published a couple  years ago in this paper that was published online   in healthcare. As it turns out, apparently over the  course of the last century there's been a 20-fold   increase in the consumption of vegetable oils  resulting both from their increased availability   and from recommendations to consume these oils  in a way of lowering the risks of coronary artery   disease from elevated cholesterol, and apparently  this has reached a total of about six percent   which is pretty high of total dietary energy.  The article goes on to say that there's been   meta-analyses which have disagreed  about the role of dietary linoleic acid   in atherosclerosis, and recent publications  indicate that linoleic acid's reduction of   blood cholesterol levels does not predict its  effect on the development of atherosclerosis. Now because linoleic acid is a precursor to  arachidonic acid, which is involved in inflammation,   there is concern that there may be detrimental  effects on elevated dietary linoleic acid. It's   interesting to note that in a recent survey  of geographic areas around the world that have   longevity, that was actually studied by National  Geographic, the five areas that met the criteria of   longevity, all of them as listed here had dietary  intakes of linoleic acid that were actually below   the current intakes in the United States. Now to  be fair, the authors of this study aren't really   suggesting that we increase our dietary intake of  linoleic acid but rather that this novel approach   may suggest itself in terms of looking for  therapeutic options that could interact with these   binding places. We shall see as time moves forward.  In other news, we are looking at vaccination, and   this time the vaccine trial that is sponsored  by Johnson & Johnson has just announced that their   study has been paused due to unexplained  illness in one of the study's participants.   Now there are certain rules that will trip a  potential pausing that would shut down the study   temporarily, so that they could figure out whether  or not this illness was the result of the vaccine. Remember now that this is a 60,000 patient  clinical trial, so with that many patients in   the trial you're bound to get somebody coming  down with some severe illness -- that's just   the way things are. Think about that: that's about  the number of people that would come to a very   large baseball game or football game. The question  though is was it the result of the vaccine or was   it a result of just chance? And so epidemiologists  and clinicians are trained to look at that. I'm   sure there will be unblinding of that patient to  see whether or not they got the placebo or whether   or not they actually got the vaccine, and then make  a determination about whether or not the chances   of something like this happening and whether  or not the biological aspects of it make sense. And this should be somewhat encouraging, because  while it's not a good thing to have someone have   a bad response in a study like this, we don't know  whether or not it was caused by the vaccine yet. It is reassuring to know that these companies  are undergoing and continuing with the same   safety protocols, and we will just have  to wait and see exactly what happens.   And in terms of some good news, here in  California the Los Angeles Times is reporting   that Californians hospitalized with COVID-19 is at  their lowest levels in six months, and that is some   good news after a very beleaguering fire season  here over the last couple of months. So with that   we'll wrap things up here. Don't forget to check  us out on MedCram.com; we have excellent courses on   EXG interpretation, CBC blood test interpretation, and also basic metabolic panel interpretation, this, and many other lectures including our COVID  updates, commercial free. Thanks for joining us. 