 Historically, in fashion and retail, sustainability and business have been opposed because a brand can only make more money when they produce more product. They're inherently incentivized to sell two shirts instead of one.  We see a much more intelligent way to utilize the investment that goes into one garment.  Eon is an Internet of Things platform that enables the creation of connected products end to end. Our focus in partnership with Microsoft has really been around enabling the creation of billions of connected products at scale. The relationship between the brand and the customer ends the moment that product is sold, which is really just the beginning of the product's lifecycle and the brand experience. The connected product is about enabling that relationship to continue. Our vision at Eon is a model where a brand can monetize a product again and again, such that that product is more valuable the more circular it's lifecycle becomes.  Eon introduces a language for those connected products. To speak, that language is called the CircularID Protocol. That garment can then communicate with the brands to the customers, to recyclers, and re-sellers so we can ensure that that garment never gets lost again.  The backend side, we're collecting all that engagement and data and drawing analysis on that and using that to inform business decision-making.  The idea behind our work at Eon is very simple while identifying a product. When you identify a product, you can treat it as an asset and you can manage it across its lifecycle.  But that can only happen if garments have the ability to communicate exactly what that garment is, where it came from, and who made it.  A lot of this information brands already have today, it's just lost in its association to its product. Eon's platform enables the creation of that digital identity. Then we also enable the association of that data to the product via any physical identifier, which means getting a QR code embedded in the product, getting an RFID tag embedded in the product.  We capture all events for every product throughout its entire lifecycle. That's a lot of data that is required to not only be secure, but also be correct. We use a number of services from Microsoft Azure. It allows us to focus on building our applications and provide value to our clients and customers.  We have only just begun on this journey and we are looking for brands, and partners, and industry to join us and create this connect within circular feature for commerce. [MUSIC] 