 We will show how to create MQTT connection between public MQTT broker and two MQTT clients. Clients in our case will be inVIEW SCADA Platform(Client1) and MQTT Client(Client2) which is created in "MQTTBox" free simulator. Public MQTT Broker, in our example, will use the following values. Broker port: 1883, Broker address: iot.eclipse.org inVIEW SCADA Platform will be Client1. We need to create a connection to MQTT Broker and variables(Topics) for sending and receiving messages. First login to inVIEW SCADA Platform, go to Configurator page and select Connections tab. To add a new Connection, click the "Add" button. Add connection popup is shown. From the drop-down menu, select MQTTDriver. Type desired values for Connection name (TestMQTT) and Refresh interval (1000). For Broker Address, we will use: iot.eclipse.org and Broker Port: 1883 Type desired values for Will Topic (WT) and Will Message (WM). Username and Password are not needed MQTT broker is public. Click on the "Save" button to add a connection. If Connection is successfully created, a new row with connection parameters will be shown on the screen. In our case, that is "TestMQTT" row. To update and edit connection, click on "Update" button. The next step is creating variables that will be used like Topics in our communication between MQTT broker and inVIEW SCADA Platform. Select Variables Tab and from drop-down menu "Connection" select previously created MQTT connection (TestMQTT). Click "Add MQTT variable" to add new variable(Topic). Popup "Add MQTT variable" is shown. Insert a value in field "MQTT Topic", this value will be used like Topic name. For example, we added two variables(Topics) with these names: Variable1 (type: String) and Variable2 (type:Boolean). With "MQTTBox" simulator, we will create MQTT Client(Client2) which can send and receive(publish and subscribe) values to Topics on MQTT Broker. Click on "Create MQTT Client" to create new connection for MQTT Client. Type the desired value for MQTT Client Name, for the protocol select mqtt/tcp. The Host value (iot.eclipse.org:1883) is Broker address: iot.eclipse.org and Broker port: 1883 Click the "Save" button to save changes. The connection between MQTT Client and MQTT Broker is established when the button in the top menu is green. Type variable name(Topic name) in "Topic to subscribe" field to see published values of variable(topic). We will do this for both variables(topics): Variable1 and Variable2. The name of the variables(Topics) is the same as variables(Topics) created in inVIEW SCADA Platform. If one of the clients send(publish) a message to the topic, the other client will be able to receive(subscribe) the message. Pay attention Topic name is case sensitive. To publish value on MQTT Broker type variable name(Topic name) in "Topic to publish" field and insert the desired value in the "Payload" field and click on "Publish" button. The Value is sent to MQTT Broker, now clients(inVIEW SCADA Platform and MQTT Client) can see a value(message) of the topic. We will publish values for each variable(Topic). Now let's check topic values on inVIEW Platform. Go to Variables Live Values page, select your Connection (TestMQTT) and click the "Start" button. Variable2 type is Boolean if we send a value which is not 0 or 1 error message will appear on the inVIEW SCADA Platform screen (Wrong value). For Variable1 whose type is a string, we can add text like a Topic value. The Variable(topic) value can also be changed from the inVIEW SCADA Platform. Select the variable(topic) and click on the "Change" button, the popup window "Change live value" will appear on the screen. Type desired value and click the "Save" button. The new value is sent to the MQTT Broker, and clients can see it. Check the variable(topic) value on the "Variables Live Values" screen and subscribed variable(topic) value in MQTTBox software to see the newly inserted value. 