 In this first episode we cover the role of a SCADA/IoT platform in a context of standardization In several fields: Buildings, Industry, Energy, Infrastructures, Transportation and Environment, many systems allow operations and maintenance of installations. These systems respond to different issues: new user needs, efficiency and production requirements, regulatory constraints, emergence of new technologies and so on. For exemple Building management must become smarter to optimize consumption and achieve regulatory goals. It must also response to new user request while ensuring overall profitability. new user request while ensuring overall profitability. This therefore requires taking into account all the dimensions of a building and the different systems used from design to operation and maintenance.  The Industry must manage production as efficiently as possible with a need to increase the speed and quality of production.  but also to be able to adapt quickly to changes imposed by the markets. To do this it relies on many systems whose interoperability is imperative. In addition the number of data made available by these systems is constantly increasing due to the deployment of networks and new technologies such as the Internet Of Things for example. All these systems can only be effective if they are centraly supervized and optimized. The multiplication of systems raises the question of interoperability: How do systems interconnect with each others in order to be as efficient as possible? This question is even more important for the platforms supervizing installations. since by definition these platforms connect to various systems. Indeed, the ability of a monitoring platform to seamlessly integrate different systems is essential to effectively build its application. It's also used to maintain installations in operational condition over time. Such a platfom must be able to adapt to changes while minimizing the impact of the entire installation in terms of configuration and operation. The interoperability of the supervizion plattform with the others systems is therefore at 2 levels: In the design phase to connect different systems while minimizing integration time and the risk of errors In the operation phase to exchange data with various systems facilitating maintenance during the life of the installation. Most installations or production lines meet standards implemented through well established procedures. Similarly to interface with the various systems the supervision must have he tools to standardize the design development and run time of a project. Modeling promotes the interoperability of the supervision platform with the various system by creating models of reusable generic objects and the possibility of aggregating configuration from various systems.    