 welcome back to another episode of   IOT with smartphones, or if you will Cumulocity hacks. In this video you will see how to use the Accelerometer to find out  if your smartphone is crashing and how to define rules to automate processes and decisions. I'd recommend watching the video called IOT with smartphones part 2 on this channel. now here's the scenario: let's imagine your smartphone falls down  onto the ground. Most likely it will crash and  you won't be available anymore? how could you let your friends know? coming back to the accelerometer example from the previous video I admit speaking about acceleration  is kind of confusing. If you put your smartphone flat on the table  you don't accelerate it at all, right? however, there's still an amplitude on the z-axes whereas x and y axes equals zero that is the reason why some experts prefer to  speak about forces rather than acceleration, because as you can see here this amplitude is minus 1g or if you flip the phone it equals 1 g which is exactly the force of gravity. The Accelerometer in a smartphone on a perfectly  even table measures exactly zero, zero, one. You might be familiar with some very useful apps which analyze exactly these three values  of the Accelerometer, commonly known as water bottle apps. These apps measure and calculate the  precise value other than this optimum and visualize them in some water bubble like images. For simplicity reasons you may switch off the other data points and focus on the z axes which is affected by gravity. what happens if you throw your smartphone in the air? From the moment the smartphone leaves your hand there's no force which keeps gravity  from affecting the phone, thus gravity equals zero. By the way, that's true for all axes and  likewise applies for the free fall. If you define "all axes equals zero" to be a pattern you can commercially assume, whenever a smartphone shows this pattern  in a period of time that the phone is falling down. The hardest part ever starts, when the falling part ends. Once the phone crashed down on to the ground, you are most likely not able to tell your friends that you cannot be reached until you bought a new one. what you can do, though, is to let your IoT platform recognize this pattern and automate an appropriate action two simple steps first recognize the pattern Click on the three dots right to the data point. Save it to the library. Cick on the three dots again and create a smart rule  which will be triggered by this data point. Choose "on measurement explicit threshold create alarm". Give it a name, select AccelerationZ as the data point and define the threshold borders  somewhat close to zero gravity. Give the alarm a technical name and a description that make some more sense. Then click create. You can see this smart rule now on the info tab and you can see the alarms that are generated by this rule on the Alarm-tab. Please note: the alarm is only visible for the time  that the pattern is recognized, in other words as long as the smartphone is falling. For that reason, it's a good idea to turn on  the "show cleared alarm"- switch second automate an action Same as before click on the three dots and create another smart rule which will be triggered by the alarms  from the previous Smart Rule. Choose "On alarm send email" and fill the blanks as required: Rule name, email addresses of your friends and click on create. To wrap it up: when the smartphone is falling, the sensor data measures zero-G. Your first smart rule recognizes your defined pattern and creates an alarm. Your second smartphone is triggered by this alarm and automatically sends an email  according to your specification. Admittedly these were very generic examples and of course you're wondering what they got to do with the Internet of Things? The answer is simple what you have just seen here is the basis of IoT. connecting sensors and collecting sensor data in an IoT platform, analyzing sensor data and recognizing data patterns deriving information and defining rules. possibly also the automation  of processes and decisions Granted this was a very simple example but you need to start somewhere and the sky's the limit. It's most fun if you work with several people and have several smart phones at your disposal. You could start right now or you can have a look at some  more videos in our video channel Have fun! 