 In this second episode we discuss the modeling for SCADA/IOT platforms The supervision software platforms collect data from devices, visualize and control the real-time value through animated graphics. They also process data with calculations archiving alarm management reporting and so on and share the data with other systems. Supervision software platform is designed to supervise automated systems whose elements are numerous similar and meeting standards. For example, a building technical management system includes dozens of temperature sensors thermostats lights and so on. Each type of item is often the same or very similar. The same is true in an industrial type process for the valves or pumps used and it's obvious that the supervision software platform must allow the creation of interfaces using similar objects without having to redefine each element one by one. The ability of monitoring platform to create object models is a priority. Modeling consists in defining object models including different elements specific to an object properties: real time data, control status, alarms, registers, and so on one or more graphical representations, calculations, behaviors, alarms and so on. If we take the example of a PUMP the model could define the following elements: real time values linked to the PUMP, pressure, flow, on/off status, fault, running time and so on, graphics representations, archiving of PUMP related values, statistical operating calculation and so on. This model can then be used to generate objects of the same type in the project the modeling must therefore allowed to create more or less complex objects models create instances of similar objects from models customize each instance with values specific compared to the model generate objects in a project from instances and modify object instances if necessary and synchronize the project with the modification Thank you for being with us today! Find a full article of this episode on our blog. We'll discuss in episode 3 the benefits of modeling for SCADA/IOT platforms 