 (mechanical whirring) - Coming up on this special edition of Microsoft Mechanics we meet New York-based real estate company, RXR Realty to learn about how they're implementing IoT and AI on the edge with Azure to return people back to the office safely during COVID-19. So I'm joined today by Cory Clarke, and he's in charge of digital products at RXR, joining us from their flagship building in 75 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City. Welcome to the show. - Thanks for having me. It's great to be on the show. - And thanks so much for joining us today, Cory. By the way, for those of you who are new to RXR Realty, they're one of the largest real estate companies in New York with over 27 million square feet of real estate. Now in normal times, around 75,000 office workers occupy their building spaces. And while New York was the epicenter of COVID-19 early on its positive recovery on many levels provides an interesting model for how to safely go back to normal life in the middle of a pandemic. Now RXR is offering its own unique perspective by implementing its RxWell platform, an IoT and AI-based solution that supports safe return of people back to the office and this arms employees with the right insights and helps the company and their tenants and property managers to monitor the health of their buildings and also apply the right strategies. Okay, so Cory you're tackling one of the toughest challenges then that every employee or organization right now can relate to, which is getting people safely back into the workplace. So where do you even start? - Fortunately for us, pre COVID-19, in January, we started to implement a strategy to transform our traditional real estate footprint into an intelligent network of digitally connected spaces using technology, IoT sensors in the cloud. So when COVID hit in March, we were able to immediately start pivoting, focus on wellness and safety and begin to design the RxWell platform. And by June, in as little as three months, we were able to get everyone back to work. We had hardware pilots up and running in three buildings. The first version of our software was in all of our buildings. Since then we've rolled out a combined hardware and full software solution to the rest of our portfolio. - Right. And it's pretty staggering just how fast you were able to re-pivot your existing plans that you had in place, not just to operationalize CDC guidelines for public health, but also figure out the best way of getting everything aligned and really to create a safe environment. So how did he go about doing that? - So once we had our new plan it was really just a question of bringing together the right people. Fortunately, we had a team of almost 30 across RXR, our technology partners, Microsoft, to ensure we could deliver on that. And then our approach included a technology selection process to put enterprise-level security as the primary driver, as well as an overall design process that include various users and customers. - So can you walk us through then some of the user experiences? - Sure. As you mentioned at the beginning, we have three target user groups, the first being office workers who need to feel safe in their return back to the office. So let me show you their mobile app experience. So as an employee, you can download the app in your phone, access it by the web. We designed it to help you make informed decisions. Because of the state mandated target of 50% space occupancy, we've implemented a tool for tenants to manage their teams' workplace rotation schedules. Then as an employee, you can check your rotation slot, see when you can come into work. And then to enter the building, you need to get the daily access pass, which you obtain by completing a simple COVID questionnaire that asks you if you've tested positive, if you've experienced symptoms, if you've come in contact with someone with COVID in the past 14 days, or if you're required to quarantine. And then when you successfully complete that it gives you a pass for building entry. It's valid for the day. So before you make the trip to work, you can also review the overall building wellness pulse with metrics like air quality, it's overall density, as well as data about the local community. And if you're using our wearable for personal social distancing, you can view your personal social distance metrics. It shows you the number of people you've been in contact with each day and for how long, as well as trends over time and how your behavior compares with others in your company. This helps improve your overall social distancing behavior. And we help you further by getting information to plan when to enter the workplace by reporting foot traffic in real time, those peak times throughout the day to avoid crowds. And lastly, you can check the time your space was last cleaned. And then for any area you can request cleaning on demand, and see that updated in the app. - Okay. So that's the employee experience then? How do property managers then interact with the platform? - So the property manager has the most comprehensive view of building data in real time, so they can dynamically adjust policies and procedures, get the best level of service to people in our buildings. We took an approach that gives an oversight of all the COVID-19 public health compliance, but in a way that respects individual privacy. So as a property manager, you can view all the buildings in your portfolio, key metrics such as whether they're managing to New York state's target capacity at 50%. So for every building, you can monitor overall building health based on an index. We've designed that to take in account things like reported health issues, temperature scans, overall building density and air quality metrics. And you can also drill in to explore further. For example, with COVID, air quality is super important. So we know fresh air reduces risk. So we exchange all the air in our buildings with outside air every two hours, we show the level of CO2 in the air as an indicator of how fresh it is. We also know that to reduce the risk of COVID transmission, we should keep humidity levels to around 40-60%. So we show that factor in our health index. And then you can drill into a sensor and see air quality on a specific floor and make sure it's within optimal range. Under occupant health, you can quickly see if tenants are experiencing an outbreak with data on reported cases, general absenteeism due to illness, as well as trends in temperature scans. And then you can look specifically at community metrics like COVID hospital rates in neighborhood. And then also, as you know, one of the hardest things with COVID is ensuring compliance to public health measures. And we're constantly monitoring social distancing in a de-identified way throughout public areas. - So what about your third audience then? The companies, maybe there are facility managers that are actually tenants in the spaces. What are they then able to see? - So the tenants, they can see a subset of what the property manager sees. You'll see occupant health with case count, today's high temperature scans, temperature scan trends over time, building access metrics, absentee illness tracking, and hospital admission information. And it helps you get a pulse on your capacity by reporting how much your workforce has returned, or if more needs to be done to improve compliance to public health measures. - And what I really love about these tailored experiences is that they're transparent and also data driven and make it easy for everyone to make informed decisions around their actions. But what's the tech then behind the scenes that we don't see here? - So these core user experiences are fueled by the intelligence that we place at the edge. It connects that back up to Azure. We've architected a three-tiered model. We have specialist IoT devices reporting data we've placed throughout our buildings. We collect data from existing or specialist systems on premise, and then we've installed an Azure Stack Edge device for local inferencing of security footage. The data flows to Azure and all the data ends up residing in a single Azure SQL database. At the same time, we have a cold path where the data is stored after the after-the-fact analysis of data like building energy consumption. And in the future, the goal is to apply more machine learning, drive insights and building automation. - So I would imagine you have a lot of IoT sensors. Where does the placement of those IoT sensors go? - So our IoT footprint differs by building, but if we take our flagship building here as an example, so we have air quality sensors that we've placed throughout the building to measure inside air. And then in our fresh air dampers or intake ducts, we measure outside air. This data is processed with Azure Stream analytics to monitor CO2 differentials between the inside and the outside air to give us an accurate read on fresh air circulation. Then we have two common types of sensors for occupancy. We have a people counter that counts people entering and leaving a space. And for example, we've placed those in the lobby turnstiles. And then we also have binary occupancy sensors that we placed in other communal areas. So these sensors connect to Azure IoT Hub via SaaS Gateway. And then we use Azure Stream Analytics to process the data. We have an Azure function that listens for updates, which are sent to an Azure SQL database. Then we apply our own data model that queries against the KPIs, outputs the results into the RxWell apps. In this case, it helps us report on building traffic and occupancy. - Okay, so how fresh or real time then is that data coming in? - It's nearly real time which is a really big reason for using Azure Stream Analytics. Let me give you an example. So we have this clean button that cleaners press to confirm sanitation of a bathroom. Once the button's activated, Azure Stream Analytics caches this information in memory. At the same time, Bluetooth sensors detect if there's a cleaner with a badge in the vicinity. Within seconds of the clean button being pushed, Azure Stream Analytics checks to see if that badge has been located. And once the presence of the badge is confirmed, an Azure function pushes the status update to the external digital signage, the date and time the bathroom is cleaned. - What I like about this is you've accounted for then false positives in your solution that rules out maybe the possibility of someone being a little sneaky, other than the cleaner in pressing that button to try to confirm cleaning. But how much intelligence then is kind of baked into the Edge devices themselves? So this can vary throughout the implementation, but for the most part, these are dumb devices, other than the fact that they collect and transmit data. So for example, the displays outside our bathroom, these are low-powered, battery-operated, Bluetooth devices. They don't need any wiring which makes them really easy to mount anywhere, we can just use stickers. - I know a lot of people watching are probably wondering about the security, given that a lot of times these IoT devices and Edge devices are web facing. So how are you handling the security there? - Well I think for anyone who's new to enterprise IoT, this isn't a raspberry pie, DIY kit. Security's at the crux of the solution. Our IoT devices communicate through secure channels, authenticate using security tokens. So this is achieved by deploying our Azure IoT SDK into our SaaS device gateways. We also use Azure Key Vault to assign cryptographic key pairs to those gateways. If we take our bathroom configuration, for example, data from the button and badge sensors is communicated via the gateway. And the Azure function that triggers the message on the display is also running the IoT SDK for secure token-based exchange of data. - So it's good to hear that security is basically inherently baked in, but you mentioned that you can continue leveraging on-premises systems for your building metrics, for example. How does that work? - So we have, for example, all our premises have a building access control system. It verifies and logs employees as they badge in and enter the building. And this gives us a second data point around occupancy. It provides more granular insights such as where the floors are, where each person's heading. And this is correlated with data from our people counter. In the lobby we use it to accurately assess the building and floor occupancy against our target threshold of 50%. And it's important to note again, this is completely de-identified and it's passed through the same flow as our Azure SQL database for reporting to the RxWell platform. - Right, and one thing I noticed is that you were able to report on the health of people that are in your buildings in both the employee app and the property manager app. How were able to do that? - So there's three ways we do that. So we've pull data from the COVID self attestation, that's in the employee app that we showed you earlier. Then we have tenants reporting if there's any positive COVID cases in the building. And then finally we have these thermal cameras that we've installed in the lobby that monitor people's temperature. And then we have a logic app that adjusts the data and sends it to Azure IoT Hub. So if person has an elevated temperature, that's a particular event. We record that in Azure SQL database for our reporting. And we also track the average temperature for all the individuals entering the building and use that trend as a potential indicator of outbreaks. - Right. This is fascinating stuff. Can you explain then how you're using though Azure Stack Edge Devices? - So we deployed the Azure Stack Edge Devices with GPU to do inferencing on our security footage. This has a container that is running a prebuilt Azure computer vision model called Spatial Analysis to analyze the data stream of video footage. So here's the output of the analysis, and this is our lobby space and you see the foot traffic. And then from spatial analysis, we're using two distinct models. People counting, that allows us to count people in a designated area, and then social distancing, which allows us to observe compliance to social distancing. Again, one of the most important aspects of this implementation is that all the data reported back is de-identified. So we can look at our social distancing compliance and aggregate, determine strategies for improving compliance, such as how we route people to the lobby. - Right, and just to explain, the Azure Spatial Analysis models, they're part of Azure Cognitive Services, and they really comprise high-quality models that are built by Microsoft's own data scientists. The people counting, and also the social distancing are in preview today. And you can find out more about those at aka.ms/SpatialAnalysis. And what makes these models high quality is that Microsoft has trained them to a super high level of accuracy to work in any environment and they run on the edge with data control, privacy and scale built in by design. - And to the point, what's awesome is these models are pre-trained. We literally didn't have to do anything. They just worked. So here, I've connected my Visual Studio code editor to Azure IoT Hub by an extension. So I can view the YAML configuration file. So this is the configuration for special analysis, personal distance. Right now it's configured for a single camera feed. The Azure Stack Edge happens to have two GPUs, but if I had multiple cameras, here's where I could assign a GPU to each camera to run the model. You'll see the minimum distance threshold is set to six feet. And I can modify that if I want to. Next, you can see analysis output. Here's where we see the person counts, which is the number of people within the frame. And we can see here, it's detected that two people are too close. We're able to take that output and record the event via Azure Stream Analytics and curate the results as part of our social distance compliance reporting. - Okay, so with all these different IoT devices, how have you approached then, the management of those devices? - That's the core advantage of Azure IoT Hub because it's end-to-end device management, massive scale, seamless integration with other Azure services. So here I'm in Azure IoT Hub. As you can see in the overview blade, the volume messages is around 300,000 from 50 connected devices right now. But that is just a portion of our portfolio occupancies, only around 10-20%. So as we increase building and occupants, we can scale elastically to meet our needs. And scrolling down, I can get a single view over all our IoT devices. We register and authenticate all devices before they communicate with the IoT hub. I can also see our Device Gateways as well as our Azure Stack Edge which is provisioned like any other IoT device. And we can control the modules that run on it. Next, tools like IoT Explorer allow us to see live telemetry devices, validate device health or troubleshoot issues. So I have end-to-end device management, including configuration control for devices. If I go back to our IoT hub, you can see we're able to do bi-directional communication. So we can send messages to devices, execute direct methods and control device configurations to things like device twins. - Right, and this is probably one of the best examples that I've seen of IoT and AI on the edge, but what's next then on the horizon for RXR? - All this data opens up a world of possibilities. We're able to start providing more personalization for users, we are able to understand space usage and employee productivity, and we're able to optimize our operations of our space. And we're looking to move this to Azure Digital Twins, make the data easier to model and analyze. So we're also working on improving the wellness offering. We've partnered with the healthcare provider to develop a new method of environmental testing that uses special PPE for our cleaners. This allows us to identify where in the building there might be traces of COVID so we can identify potential asymptomatic carriers. Then we're also looking into options for identifying face mask usage via machine learning. And finally, with such a scalable backbone as Azure IoT, we're able to offer this solution to other landlords and occupiers. You can actually get our solution in the Azure Marketplace at aka.ms/RxWellSolution. - Great stuff. Thank you so much, Cory, for joining us today and really sharing how you're tackling an issue that really resonates with a lot of us, whether we're an employee or an organization trying to figure out how to operate during the pandemic while keeping people safe. Now, if you want to learn more about RXR's example, check out aka.ms/RXWell. And to learn more about Azure IoT and AI, check out azure.com. Hopefully we answered all your questions today and also keep watching Microsoft Mechanics for latest tech updates. Subscribe if you haven't already and we'll see you next time. (dramatic mechanical music) 