 IoT solutions use Cloud-Based Services to collect and organize data, execute advanced workloads like deep learning AI algorithms and provide centralized, operations, and management. Today, IP cameras are used across many industries: traffic monitoring, security, manufacturing, and industrial safety are examples of IoT applications using IP cameras. These devices capture huge amounts of video and images that are sent to the cloud for processing. An IoT solution must help ensure connectivity, speed, power, and security for these devices combined with the need to collect, store, and process large amounts of data in the cloud. These solutions are complex, integrate, and expensive to manage. Microsoft Qualcomm are disrupting the space with the software on silicon which enables a new breed of IP camera. Powered by the Qualcomm Vision Intelligence platform, the device is capable of AI processing locally on the device, analyzing what's seen, and sending only the relevant data to the cloud for insights and action. This IP camera is an Azure IoT starter kit that uses the Azure Machine Learning Service does build train and deploy AI models. These models are packaged into containers and transitioned to camera using Azure IoT edge. This devices or reference device for developers to build their own IoT solutions. All the AI computation is done on a camera using the Built-In Neural Processing Engine for hardware acceleration of the deep neural network models, only the results are sent to the cloud. So, all your sensitive data stay safely on the device. You can start building your own model with Microsoft's Custom Vision AI Service or bring your own TensorFlow cafe or ONYX Model and package it using Azure machine learning or you can pick an existing model from the Azure AI Gallery to easily create your own vision AI solutions. Joining the visionaidevkit.com community, and partner with Microsoft and Qualcomm to help build your AI solution. Go to visionaidevkit.com to learn more and start building your vision AI, IoT solution today. 