 Visual Chirality by Zhiqiu Lin, Jin Sun, Abe Davis, and Noah Snavely The visual world is complex and varied which is part of what makes computer vision so difficult and a major lesson over the last decade has been that you can never have too much data Even simple tasks like training a network to detect cats essentially amount to using some limited set of examples to estimate a distribution over all possible images so it's not surprising that we need a lot of data. One common way to help get that data is to augment training sets with mirrored versions of each training image the idea is that if we combine a thousand cat images with a thousand reflected cat images, then we get two thousand cat images. But here's the thing: the world we see in mirrors is different from our own. Text reads backwards, right hands become left hands, and clockwise motion becomes counter-clockwise. To quote Lewis Carroll, "It's just the same only things go the other way" Now we have a pretty good sense of how this works geometrically but, despite widespread use when training deep networks, we know a lot less about how it affects what we LEARN from visual data. So that's what this paper is about: How does reflection change what we learn from image data? And how should this inform the way we think about symmetry in visual distributions? We use theoretical analysis and learning experiments to analyze symmetry in both distributions of visual content and in algorithms which process that content. Then, building on this analysis, we show how to find and visualize reflectional asymmetries in distributions of real-world data, From the artifacts of basic image processing like JPEG compression, to written language, and even more subtle indicators like the part of human hair and how we hold or wear different items, the world is full of subtle types of handedness. And we can use these, for example, to better understand training bias, or to help detect if an image has been manipulated. And we DO this in a self-supervised way by looking for the subtle, and often surprising differences that separate our world from the one that we see in the mirror. For more information, check out the project website and paper. Thank you. 