 Hi, everyone. I am Bertrand Bodson, Chief Digital Officer at Novartis— truly delighted to be hosting the very first virtual Novartis Lecture, with one of the most prominent tech pioneers that exists out there, with Microsoft. Talking about technology, I am delighted that we could make this around data science and digital. You may not know that, but we made, over the last two and a half years, going big on data and digital one of our top five priorities across Novartis, with very big ambition that lie behind this. To give you a sense, we call those, our three big ‘What Ifs?’ First of all, on the innovation side, in research and development, we have given ourselves the goal of reducing by two plus years, the time to get our drugs to market. This has probably never been more relevant in the current world that we live in right now. On the engagement side, in our relationship with healthcare practitioners, with patients, with the healthcare system, we gave ourselves the ‘what if we could reach twice as many patients, twice as fast?’ A pretty big, bold ambition but one needed when you think that 60% of patients on chronic diseases right now don’t get access to the right treatment. And even among those, another 40% of those patients don’t necessarily adhere to their medication. Hopefully technology can help improve that situation that we have right now. And the third ‘What if?’ is on the operational side. How could we streamline a lot of our operations with the intent to reinvest the saving into our key launches, and equally importantly, into research and development. This being said, this is a big agenda and we cannot do this alone. We need some of the best partners that exist in the world, and a big piece of our strategy is to work with those technology partners, especially at a time when science, data and digital is coming together. That’s why I’m so delighted, today, to have a great guest sharing the lecture, called Peter Lee. Peter is one of the most senior executives at Microsoft. He has been there for some time; has a lot of great stories to tell, as you will see. He is Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Research. He leads the work across eight different hubs that they have across the world in Microsoft; the most important one being into healthcare and into life science. He was a Professor at Carnegie Mellon University. He was the Chair of the Computer Science Department—a lot to share on that front as well. He has been involved in many boards for public services and interestingly, also has been helping the Obama administration at the time in the field of cyber security. He is also a prestigious member of the National Academy of Medicine. So, on that note, I want to welcome Peter to join the flow with us. I think he’s going to deliver a great lecture. Maybe before we go into full swing, there is an invitation to all of you to join the Pigeonhole that you see on your screen. You may see a QR code. This is an invitation to ask any question you will have for Peter. Peter will start with a few remarks; we’ll get into a dialogue, and then we’ll try the best that we can, to pick up the questions that get most voted. Peter, the floor is yours, and welcome. Thank you Bertrand. It’s so great to see you today and really such an honor to be here, even if it’s all only virtual. And to everyone in the audience, hello. I wanted to start our conversation to talk about artificial intelligence, and especially the impact of AI in healthcare and life sciences. And if we look ahead, over the next 10 years, there’s no doubt that there’s going to be just an amazing set of advances and a complete transformation of how we practice medicine; how we conduct and accelerate our research; how we bring new drugs to market, and how doctors, and nurses, administrators, engage with patients. But I wanted to say a few words about how this is effecting us today. Because that transformation is not just 10 years from now. It’s something that’s happening in the here and now. And to do that I thought I would actually start with a slightly different but, as you’ll see, related topic, which is about learning a language. Now I’m guessing that many of you in the audience and you, Bertrand of course, have gone through the process of learning a second language. And if you’ve learned a second language you’ve probably, intuitively, experienced and understood some things. So for example, if your native language is English and you’re trying to learn French, you didn’t have to start from scratch in order to learn French. You were able to, at least intuitively or subconsciously, use your knowledge of English to give you a boost in trying to learn that second language, French. That idea of using a base language or base skill to learn a new language or a new skill is a phenomenon called ‘transfer learning’. And transfer learning is actually a much deeper and more profound effect than most people realize. In fact, when you’re learning that second language, French, you’re also using your base knowledge of how to answer questions, how to pose a question, and maybe even, how to tell a joke. And all of that gets sort of transferred, in some form or another, as you learn that second language. Now what’s amazing today is that we’re seeing in today’s AI systems the same type of transfer learning effect. And I’d like to explain now why that’s important, and especially why that’s important for healthcare and life sciences. Today, we’re building new types of AI systems based on something called ‘self- supervised learning’. And to put it simply, a self-supervised learning system today is able to ingest huge amounts of digital data, let’s say text documents, all the web pages in the world, everything it can get its hands on and start to take all of this, what in the AI field is referred to as ‘unlabeled data’ and start to earn about the structure, about how human beings put together letters into words, words into sentences, sentences into paragraphs, paragraphs into whole documents and understand, just through that ingest. In fact, ingest at such a scale that if you were to say print out, in our current models here at Microsoft, all of the text that our AI systems had ingested, it would be a stack of paper over 20 miles high. And from that, build a model, that model having the ability now to learn new things, based on that base knowledge. Now what kinds of new things? Well, today, I don’t know if you realize, but in the area of cancer research, there are about 2000 research abstracts and papers published every single day. This is an amazing testament to human ingenuity and to governments around the world really focusing on advancing our knowledge and leading to a cure for cancer. But it creates a problem for people who want to treat cancer patients, because there is no human way possible for anyone, tumor board or any doctor, to be able to ingest all of that knowledge, to ensure that as they are treating patients, that they are treating them with the latest research knowledge. Well, with our new abilities based on transfer learning, we can build decision support systems that can read all of those thousands of research papers and abstracts every day and construct decision support tools, and in collaboration with great cancer centers, like the Jackson Laboratory here in the United States, we have actually deployed exactly exactly those types of decision support tools that basically augment what cancer specialists can do, by giving them the knowledge in easy decision support form that has all of the collective knowledge of those thousands of papers. It goes beyond though and makes actually the ability for doctors to be more human, and to pay more attention to their patients. If you look at this picture, this is a picture made by a child, whose parent is a doctor and this picture is meant to depict, from the child’s point of view, what it is that the doctor does. And in this picture, the doctor is the person on the left. And I’m sure those of you that have seen a doctor recently, are probably familiar with this, that your doctor is actually spending as much time, if not more time, sitting in front of a computer typing, as opposed to actually paying attention and making eye contact with you. Now the reason this happens is that today, the burden of creating digital documentation of your health history falls on the shoulders of the doctor. That burden of creating clinical documentation has been so onerous that it is actually leading to high degrees of burn-out. In fact, amongst white collar jobs in many parts of the world, doctors now have the highest burn-out and suicide rates, sadly. Well, today, we are now able to use transfer learning in our AI systems to make devices that listen to doctor-patient conversations, protect privacy and automate the construction of a clinical encounter note, thereby making it possible for doctors to be face to face, and human with their patients again. And today, at Microsoft, we have a partnership with Nuance Communications where we are actively deploying exactly that type of system, and that is in a system called "Drag and Ambient Experience" and we’re very pleased with how enthusiastically doctors are embracing this. Today, also, for COVID-19, we, in the crisis, have had this incredible problem where you have people who are potentially very infectious flooding into emergency departments, or overwhelming nurse call centers at hospitals and clinics. And so working with Provenence Health System, the Centers for Disease Control here in the United States, we developed an AI-powered, interactive chatbot that provides consumers with the ability 24/7 to have an interactive text-based conversation to self-assess their conditions and give them advice on where to go, if they need to see a doctor or talk to a nurse. This health bot, this COVID-19 health bot, now has been deployed at over 2100 hospitals and clinics around the world, and in many cases is reducing emergency department and nurse center call volumes by as much as 30%. And we see here that even humble applications of AI can have dramatic impact in a crisis. Now while all of these are important applications and abilities in just language, the main thing I wanted to convey here is that language is much deeper than just what human beings do to communicate with each other. The universe, and life itself, speaks a language. And so, one thing that we’ve been working on with Adaptive Biotechnologies, Allumina, Provenence Health, LabCorp and others, is the idea of decoding elements of the human immune system, understanding its genetics, and if understood as a language, being able to translate that language into the language of diagnosis and disease. And so, when your doctor takes a 1ml sample of your blood, she holds in her hand a sample of about 1 million of your T-cells, each of those T-cells genetically programmed to attack a specific antigen or carrier of disease. That antigen is encoded in a specific gene in that T-cell so now if we understand that language of the genetics of the T-cell, and can translate it, much as we might translate English into French, we may be able to have something approaching a universal diagnostic. And we’re very excited that just this week, that we’re able to announce the release of a new diagnosis tool based on exactly this kind of language translation technology, called T-Detect from Adaptive Biotechnologies. And so you see, when we are able to use self-supervised learning to build extremely powerful AI systems, we’re able to attack language and make it possible for doctors to be more human; to be happier in their jobs; to augment what they’re able to do with the flood of information but, most importantly, for the future, and starting here and now, to be able to understand the language of life, and translate the language of life into more precise and more personalized healthcare. So to close, I just wanted to get back full circle to this idea of transfer learning. Our hope is to achieve a transformation by answering the question, what if the language of computers could also be the language of healthcare? What would be possible? And to do that, I’d like to quote the English writer Geoffrey Willans who, in his thinking about transfer learning, said ‘you can never understand one language until you understand two’. And with that, I see great hope for the future and tremendous potential for AI in healthcare and life sciences, not only in the future but here and now today. Thank you. Thank you, Peter. I think it’s very well put. I love the analogy of languages as well that you are using and actually what strikes me beyond this, is how closely our worlds are aligning in many ways. You would expect the world of Microsoft versus the world of a pharma company would be a million miles away but actually it’s incredible the number of partnerships you have been doing in this space. Can you share maybe a bit more about what attracted Microsoft into healthcare in the first place and at the same time maybe sharing a couple of the moonshots you’ve been working on. I’d be very happy to do that. One of the things that is, I think, sometimes not appreciated well enough, is that over the past 15 years there has been a huge transformation in the digitization of healthcare. In fact, in the United States, 15 years ago, less than 5% of health records for patients were in digital form. In fact, if you’re old enough, you’ll probably remember in your doctor’s office, that doctors had file folders of written health records. Today, in fact, over 98% of health records are in digital form and that digitization has come along with the digitization of many other things— the electronic devices that are used at bedsides in hospitals; in fact the very devices that are used to do measurements have all gone digital. And in life science research, in pharmaceutical research, we’re seeing tremendous moves towards digitization. And so as we sit here today in 2020, the question before us now is, what can we do with those mountains of digital data? Can we extract the insights; can we extract more value; can we extract better health from all that digital data? And there’s just tremendous possibility. And for Microsoft, we think we have a lot to contribute to that, but it’s also good for our business. Because as healthcare and life sciences has gone digital, we also see that it’s shifting to a dependence on AI, and to cloud computing. And so it’s very important for Microsoft to understand how it can be relevant in that AI-first, cloud-first future for healthcare and life sciences. In our work in this space, we have become extremely impressed with the leading edge companies who have been thinking very hard about their digitization, and Novartis actually comes at the very top of that list as an amazingly far-sighted, progressive thinker in the digitization of healthcare. Peter, as we got to know each other as well over the last two years, on a personal note as well, there’s been a great relationship between the companies building up. We also got to learn about, from you, how you think long term about some of those moonshots as well. You talk about a 2030 type of horizon, which is actually not alien to the pharma space as well where we often talk about the 12 year horizon as well for drug development. Can you share a bit more about how you approach that, from a lens of a technologist? Yeah, you know, you use the word ‘moonshot’ and I think some of the most fun times that you and I have had, some of the most intellectually stimulating times, have been when we’ve talked about moonshots and you’re right, you know, I try to go through an exercise on a pretty frequent basis, at least once a year, to think ahead—what will inevitably be true about the world ten years from now? And not just from scientific or technological advances but because of the way the world is changing through politics, through the economy, through social forces, through other natural forces. And to take just one example, in our discussions, when you look ahead to the year 2030, we have tremendous optimism that some diseases of our time, such as cancer, will become much more manageable, maybe even cured, in this 10-year period. It will take a lot of work, and some real brilliance, but we’re on track. But then when we also look over the next 10 years, particularly in the US, Europe and Asia, we see tremendous aging demographics, a so-called ‘silver tsunami’. And with that aging demographics, by the year 2030, we might be able to presume that diseases like age-related neurological disease, might start to become much more prominent. And so now when you think ahead to the year 2030, with that sort of idea in mind, then it allows you to work backwards to today and understand what are the kinds of things that we should be thinking about today, so that we are ready to contribute to that world ten years from now? And that sort of shapes how we think about moonshots, and there are many other areas that we think about like this. With COVID-19, it’s, of course, bringing to light the impact of global pandemics and of course, we’ve seen this accelerating over the past decade with things like Ebola and Zika and now COVID-19. And so as we think ahead about our needs in managing and getting early signals on global pandemics, we start to invest in projects in the here and now to be ready for that. And one of the projects that I’m very excited about—in fact I brought an example here—is a project here called "Premonition" and so this is an odd-looking device—it’s actually a robot— and it’s a robot that attracts bugs. Now you can program it to attract mosquitoes and each one of these little compartments is a robotically-controlled computer vision and AI-powered trap and so when you put this trap and so when you put this trap out in the environment, let’s say to capture a certain kind of mosquito, you capture these things and understand that those mosquitos are some of the most effective bio-sample collectors in the environment. And so working with Harris County Public Health in Texas, we have a pilot program where we’re deploying these traps in the environment to understand if the Zika virus is present, or maybe other unknown pathogens are present, in the environment. And by collecting these great bio sample and blood collectors, and then going through a metagenomic analysis, again AI-powered, we’re able to do a tremendous sort of early warning signal. And so while we think of these as sort of science fiction futures, to think of a global biosensory network in this form, they are really informed by predictions about what the world is going to be like in ten years, and so we actually use the word, not just ‘moonshot’ but we say ‘relevant moonshot’ because we’re not just wanting to do things just for the sake of doing awe-inspiring science but we want to do moonshots that really have a chance to be truly meaningful in that future. It’s a great example and probably a good opportunity as well to commend you on the work we’ve been doing together in leprosy as well, which is really a Biblical disease. And using AI and using good experiences as well to try to demystify what leprosy can be in more remote areas and getting patients to really, via a very simple cell phone in remote areas, to be able to diagnose themselves much earlier as well. So great practical application of it as well, Peter. Well, we really have to thank you, here at Microsoft, for bringing us into that effort and, you know, leprosy is something that, this is something that we can overcome. But also, the science that we’re doing together on leprosy, the AI models, the biology, has far-reaching implications that go beyond leprosy itself. And so, again, there’s this idea of here and now, as well as in the future, in the work that we’re doing together. And at the same time, if I could bring us back to the reality of day to day as well, we all know there’s a lot of hype as well in AI, also some gaps in terms of computational power, we’re really quite behind. And for a little story, having joined the healthcare space two and a half years ago, I clearly had the strong assumption that this was largely a computational challenge, like drug hunting, how hard can it be to some extent? I quickly got to realize, that very humbling experience, that biology is incredibly complex of course. We’re all made of 40 trillion cells. Each of those cells has a trillion molecules in their own right. So how do you find, as you’re venturing in that space, and as we’re partnering as well, the ability to really be grounded into the scientific question, about making sure it’s practical applications to which we can turn the best engines behind. Yeah, it’s such an important question and I should be asking you that, because we’re all seeking the answer to that question! First, on your point about computing power, it is very hard to wrap your head around this. You know, during the May/June timeframe of this pandemic response, here at Microsoft we donated massive amounts of cloud computing power, and in fact, for some of the vaccine and drug therapy molecular dynamics modelling efforts, at one point we were donating more than 24 petaflops of computing power, continuously, to some of these efforts. Now, to put that in context, 24 petaflops is roughly 200 times more powerful than the most powerful computer, super computer, on the planet during the first SARS epidemic. And so, if you just think about how far we’ve come and the huge amount of computing power that we have today it’s just, just mind-blowing. Now, as you were saying, human biology is just so complex that even with the computing power today, it may not be enough. But it is incredible, the amount of precision, for example in modeling efforts around the spike protein and its binding affinity to ACE2 receptor for COVID-19 that was able to be developed, really, within a few weeks – something that we would not have been able to do, even just five years ago. And so computing power, while it continues to advance, it is at a scale now where we are able to do things today that were just unimaginable in past pandemics. Now, on your broader question, you know, I think one thing that we are always struggling with is where to direct these precious resources and it’s not just the resources in computing infrastructure but also people’s time and attention. And there’s always going to be a balance between the kind of here and now, the urgent problems and crisis response today versus looking ahead to the future. And again, this is where thinking about what is inevitable about the future world becomes so important. Because, to the extent that we do devote some of our attention to longer term problems, we at least want to have those longer term problems to be connected to the trends of today. And so, the orientation always is asking for that relevance today. Now so far, in this pandemic response, our attention has really shifted and we’ve embraced your goals about really trying to shorten time to drug discovery and deployment today and trying to connect your researchers, and your operations to doctors and patients today. Those things are incredibly important but they’re important to us, in part, because we also see those things as important trends for the year 2030. So we see that they really harmonize together and again, we would not have arrived at that thought process without the partnership with you. We were really guided to this by working so closely together. It’s a good bridge, Peter, for – I’m keeping an eye on the board too, for questions that are coming up, and at the very top of the list—I’ll read it and I’ll gad along – I’d like to know more about the kind of outputs we’re getting from the partnership signed last year between Novartis and Microsoft. What kind of return are we seeing and what kind of impact are we seeing? Maybe it’s a good place to talk exactly about that, about the venture we’re making in generative chemistry together, which we haven’t proven yet, but we’re making our very best attempt. A couple of others that jump to mind, is probably the work that we do on technical research and development, protocol AI and map AI—maybe it’s worth explaining, and then I want to keep afterwards the broad ambition we have in terms of citizen data scientists, if you don’t mind. Do you mind if we start sharing a bit about the first couple? Sure, you know, on generative chemistry I have to say, boy, your scientists are pushing our researchers so hard! You know, the thing that’s so interesting in generative chemistry, from the computer science perspective, is that the basic structures have different spatial and temporal properties. When we’re focused on language or images, which is typical in contemporary computer science, they have sort of a linear temporal and spatial property, but chemistry is not like that. Chemistry is innately three-dimensional and graph structured. And that has caused us to have to take a step back and rethink the core foundations of deep neural nets, of bajan graphical models and how we think about the foundations of machine learning and data science kernels. And so that’s been incredibly exciting for us and we’re just starting to see some of the computer science results in publications come out and as those things develop and become more effective, in the support of the biological science and generative chemistry that we’re doing together, I just see just incredibly exciting potential. So, you know, I think my main message there is that the work together on generative chemistry is really forcing us to break new ground in fundamental computer science and AI. And it’s just, I think, profoundly important and exciting – super exciting for our researchers. On your question about citizen data scientists, this is something I’m just so pleased about. You know, when you look at the research operations at Novartis, it’s so incredibly impressive and you have so many research groups that have done so much and they are all operating on a kind of mountain of data. And so now the question is, you know, can we supply tools to those scientists that allow them to bring the very latest AI and data science techniques to bear, and can we make that tool as easy and straightforward to use as something like Microsoft Excel? That’s an exciting project we’ve been doing together and we’ve been deploying tools, and it’s been just so impressive to see how Novartis' scientists have been just embracing these tools, even though they’re just changing every single day as we’re developing these things together. It's also allowing the possibility for these data silos to start having the silo walls come down and be able to connect the dots across all of these different data sets, and even get to the next stage of sharing the data science kernels and machine learning algorithms across all the various parts of research and science at a company like Novartis. So enabling our dream of having every scientist in Novartis be a state-of-the-art data scientist equipped with easy-use tools I think is an amazing vision and one that I think we have a lot of intensity working on together. I still remember the room in which we were when you pitched that to us at the time saying what if we could do to AI what Microsoft has done to Excel? I think it was a very interesting out-of-the-box vision but very interesting to be on the journey on this together and to see in practical terms how this is starting to apply. And the notion of citizen data scientist about making all of us being able to deal with AI without having to know what is below the iceberg is incredibly powerful and I can’t think of many tech pioneers who could make that happen. Maybe to complete on the question, we are also doing productivity work together, for example in our world we do protocols for clinical trials very regularly at massive scale but we tend to repeat the same task again and again with regulatory approval/non approval we’re trying to use with a lot of unstructured data behind, we’re using smart AI to be able to understand the patterns that are there So how can we really understand when it’s going to be rejected, when it needs to be enhanced, when it needs to be reconsidered? Likewise in marketing as well, we have a lot of materials that are hopefully helping healthcare practitioners but often there is a rejection/acceptance process of those, so instead of having to reinvent the wheel all of the time, that’s when AI comes into its most practical form with the healthcare we are seeing already day to day. Peter, let me shift... Well, in fact, just in clinical trials, you know, again this is where transfer learning has been coming into effect because jointly we’ve been making pretty impressive advances, for example in being able to ingest the documentation around clinical trials, and really start to understand them, be able to answer questions and be able to discern patterns of success or of falls in those documents, just in order to ensure and maximize the chances for success. Also, even with the health bot, we’ve been working together on clinical trials meshing to make it easier for doctors and even patients to just engage in a conversation with an interactive chatbot to understand, are there clinical trials that are right for me, and how can I get enrolled? And those types of applications, the AI models underneath, are things that are emerging from our work together. Peter, I want to talk a little bit more about Microsoft and learn more about Microsoft as well with the audience. Let’s come back to COVID. You mentioned earlier how you had directed some of your resources the emergent and absolute urgent need that the world has right now. It has obviously impacted all of us. It has also been an inflection point for digital technology in many ways, telemedicine being one example among many. Can you share a bit more, more broadly, about how it has impacted Microsoft and how it has impacted some of your roadmap and some of your prioritization as well, through that lens? Yeah, it’s been incredibly disruptive, in a way, but ultimately I think it has made us a better company and it has inspired people. Like workplaces all around the world, we’ve had to adjust how we work, but also, Microsoft technologies power the world. They power over 200 governments around the world; power hundreds of thousands of businesses and enterprises, and schools everywhere. And so, as the pandemic hit, and the world was shifting, for example to a more virtual world, we suddenly found ourselves in the situation where it was our responsibility to ensure the world could keep working; that governments could keep working; that the healthcare system could keep working. And so there was an "all hands on deck" effort in order to ensure that our data centers around the world, our cloud, software systems like Office365, like Teams, could handle that kind of load. But then on top of that, we had hundreds of thousands of those same organizations coming to us asking for very specific help on different matters. Help for public health authorities who needed to do contact tracing; help for healthcare organizations that needed to triage patients; help for governments that needed to be able to communicate in new ways. And so we had a Microsoft Services Disaster Response team that was always available, ready to marshal Microsoft’s resources and people in response. Internally, I ran a hackathon in order to connect the dots, between people, particularly in research, at Microsoft, and those external needs. And in the hackathon over 1,100 Microsoft employees from across the company stepped up to volunteer, put aside what they were doing in their normal job in order to pitch in on some important projects— projects ranging from molecular dynamics modelling to accelerate drug discovery and modelling; projects involving contact tracing, projects involving recruiting, plasma donation, partnerships with healthcare organizations, and those projects, while I think in our minds, at one point, we had hoped they would just last through the summer, we’re now realizing today are going to be part of an ongoing part of Microsoft’s business. And so, we’ve started to reorganize some of our internal organizations, to make more permanent these kinds of activities. So it has been truly a profound impact and make no mistake, it’s important, not just for us to contribute to the world but it’s important for Microsoft’s business itself, because a healthy world is a necessary thing for a healthy business for Microsoft. That’s interesting Peter and that leads us as well into another area where we share a lot of common interest as well. It’s on the cultural journey and a sense of purpose among our two different companies as well in two different spaces is that it's very profound. We’re on that journey. We call it the ‘unbossed movement’ as you know. How do we create a company where we have the 108,000 of us are inspired, naturally curious, unbossed, really empowered and self-aware? But to be honest, we have actually been a student of yours, from fairly early on because you started that journey way before us, in the sense that Microsoft was not always the Microsoft of today; you’ve seen probably different phases of this, in a different capacity while you were there— a move from a sort of ‘know it all’ to ‘learn it all,’ as you and Satya talk about. We have heard you talk about a few times ’culture eats strategy at breakfast every day’. Can you guide us a little bit through your journey on that and how does it really feel inside Microsoft and what can we learn, especially in this day and age right now where we all working remotely and probably need to act differently, to lead our companies? Yeah, you know, it’s such an important thing that you’re raising and as I reflect on my own personal journey over the last few years here, it really ultimately just does come down to having the humility to just listen and learn. You know, to put yourself in a space where you’re not personally trying to prove anything to anyone, but you’re just trying to find a way to grow, to get to a new place. And it’s difficult. In fact, I sometimes joke that with Satya Nadella, our CEO, when he talks about the growth mindset, that that’s actually a euphemism. Because growth can be can be painful at times. In fact, Bertrand, I think one of the reasons why you and I, you know, have found such common ground together is that we’ve both gone through a growth because neither of us have a history, a long-term history, as professionals in healthcare and life sciences. It’s a transition that we made and it’s a transition that I made initially unwillingly. I was asked to do this, by our CEO, and asked to learn and to try to make a difference. And at the time, it was a request that was hard to understand. You ask ‘why me?’ You even feel a little bit like a victim. But as you start to immerse yourself and start to understand that Microsoft, writ large, actually has something to offer here, and in fact Microsoft needs something to happen here, you start to learn, you start to grow, you start to undergo a transformation that’s very personal, to the point where you become a different person. And that experience I’ve had personally is something that has been going on throughout Microsoft, even all the way up to our CEO. And not to embarrass you, Bertrand, but I resonate and click with you because I understand that you have gone through exactly that same type of personal journey and as you say, Novartis is going through this now, today. The thing that is just so important for people to understand as they’re doing this there are moments of pain—it’s an up and down journey— but the perseverance and the focus on learning and growing, ultimately, can be the most rewarding experience, for you personally and for the organization that you’re part of. So I realize this is sounding a little bit abstract and conceptual but it really does come down to just that. And I really credit our CEO for having the vision and the courage to bring our company through this. It’s beautifully put, Peter, in so many ways, and certainly resonates, especially in the space where we are only as good as the quality of the innovation that we come up with in so many ways, so that notion of curiosity, that notion of reinventing, that notion of learning, which comes with the pain indeed, I think it’s very profound. Peter, I’ll ask you, and maybe I might surprise you, forgive me for that, but I kept one on which probably you’ve no idea, but there’s a little game I like to play which is called ‘under-rated or over-rated?’ So I’m going to throw a few bumps at you and I want to get your immediate reaction, no long answer, just about what do you think about those? Fair? Ready to go? Okay. Block chain. Under-rated? Over-rated? What do you think? Under-rated You have to tell me a little bit more. I think about this in terms of health data. I think we need to be able to connect the dots and make health data much more free-flowing and inter-operable. And there are tremendous things happening in terms of the data standards and modernizing the digital standards around health data, but one thing that’s missing is identity. In fact, here at Microsoft, did you know that there are five employees named Peter Lee? It’s a real problem. And so how do we distinguish amongst those Peter Lees and block chain has the way to maintain that disambiguation and that’s super important for the future of health data. Telemedicine – one of the most talked-about technologies right now, and largely used. Under-rated? Over-rated? Super important but I would say that it’s bordering on over-rated today. Telemedicine—as we have seen during this pandemic, office visits to doctors in the US and Europe have fallen off by roughly 25-30% and about 5% of that has been taken up today by telemedicine, and there’s no doubt that that will grow. So in that sense, all the hype around telemedicine is important, and here at Microsoft, Microsoft Teams growth for telemedicine applications has been just on this hockey stick, up, so super, super important. But at the end of the day, I believe that the kind of direct, human contact between you and your healthcare provider, is going to continue to be profoundly important. And maybe even more important than ever. Sure, it may be mediated through listening devices that automate the documentation and so on, but I think the current hype, while it’s very exciting and is transformational, I think , I predict, that within two years ago it will all start to level off. Great, and moving on. By the way, we think that 25% of the patients HCP interactions could suit themselves very nicely actually for this and the rest being probably more the human touch. We’ll see, It’s recorded now Peter! Real world evidence—what do you think? Under-rated. Now real world evidence has been a theoretical idea, a somewhat academic idea for over a decade, maybe two decades. And I think its time is coming. You know, one thing we’ve seen in fact, during this pandemic, is the challenge of balancing the compassionate application of experimental therapies with the randomized control trial based approval of those therapies. Those things come in conflict with each other today. And as we have seen in this crisis, we need a way to merge these things together. And ultimately, that is real world evidence. And I think it not only will happen but it needs to happen. So I think within the next two to five years we will start to see more and more real world evidence. Companies, as well as big pharma companies, in fact I predict Novartis, will start to see significant profitable and positive human health impact from real world evidence operations. I know you’ve been a massive advocate as well on the hill about getting the right standards for this, and I think it’s probably an alliance of a few of us would be important today in that direction, and more unifying data standards. Augmented reality/virtual reality? Big buzz word. I think it’s actually under rated right now. This has been going through, it went through, maybe three or four years ago, a big hype cycle, and then kind of dropped off into a trough of disillusionment. But we are now, on the verge, over the next 12 months, of a new generation of augmented reality and virtual reality systems at consumer prices but at much more professional grade. I think it starts first with the need to be able to interact with people in better ways, virtually – to be able to play games and entertain yourself. I think the next 12 months are going to be super exciting for AR and VR. Two more Peter and then we’ll move to the audience and the questions are really flowing through, including on LinkedIn and on Pigeonhole. Those two are predictions, so maybe in 2025 or 2030, you decide— quick answer on AI replacing doctors by 2030, versus complementing them. Complementing them. I firmly believe that as well, and lastly, AI generated drugs... sci-fi or credible? I think we are already starting to see today designer proteins coming out completely through kind of AI search processes. There is, of course, still a long chain to get from those designer proteins to approved drugs but the kind of foundational discoveries, I think, by 2030 are going to be largely machine driven. Thanks Peter, for playing the game, and I’ll get us actually to the audience now and I’ll start with a question that was one of the most popular first questions, as well on LinkedIn, from ‘Cevrinne Interheiser’. Thanks for the question Cevrinne. Who are the big healthcare players of the future and why? More the usual big pharma suspects or more the Microsoft, Google, Apple, Amazon? And what are the key challenges coming ahead for pharma in next-generation healthcare? Clearly a loaded question there! Watch out what you are answering! Well, let me tackle - it’s hard to give a precise answer there but with respect to big tech companies like Microsoft, Apple, Google, Amazon and so on, I think there is so-called ‘secular shift’ of the digital infrastructure for healthcare that is going towards the cloud, and there are lots of reasons for that. But roughly speaking, it’s becoming more and more important to be able to aggregate all forms of data that are relevant to people’s health and wellness, logically into one place. And so, we are just seeing that shift taking place now, and the healthcare system is enormous. You know this is a 7.5 or 8 trillion dollar global market and so it will take on the order of 10 years for that shift to take place but the leading edge players are engaged in that shift right now. And so, I believe by 2030 it could very well be that healthcare workloads will be larger for these big tech companies than anything that they are doing today. So whether that means that big tech will have any sort of dominant position in healthcare, I think is maybe less likely but healthcare, inside those companies, will be extremely prominent. Now, to the question about who are going to be the big players, I think that this is something that is very complicated because every part of the world has a different situation, and in the United States market, for example, there is massive consolidation taking place, and on top of that there is, roughly speaking, a shift towards the single payer market of Medicare and Medicaid Systems because of the aging demographics in America so for example, today in the United States, over 55% healthcare spending comes from directly the US Government or is controlled by the US Government. And so, as we see that shift, that’s starting to be a part of a larger consolidation into a smaller number of large players And it’ll be interesting to see what emerges out of that. But then the situation has a different flavor and shape in the UK, in Europe, in China, in South America and so I think the main thing, maybe, I would say to answer that question is that the world of healthcare, the business world of healthcare, will continue to be extremely complicated, even 10 years from now. I think it’s a very, if I can add as well Peter, a bit from my perspective on this, I think it’s a very important question for another reason. I think underlying the question, we often get, is tech competing against pharma to some extent? Is tech going to displace pharma? Should we watch out? Which has big implications because it means should we really get to that? Our partnership is a testament to a firm belief that the two come very importantly hand in hand together as well because the challenges are so big that we cannot go and fix them just on our own. And we have very complementary skills. Obviously with Microsoft you talked about the computational power, the expertise in AI, the expertise in terms of AI methods as well that are fairly unique and how we think about those problems, grounded in real scientific questions, across tech as well. Amazon is also, with the acquisition of PillPack, thinking the way that experience with patients who are on five plus pills a day, can be taken on, which could be a very nice addition to their Prime type of offering, with much better satisfaction score for patients, which we all are craving for ultimately. I think we would be very remiss not to work to explore that together. Apple could be a very important partner in many ways, setting up those data standards, having a universal perspective for patients to have access to their own data in their own right as well, as part of that. My point being that there is really, beyond this question, an important piece that is complementary of the two— those two worlds coming together and smartly associating themselves, drawn into the right question that I think could make a real difference on this— especially at a time when there are so many inefficiencies that you are highlighting in the system itself. It’s true and the examples that you’ve listed, and in fact, Microsoft has a new product which is the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare, which includes things like the health bot and so on, and so as we think about the tech companies we are all now starting to offer products in the healthcare space and in a way, I think the water is rising, that delineates what is the healthcare industry and what is the tech industry? And as the tech industry becomes more and more relevant to healthcare, the types of offerings that you’ll see from the tech companies is going to become more and more specific to healthcare. It is also illustrated by the fact that even though we compete very hard against each other, companies like Microsoft, Google, Amazon, IBM, Salesforce, we also work together—recognizing that we need to align and agree together to adopt, for example, new health data interoperability standards. And if we all pledge and do that together, we increase the ability for the healthcare system, to become really truly digital and move into the cloud ecosystem. And so, there’s sort of a rising tide, and there is this combination of competition and co-operation in order to build this future of healthcare. Peter, I’ll go back to the board and I’ll try to cover as many of the questions as we can, even if we go a bit more to the point on some. The top one now is what is the path of regulatory approval of AI data methods, which I know is a topic close to your heart as well. Yeah, this is an active area of discussion, actually in multiple continents. Let me just focus on the FDA in the US but there are similar discussions going on in other parts of the world, as well. You know, today, for example, in our work with Adaptive Biotechnologies, we have a situation where there is a single machine learning algorithm that, depending on what biological data sets are fed into it, gives you a different diagnostic application. Maybe a diagnostic application for coeliac disease or a different diagnostic application for ovarian cancer or for COVID-19. And so the first fundamental question is, is it necessary to go through separate regulatory approvals from start to finish for all those different applications, given that the fundamental diagnostic infrastructure remains unchanged? And that’s a very complex question and it looks increasingly likely that there are going to be new forms or new approval processes that help to expedite that last stage of approvals in the case that the algorithms don’t change. Another element to this, to your earlier question about real world evidence, and about transformations in clinical trials, and I think that what’s been happening in the pharmaceutical industry, in medical research, around evolving platforms for drug development and vaccine development, have led to a need for more flexible clinical trials processes that can address multiple endpoints and in the case of a crisis like COVID-19, an ability to be able to extract the real world evidence and feed those into trial processes. And so, as we are looking through all of those things, what we see today is a tremendous intensity of thought by regulators and policy makers on multiple continents. Companies like Novartis and Microsoft are directly feeding input into these thought processes. COVID-19 has been a dramatic accelerator for some of that thought process and so I think we’re going to start seeing some regulatory changes happening very soon, within the next 12-24 months, that will start to take the first of what are probably going to be 50 or more steps towards new models for regulatory approval of AI systems. I can probably add to that as well, especially in the current times, in a COVID world, that the regulatory bodies, and FDA probably top of the list, have really also come to the party and encourage us, much more so than the world might imagine, to be very innovative in that domain as well, with the right rigor, but I think there is a real partnership there that is established in many ways. Peter, related to this, there’s a question on the board about what are the top three challenges for AI in precision healthcare? It’s a fair question because there’s been a lot being promised on it; it’s very tough in some set-up to implement. Clearly data harmonization comes to mind. We’ve had many promises as well for cardiologists to be able to rely on AI methods to justify diagnosis and be implemented into the workflows. It is hard when you get into the hospital set-up with the real world set-up that is behind. What do you see as the top three that are still holding us back, that we need to find a way through? Well, that’s a very easy question to answer because the top three are data, data and data. In fact, if you think about the amazing digitization of healthcare data over the past 15 years, when this pandemic struck the world, you would have thought that we would be perfectly positioned to use that data, to use AI, to answer some seemingly simple questions, questions like where is the infection spreading next? And who are the vulnerable people in those areas? What is the capacity and utilization of hospitals and clinics and health systems in those areas to handle the coming load? Where do we have adequate supply of PPE and of testing? And if not, where is there a good supply that we could reposition? Questions like this are hidden, are latent, in the petabytes of digital data that is present in the healthcare systems, and yet what we found, over and over again, in the response to COVID-19, is an inability to connect these together. An inability, for example, to connect information in the enterprise resource planning systems in a health system with the data in electronic health records, and an inability to connect those with the data in public health authorities, and with government agencies. And so, we have all of this digital foundation and yet we still have work to do in order to allow all these things to be seamlessly connected, to have that interoperability. The need and the potential is just, cannot be over stated. If we are able to do these things, we have the AI algorithms and tools that would allow a tremendously more effective response. And so, today, in a way, we’ve built the jet engines; we don’t quite have the fuel in the airplane yet to make us zoom forward. And if I have any reason for optimism about the future, it’s that COVID-19 has brought into very sharp focus a small set of key problems that if solved will better position us for the future. Not just for the next pandemic but just for everyday healthcare. It is very well put Peter and obviously resonates very strongly with us. I really hope we can seize that moment because you need many parties to come to the table as well, to fix it together, to agree on the right standards as well, behind, and I know you’ve been a massive advocate of that and actually in the spirit of collaboration you’ve gone to the hill as well with the likes of Google and others to try to really influence that agenda, so different...as well in there. The next question, and I’ll tie two questions together, what needs do you currently lack in the digital industry for the elderly, and there was a question as well from Vernon Engelbecht on LinkedIn which touched on that, which is ‘look, it’s very easy to get excited about data, about technology, about data science among us to some extent but how do you bring everybody on board on that journey – the patient, but also the doctors, the nurses? How do we bring that change management and do we really put it to good use for the right experiences at the end of the day? What are we still missing in that side of the equation? Yeah, let me touch on the point about the elderly first, and maybe this gets to your under-rated/over-rated question about telemedicine. here is just an amazing shift across several continents with aging populations. And so both formal and informal care-giving, I think, is really about to hit, maybe even something approaching crisis stage. And it’s something that Novartis, you know, has been really in the lead in thinking about this. Because these things directly affect not only what we do in healthcare and life sciences, but for all enterprises these things have an impact on productivity, and on the welfare of workers. Because many more people now are becoming informal care-givers to the elderly. And so, to get back to the telemedicine point, this is one place, you know, where sort of remote monitoring, remote sensing, and the ability to stay connected becomes so important. This is something that, frankly, if I were to criticize our work here at Microsoft, up until a year or two ago, we haven’t spent enough time thinking about it. But we’re changing now. We’re really starting to try to understand if there is Microsoft for people’s lives, not just Microsoft for people at work, what would be the most important area to focus on? And this is one area that’s really rising to near the top. And so, as we have been thinking harder and harder about our IOT solutions and platforms, our connectivity and data interoperability, our remote sensing devices in the home, things like Teams— we now have started to shift our thinking to think about the case of the informal caregiver having to care for an elderly parent or a loved one. And you know, I think that this is something that is sadly going to become one of the next big things. And we’re hoping that we’re thinking about it early enough to stay ahead of it. I have to say, we’ve been so inspired by some of the thought processes and some of the work going on at Novartis, because Novartis has been thinking about this particularly as it relates to age-related neurological diseases in the future, and so we’ve taken some cues from our work with you on this. On the second question about how do you get buy-in from doctors, you know, we have had some concerns about this. In our work with Nuance Communications, where we’re trying to install devices into exam rooms, and listen to doctor/patient conversations— it helps to automate the construction of an encounter note, and it is a conversation. There are questions about privacy. There are questions about legal issues. There are questions about the quality of the results and whether it actually saves time. Because no doctor wants to take the time to learn a new system that ultimately is not productive. But what we see is that doctors themselves are the best advocates to convince other doctors to adopt new workflows. And so, when we develop a new system to do better image segmentation for radiologists, or we develop a new documentation system, we find those early adopters that really embrace and inform us how best to position these. And then, work with them to understand, how do we talk to administrators and other doctors about the benefits of this? And, you know, it’s a process again of being a learner and a listener, really trying to be humble and understand how can we help, how can we help you have a more satisfying and better life as a doctor? It’s interesting how you bring it back, effectively, to culture at the end— the learning piece as well in there. I’ll take, Peter, two more if it’s OK for you. The first one is a very important one and there are several questions along this range. I’ll try to give it justice but what do you consider is the major ethical risk from using AI in healthcare and is Microsoft considering ethical challenges when building new tools? Side question to that—who owns the data? So, clearly quite a few questions in different formulations along those lines. Obviously a critical topic for all of us. Yes, the second question is very easy to answer because Microsoft never owns the data. In fact, we have a policy in our company of never being the custodian of health data. So, for example, when Novartis uses our cloud, our cloud technology architecture is set up so that you get, what we call, an ‘instance’ of our cloud. It’s as though Novartis is all alone on our cloud with no other company or person, from Microsoft or any other company, able to gain access. And so, when we collaborate together, the only way that we can collaborate that involves access to data, is if Novartis temporarily makes someone from Microsoft, essentially a temporary employee, and that happens very rarely. And so, we try to supply the infrastructure, algorithms, capabilities, but we never have visibility or access into the data. Every cloud company has a different policy around this but with Microsoft, we’re particularly strict about that. Remind me again, Bertrand, about the first question? Ethics of AI. How do you think about the ethics of AI and embedding that into any tools that you develop? So, yes, ethics is incredibly important and first thing to say is that we have a formal governance process that is called ‘Ether’ which is an ethics review board within Microsoft that is directly focused on AI and in fact, covers AI applications in healthcare. And so, as we develop products and services, or even embark on research projects, typically, if it involves healthcare, people’s personal health information, anything along those lines, there is a formal review process that goes through a study work group, and then ultimately to a CEO level and CTO level board called Ether and that provides guidance on things. Sometimes we have to communicate broadly about new policy positions so, for example, when COVID-19 was on the rise, there were quite a few questions about contact tracing and the extent to which people within Microsoft could engage in the development of contact tracing applications, and so, through the Ether process, and through privacy, talking to our Chief Privacy Officer, we developed policies around seven privacy principles that any contact tracing platform developed by Microsoft must strictly adhere to, in order to be approved. And we published that, actually not just in Microsoft but we published that openly, to share with the world, as a model for others to follow. So that ethics, I think, that ethical governance process, is extremely important to us. It’s a bit of bureaucracy within Microsoft that people actually here embrace. Now there is maybe a more broad question about the ethics of AI in healthcare and life science applications that pertains to safety, as well as the potential for bias and lack of transparency. And these are all questions that are active areas of research within Microsoft research today. We have a major research effort in something called ‘FATE’ which is an acronym for Fairness, Accountability, Transparency and Ethics in AI. And that has been developing through deep research, spanning social science to computer science, the principles in understanding about this and even developing new tools to develop more explainable AI models. And it’s something that we think is extremely important. There can be an over optimism from the medical community about what AI can do, and an over optimism from the AI community about the kinds of problems in healthcare that can be attacked. And so we must guard against possible dangers of over exuberance by really understanding deeply, from the research perspective, these ethical considerations. You know, we’re sharing a lot of this as well. How do we avoid the bias into the AI methods at the very core of it, as we do in our clinical trials. How do we avoid the black box effect and non-reproducibility as well of our analysis that we do beyond this. To add one, that’s interesting, because we spend a lot of time discussing this. The most important piece to me is, beyond the guidelines we are putting in, is also as a team across all associates across our company, is to really discuss that, going into real case studies, so that we can be principle based and making sure that we have the same understanding beyond what good looks like to, towards deciding that. To add one that we’re seriously thinking about in our Code of Ethics around AI and ethics, we’re thinking about having a principle as well around ESG and safety of the environment. We are consuming huge amounts of data and there is actually bad AI and good AI in terms of efficacy of the method that we’re using. So how do we make sure that we take that top of mind as well so that we can have a cleaner world in that space as well—things you might not expect to connect but that we see as important as well? Peter, I’ll close on—I’m getting a sign here—so I’ll close on one more question which I think is a very good one to finish off on, which is, from Peter, how would you say that AI has delivered as on the most consequential health issue of our lifetime i.e. COVID-19? And there was a question on LinkedIn as well, related to this, from Bill Price, how will AI improve global health? But maybe, a great way, with the urgency of COVID, to finish on. What have you seen? What is your biggest hope? And what can we practically do more of to take on those challenges? Yes, you know, we’ve just barely scratched the surface. Some of the data challenges actually have held us back, but even just scratching the surface, we saw some amazing things happen. You know, the drug and vaccine efforts are all, uniformly have had some element of AI now. Machine learning and data science have just been baked into the very discovery process. And so, what we see emerging today have had elements of AI. The health bot has been shocking, even to me, to see the adoption of these AI-powered chatbots to help hospitals and clinics around the world. Our government agencies, even government agencies like the CDC, helped people self-assess and triage their symptoms. There has been an incredible amount of AI applied to real world evidence. You know, in the United States, there were over 80,000 patients that were transfused experimentally with COVID-19 convalescent plasma and so the analysis of the electronic health record data from those experimental transfusions has been, in part, powered through machine-learning techniques and has resulted in emergency use authorization by the FDA for that treatment. And so we see, just over and over again, these sort of point contributions through new data science and machine learning, and yet, we are just so dissatisfied with those things. As meaningful as they’ve been for all the lives that those things have undoubtedly saved, we just know that there’s so much more and so much better that we could be doing today when and if we can address those data challenges. So it’s sort of a good news – bad news thing. If anything gives me real optimism for the future, it’s that all of this has just focused our minds and really motivated us to do so much better the next time around. Peter, I cannot think of a better way to end. I really owe you a massive thank-you for today, for spending the time, for sharing those learnings but also for being an incredible partner and for what you do for society more broadly, and we’re delighted that you’ve really made the step into healthcare as well. Also, one thing that always impresses me with you is also your ability at the same time to go very deep into the technology, to put yourself into 2030 and to work backwards from there and at the same time to bring it back to earth in terms of in the doctor’s shoes, in the patient’s shoes, in the elderly shoes, or simply in terms of culture across what it means from Microsoft’s point of view. I think it’s a remarkable trait. I also wanted to thank the audience for attending, for great questions and there are so many more that I see coming up as well. We’ll definitely have a deeper look at each of those. Thank you for joining in. Thank you for your curiosity. As Peter put it, we are only scratching the surface. Those are some of the most important challenges of our time, ahead of us with an absolute sense of urgency. I fundamentally believe that it’s by coming together, having that curiosity, that we can have a stronger chance of taking those on. Thank you and good night, good afternoon everyone. 