Legal Proceedings.")We have a number of intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one time or periodic payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.Our joint ventures and strategic relationships involve numerous risks.We have entered into strategic relationships to manufacture products and develop new manufacturing process technologies and products.  These relationships include our IMFT NAND Flash joint venture with Intel, our Inotera DRAM joint venture with Nanya and our MP Mask joint venture with Photronics.  These joint ventures and strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations.  These risks include the following:•our interests could diverge from our partners or we may not be able to agree with partners on ongoing manufacturing and operational activities, or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in our joint venture;•we may experience difficulties in transferring technology to joint ventures;•we may experience difficulties and delays in ramping production at joint ventures;•our control over the operations of our joint ventures is limited;•we may recognize losses from our equity method investments in future periods;•due to financial constraints, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their commitments to us or our joint ventures and may pose credit risks for our transactions with them;•due to differing business models or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our joint ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us;•cash flows may be inadequate to fund increased capital requirements;•we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our joint ventures and partners;•the terms of our partnering arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our partners.If our joint ventures and strategic relationships are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 15The operations of the MMJ Companies will be subject to continued oversight by the Japan Court during the pendency of the corporate reorganization proceedings.Because the plans of reorganization of the MMJ Companies provide for ongoing payments to creditors following the closing of our acquisition of MMJ, the Japan Proceedings are continuing, and the MMJ Companies remain subject to the oversight of the Japan Court and of the trustees (including a trustee designated by us, who we refer to as the business trustee, and a trustee designated by the Japan Court, who we refer to as the legal trustee), pending completion of the Japan Proceedings.  The Japan Proceedings and oversight of the Japan Court are expected to continue until the final creditor payment is made under the MMJ Companies' plans of reorganization, which is scheduled to occur in December 2019, but may occur on a later date to the extent any claims of creditors remain unfixed on the final scheduled installment payment date.  Although we may be able to petition the court to terminate the Japan Proceedings once two-thirds of all payments under the plans of reorganization are made, there can be no assurance that the Japan Court will grant any such petition.During the pendency of the Japan Proceedings, the MMJ Companies are obligated to provide periodic financial reports to the Japan Court and may be required to obtain the consent of the Japan Court prior to taking a number of significant actions relating to their businesses, including transferring or disposing of, or acquiring, certain material assets, incurring or guaranteeing material indebtedness, settling disputes or entering into certain material agreements.  The consent of the legal trustee may also be required for matters that would likely have a material impact on the operations or assets of the MMJ Companies and their subsidiaries or for transfers of material assets, to the extent the matters or transfers would reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect execution of the plans of reorganization of the MMJ Companies.  Accordingly, during the pendency of the Japan Proceedings, our ability to effectively integrate the MMJ Companies as part of our global operations or to cause the MMJ Companies to take certain actions that we deem advisable for their businesses could be adversely affected if the Japan Court or the legal trustee is unwilling to consent to various actions that we may wish to take with respect to the MMJ Companies.If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance.  Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs.  We maintain operations and continuously implement new product and process technology at our manufacturing operations which are widely dispersed in multiple locations in several countries including the U.S., Singapore, Taiwan, Japan and China.  Additionally, our control over operations at our IMFT, Inotera, MP Mask and Tera Probe joint ventures is limited by our agreements with our partners.  From time to time, we have experienced disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment, equipment failures, earthquakes or other environmental acts.  If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers' requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers.  This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to customer relationships, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.We may incur additional restructure or other charges in future periods.In recent periods, we have implemented restructure activities and may implement restructure initiatives in future periods.  As a result, we could incur restructure charges (including but not limited to severance and other termination benefits, losses on disposition or impairment of equipment or other long-lived assets and inventory write downs), lose production output, lose key personnel and experience disruptions in our operations and difficulties in the timely delivery of products.  In connection with these actions, we recorded charges of $40 million for 2014 and $126 million for 2013.  We do not anticipate incurring any significant additional costs for these prior restructure activities.  We may incur additional restructure charges or other losses associated with other initiatives in future periods. 16Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Across our multi-national operations, there are transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency), primarily the euro, the Singapore dollar, the New Taiwan dollar, the yen and the yuan.  We recorded net losses from changes in currency exchange rates of $28 million for 2014 and $229 million for 2013.  Based on our foreign currency exposures from monetary assets and liabilities, offset by balance sheet hedges, we estimate that a 10% adverse change in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would result in losses of approximately $7 million as of August 28, 2014.  In addition, a significant portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in foreign currencies.  Exchange rates for some of these currencies against the U.S. dollar, particularly the yen, have been volatile in recent periods. If these currencies strengthen against the U.S. dollar, our manufacturing costs could significantly increase.  In the event that the exchange rates for U.S. dollar adversely change against our foreign currency exposures in the euro, Singapore dollar, New Taiwan dollar, the yen and the yuan, our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected.We may make future acquisitions and/or alliances, which involve numerous risks.Acquisitions and the formation or operation of alliances, such as joint ventures and other partnering arrangements, involve numerous risks including the following:•integrating the operations, technologies and products of acquired or newly formed entities into our operations;•increasing capital expenditures to upgrade and maintain facilities;•increased debt levels;•the assumption of unknown or underestimated liabilities;•the use of cash to finance a transaction, which may reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities;•diverting management's attention from normal daily operations;•managing larger or more complex operations and facilities and employees in separate and diverse geographic areas; •hiring and retaining key employees;•requirements imposed by governmental authorities in connection with the regulatory review of a transaction, which may include, among other things, divestitures or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business;•inability to realize synergies or other expected benefits;•failure to maintain customer, vendor and other relationships;•inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company's internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and/or environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption, human resource, or other policies or practices; and•impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a result of changing business conditions, technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired business.In recent years, supply of memory products has significantly exceeded customer demand resulting in significant declines in average selling prices for DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products.  Resulting operating losses have led to the deterioration in the financial condition of a number of industry participants, including the liquidation of Qimonda and the 2012 bankruptcy filing by Elpida (now known as MMJ).  These types of proceedings often lead to court-directed processes involving the sale of related businesses or assets.  We believe the global memory industry is experiencing a period of consolidation as a result of these market conditions and other factors, and we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions and similar opportunities arising out of these industry conditions.  To the extent we are successful in completing any such transactions, we could be subject to some or all of the risks described above, including the risks pertaining to funding, assumption of liabilities, integration challenges and increases in debt that may accompany such transactions.  Acquisitions of, or alliances with, high-technology companies are inherently risky and may not be successful and may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 17The limited availability of raw materials, supplies or capital equipment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our operations require raw materials, and in certain cases, third party services, that meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services.  However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials and services that meet our standards.  In some cases, materials, components or services are provided by a single supplier.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials or components such as silicon wafers, controllers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, photoresist, lead frames and molding compound.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  We and/or our suppliers could be affected by laws and regulations enacted in response to concerns regarding climate change, which could increase the cost and limit the supply of our raw materials.  In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If our supply of raw materials or services is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes.  For certain key types of equipment, including photolithography tools, we are sometimes dependent on a single supplier.  From time to time we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to the supplier's limited capacity.  Our inability to timely obtain this equipment could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce costs.  Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and increase our overall costs of the ramp.  If we are unable to timely obtain advanced semiconductor manufacturing equipment, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including among others, Singapore, where we currently have arrangements that allow us to compute our tax provision at rates below the local statutory rates.  Our domestic and international taxes are dependent upon the distribution of our earnings among these different jurisdictions.  Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liabilities in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including challenges by tax authorities to our tax structure, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations.  We and our subsidiaries file income tax returns with the U.S. federal government, various U.S. states and various foreign jurisdictions throughout the world.  Our U.S. federal and state tax returns remain open to examination for 2010 through 2014.  In addition, tax returns open to examination in multiple foreign taxing jurisdictions range from the years 2005 to 2014.  The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.We may not utilize all of our net deferred tax assets.We have substantial deferred tax assets, which include, among others, net operating loss and credit carryforwards.  As of August 28, 2014, our U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, including uncertain tax benefits, were $3.89 billion and $1.71 billion, respectively, which, if not utilized, will expire at various dates from 2015 through 2033.  As of August 28, 2014, our foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $5.37 billion, including $3.95 billion pertaining to Japan, which, if not utilized, substantially all will expire at various dates from 2018 through 2023.  As of August 28, 2014, we had valuation allowances of $1.29 billion and $979 million against our net deferred tax assets in the U.S. and Japan, respectively.A downturn in the worldwide economy may harm our business.Downturns in the worldwide economy have harmed our business in the past and future downturns could also adversely affect our business.  Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that incorporate our products, such as personal computers, mobile devices, solid-state drives and servers.  Reduced demand for these products could result in significant decreases in our average selling prices and product sales.  A deterioration of current conditions in worldwide credit markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures.  In addition, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties.  Difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of loss on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults.  As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 18Our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters and other events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and geological events including earthquakes or tsunamis that could disrupt operations.  In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations.  A natural disaster, fire, explosion or other event that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 84% of our consolidated net sales for 2014.  In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States.  In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Taiwan, Singapore and Japan.  Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:•export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, customs regulations and processes and restrictions on the transfer of funds;•compliance with U.S. and international laws involving international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export control laws and similar rules and regulations;•political and economic instability;•problems with the transportation or delivery of our products;•issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest;•longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•compliance with trade, technical standards and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions;•contractual and regulatory limitations on our ability to maintain flexibility with our staffing levels;•disruptions to our manufacturing operations as a result of actions imposed by foreign governments;•changes in economic policies of foreign governments; and•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Breaches of our network security could expose us to losses.We manage and store on our network systems various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations.  We also process, store, and transmit large amounts of data relating to our customers and employees, including sensitive personal information.  Computer programmers and hackers may be able to gain unauthorized access to our network system and steal proprietary information, compromise confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns.  These parties may also be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that disrupt our operations and create security vulnerabilities.  Attacks on our network systems could result in significant losses and damage our reputation with customers.We are subject to counterparty default risks. We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash deposits, investments, capped-call contracts on our stock and derivative instruments.  As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default on its performance obligations.  A counterparty may not comply with their contractual commitments which could then lead to their defaulting on their obligations with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to take action to mitigate our exposure.  Additionally, our ability to mitigate our exposures may be constrained by the terms of our contractual arrangements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action.  If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceeding.  In the event of such default, we could incur significant losses, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19Compliance with new regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.Increased focus on environmental protection and social responsibility initiatives led to the passage of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and its implementing SEC regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new supply chain diligence and disclosure requirements for certain manufacturers of products containing specific minerals that may originate in or near the Democratic Republic of the Congo (the "DRC") and finance or benefit local armed groups.  These "conflict minerals" are commonly found in materials used in the manufacture of semiconductors.  The implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of these materials.  This in turn may affect our ability to obtain materials necessary for the manufacture of our products in sufficient quantities and may affect related material pricing.  Some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that our products are DRC conflict free.