Legal Proceedings" for additional details on these lawsuits.)We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us.  A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes.  Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one time or periodic payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.Products that fail to meet specifications, are defective or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us.Products that do not meet specifications or that contain, or are perceived by our customers to contain, defects or that are otherwise incompatible with end uses could impose significant costs on us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.  From time to time we experience problems with nonconforming, defective or incompatible products after we have shipped such products.  In recent periods we have further diversified and expanded our product offerings which could potentially increase the chance that one or more of our products could fail to meet specifications in a particular application.  As a result of these problems we could be adversely affected in several ways, including the following:  19•we may be required to compensate customers for costs incurred or damages caused by defective or incompatible product or replace products;•we could incur a decrease in revenue or adjustment to pricing commensurate with the reimbursement of such costs or alleged damages; and•we may encounter adverse publicity, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products.New product development may be unsuccessful.We are developing new products that complement our traditional memory products or leverage their underlying design or process technology.  We have made significant investments in product and process technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new semiconductor product development over the next several years.  The process to develop DRAM, NAND Flash, NOR Flash and certain specialty memory products requires us to demonstrate advanced functionality and performance, many times well in advance of a planned ramp of production, in order to secure design wins with our customers.  There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will allow us to recover costs of development efforts.If our manufacturing process is disrupted, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.We manufacture products using highly complex processes that require technologically advanced equipment and continuous modification to improve yields and performance.  Difficulties in the manufacturing process or the effects from a shift in product mix can reduce yields or disrupt production and may increase our per gigabit manufacturing costs.  We maintain operations and continuously implement new product and process technology at our manufacturing operations which are widely dispersed in multiple locations in several countries including the U.S., Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Israel and China.  Additionally, our control over operations at our IMFT, Inotera and MP Mask and Tera Probe joint ventures is limited by our agreements with our partners.  From time to time, we have experienced disruptions in our manufacturing process as a result of power outages, improperly functioning equipment and equipment failures.  If production at a fabrication facility is disrupted for any reason, manufacturing yields may be adversely affected or we may be unable to meet our customers' requirements and they may purchase products from other suppliers.  This could result in a significant increase in manufacturing costs or loss of revenues or damage to customer relationships, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Consolidation of industry participants and governmental assistance to some of our competitors may contribute to uncertainty in the semiconductor memory industry and negatively impact our ability to compete.In recent years, supply of memory products has significantly exceeded customer demand resulting in significant declines in average selling prices of DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products and substantial operating losses by us and our competitors.  The operating losses as well as limited access to sources of financing have led to the deterioration in the financial condition of a number of industry participants and significant recent consolidation and, in certain cases, liquidation.  Some of our competitors may try to enhance their capacity and lower their cost structure through consolidation.  In addition, some governments have provided, and may be considering providing, significant financial assistance to some of our competitors.  Consolidation of industry competitors could put us at a competitive disadvantage.The limited availability of raw materials, supplies or capital equipment could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our operations require raw materials that meet exacting standards.  We generally have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials.  However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards.  In some cases, materials are provided by a single supplier.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases including helium, photoresist, lead frames and molding compound.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  In addition, disruptions in transportation lines could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If our supply of raw materials is disrupted or our lead times extended, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 20Our operations are dependent on our ability to procure advanced semiconductor equipment that enables the transition to lower cost manufacturing processes.  For certain key types of equipment, including photolithography tools, we are sometimes dependent on a single supplier.  In recent periods we have experienced difficulties in obtaining some equipment on a timely basis due to the supplier's limited capacity.  Our inability to timely obtain this equipment could adversely affect our ability to transition to next generation manufacturing processes and reduce costs.  Delays in obtaining equipment could also impede our ability to ramp production at new facilities and increase our overall costs of the ramp.  If we are unable to timely obtain advanced semiconductor equipment, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our results of operations could be affected by natural disasters and other events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and geological events including earthquakes or tsunamis that could disrupt operations.  In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations.  A natural disaster, fire, chemical explosion or other event that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited.We have a valuation allowance against substantially all U.S. net deferred tax assets as well as $1.5 billion related to our foreign subsidiaries.  As of August 29, 2013, our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards were $4.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively.  If not utilized, our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2033.  As of August 29, 2013, our federal and state tax credit carryforwards were $238 million and $203 million, respectively.  If not utilized, our federal and state tax credit carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2033.  As of August 29, 2013, our foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $7.0 billion, of which $5.9 billion pertains to Elpida.  We have placed a valuation allowance against $4.7 billion of these foreign net operating loss carryforwards, of which $3.8 billion pertains to Elpida.  If not utilized, our foreign net operating loss carryforwards will expire at various dates through 2023. We face risks associated with our international sales and operations that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.Sales to customers outside the United States approximated 83% of our consolidated net sales for 2013.  In addition, a substantial portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States.  In particular, a significant portion of our manufacturing operations are concentrated in Singapore.  Our international sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:•export and import duties, changes to import and export regulations, and restrictions on the transfer of funds;•compliance with U.S. and international laws involving international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export control laws and similar rules and regulations;•political and economic instability;•problems with the transportation or delivery of our products;•issues arising from cultural or language differences and labor unrest;•longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•compliance with trade, technical standards and other laws in a variety of jurisdictions;•contractual and regulatory limitations on our ability to maintain flexibility with our staffing levels;•disruptions to our manufacturing operations as a result of actions imposed by foreign governments;•changes in economic policies of foreign governments; and•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.These factors may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 21Breaches of our network security could expose us to losses.We manage and store on our network systems, various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations.  We also process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers, including sensitive personal information.  Computer programmers and hackers may be able to gain unauthorized access to our network system and steal proprietary information, compromise confidential information, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns.  These parties may also be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that disrupt our operations and create security vulnerabilities.  Attacks on our network systems could result in significant losses and damage our reputation with customers.We are subject to counterparty default risks. We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that subject us to counterparty default risks, including cash deposits, investments, foreign currency option and forward contracts, and capped-call contracts on our stock.  As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default on its performance obligations.  A counterparty may not comply with their contractual commitments which could then lead to their defaulting on their obligations with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to take action to mitigate our exposure.  Additionally, our ability to mitigate our exposures may be constrained by the terms of our contractual arrangements or because market conditions prevent us from taking effective action.  If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable laws governing the bankruptcy proceeding.  In the event of such default, we could incur significant losses, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Compliance with new regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.Increased focus on environmental protection and social responsibility initiatives led to the passage of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), and its implementing SEC regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new supply chain diligence and disclosure requirements for certain manufacturers of products containing specific minerals that may originate in or near the Democratic Republic of the Congo (the "DRC") and finance or benefit local armed groups.  These "conflict minerals" are commonly found in materials used in the manufacture of semiconductors.  The implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of these materials.  This in turn may affect our ability to obtain materials necessary for the manufacture of our products in sufficient quantities and may affect related material pricing.  Some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that our products are DRC conflict free.