Risk Factors."  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.The functional currency for all of our operations is the U.S. dollar.  As a result of our foreign operations, we incur costs and carry certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies.  The substantial majority of our revenues are transacted in the U.S. dollar; however, significant amounts of our operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the shekel, the yen and the yuan.  We have established currency risk management programs for our operating expenditures and capital purchases to hedge against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates.  We utilize currency forward and option contracts in these hedging programs.  Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements.  We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.To hedge our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates from our monetary assets and liabilities, we utilize a rolling hedge strategy with currency forward contracts that generally mature within 35 days.  Based on our foreign currency exposures from monetary assets and liabilities, offset by balance sheet hedges, we estimate that a 10% adverse change in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would result in losses of approximately U.S. $19 million as of August 29, 2013 and U.S. $8 million as of August 30, 2012.  To hedge the exposure of changes in cash flows from changes in currency exchange rates for certain capital expenditures and forecasted operating cash flows, we utilize currency forward contracts that generally mature within 12 months and currency options that generally mature from 12 to 18 months.  Under the terms and conditions of the Elpida Companies' respective plans of reorganization, the Elpida Companies are obligated to pay 200 billion yen (or the equivalent of $2.05 billion based on exchange rates as of August 29, 2013), less certain expenses of their reorganization proceedings and certain other items, to the secured and unsecured creditors (the "Elpida Creditor Installment Payments") in respect of the Elpida Companies' pre-petition creditors and their related claims.  Substantially all of the $615 million we paid in connection with the acquisition of Elpida was deposited into accounts that are legally restricted for payment to the secured and unsecured creditors of Elpida in October 2013.  The remaining 140 billion yen is due in six annual installments payable at the end of each calendar year beginning in 2014, with payments of 20 billion yen in each of 2014 through 2017, and payments of 30 billion yen in each of 2018 and 2019.  To mitigate the risk that increases in exchange rates have on the payments due in 2014 and 2015, we entered into forward contracts to purchase 20 billion yen on November 28, 2014 and 10 billion yen on November 27, 2015.  In addition, the Elpida Companies' cash and equivalent balances in yen mitigate the foreign currency exchange risk associated with the yen remaining installment payments due in 2015 and after.  (See "Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Debt.")  Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the yen could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 51