 Davide Cironi: The history of composite materials is much more interesting, fascinating and romantic than many of us can imagine. What we are going to do today is making the protagonists talk about it. From the pioneers of this technology who invented, imagined and predicted the future of the sports car more than 30 years ago. Horacio Pagani: When I was 14/15, I saw the first works done with fiberglass in Argentina and the shapes you could make were impressive. This car had a fiberglass body and the models used to make it were simple, made of wood, chalk or metal sheet. You put everything together and then the mold was easy to make with the same fiberglass. Giampaolo Dallara: In the Modena area, but not just here, car bodies were handmade: there were very skilled artisans who hammered the sheet and they shaped it with some wooden or steel templates to recreate the lines. But every single car was different. Attilio Masini: That was a classic world where the product was made by hand. The product had to show the excellence of metals: aluminum body, steel frame... Everything crafted and shaped by these unique people who did everything without the modern technology Dallara: Those people got fewer after a while and there was also the need to make something less expensive. We thought about it when we made our first car, the SP10, and decided to make a fiberglass body for it. I had only worked with metal bodies, but there was a company in Sant'Ilario d'Enza, between Reggio Emilia and Parma, that made fiberglass bodies and we went there to understand how to make them. We kept using it for a long time, so the first time we used fiberglass was to make the bodies of our cars. Pagani: Back then when the Countach was being made, cars had a tubular frame and an aluminum body. Masini: Every car on the production line started with what I called "a gong" because the hammer blow on the body seemed like a celebration of a new car born. Even if you were near the offices, a mile away from the body department, you still heard it. Pagani: Fiberglass was used for small interior parts or the bumpers, but it wasn't largely used. Dallara: We later understood that in the US at the time Chaparral, a racing division of technicians that helped GM understanding vehicle dynamics, had already made a fiberglass frame. Pagani: The advent of composite materials became a very interesting opportunity. Masini: Giulio Alfieri had a vision for composite materials. You didn't see him often around the factory, but when he came, you remembered him for an entire month. I remember for example when he moved from technical to racing managing, at the time we made offshore engines for nautical races. An engine blew during a race and on Monday he went to the bodywork department where there was the best metal welding expert. I was behind them when Alfieri brought a nylon bag with some parts inside and a few wires which seemed to be made of brass, but he said it was actually gold and asked the expert not to waste any because that was true gold. I didn't understand why he asked him to weld those parts with gold, but the engine didn't blow up and the boat won the race. Dallara: I remember when we tested the De Tomaso F1 in England with Frank Williams, we saw a McLaren body made of fiberglass reinforced by carbon strings. We used aluminum as many other F1 cars, but some were starting to make carbon fiber bodies in England which were stiffer. Dallara: We started thinking about how to make not only the fiberglass body, but even a carbon fiber chassis. Nobody was doing it for commercial road cars. At the time Harvey Postlethwaite was working for Ferrari and knew the problem. He helped me and we managed to become the first to have made carbon fiber chassis for road cars. Then we made a Formula 3 too. Many told us we were crazy, but in the end we didn't spend much more. Luckily we were right and aimed to the right objective. Jean Alesi: My generation of racing drivers was bound to composite materials. Technicians started to use them to have stronger, lighter cars. At the time the low weight was everyone's goal. Dallara: With many doubts, trials and errors, we luckily started to study them. Alesi: The first time I drove a car with carbon fiber suspension braces I was worried it couldn't bear the forces, but they were actually good and they still use them today. I was lucky enough to live this change in the motorsport world. Stefano Domenicali: The first composite department in Sant'Agata Bolognese started in 1983 thanks to the knowledge coming from Seattle with the first carbon fiber/Kevlar components for the Boeing 767. Masini: Giulio Alfieri was the one who had this vision at the time, he wanted to introduce new technologies and bring the first applications of composites on vehicles. The thing he did was simply putting an ad on the Resto del Carlino (Italian newspaper) for an engineer who had experience with composite materials. In the US, engineer Vizzini saw this ad where Lamborghini Automobili was looking for an engineer with experience gained in aerospace companies. The first application of composites Lamborghini Automobili introduced on this unique product, a sort of Gioconda, lacked what I call "the frame": then the first composite department was made thanks to the expertise of Rosario Vizzini who came from Boeing and helped the company to make the first steps towards a true carbon fiber frame, something nearly inconceivable in a company where everything was very artisanal as I said before. Pagani: When Lamborghini decided to make the Countach Evoluzione, which was the first project of a road car with composite frame parts, it was a true challenge. Masini: We were developing the Quattrovalvole and it required not only another step towards technology, but also a new captivating design without modifying the original Countach design. Pagani: Thanks to my passion for coachbuilding and design, I thought that we could even make car bodies with this technology. For low-volume productions, that could be an interesting way to follow, it was cheaper: the product costed more, but the investment was cheaper. Masini: We managed to finish the first frame and some components made of composite materials based on carbon fiber: a technology used mostly in the aerospace environment at the time. Lamborghini made the composite parts with prepreg and then baked in the oven. The first carbon components that made it into production were the hood and the front trunk. That was a great period where we created new opportunities and tried to create new solutions that could get us closer and closer to the quality requirements aluminum already offered. Pagani: Back then the use of composites was mainly related to structural parts. Aerospace industries were using them, the F1 cars were being made with them... but as I said, the use was focused on structural parts. Dallara: First car built, we went to the track to test it, a lot of pressure on us... Something we didn't know at all was how to repair it... We knew how to fix an aluminum frame: we unnailed it, we straightened it up, we put it back on, glue, nails... we knew how it worked, we were used to that. How will this work? We had no clue. We went to the track and after a while, the driver crashed and the frame had a hole this big. I was terrified, we were ready to sell cars with carbon frame, we had to learn how to fix it. Luckily a problem like this is quite unusual, especially the first time you test a car... We were forced to understand and we ended up learning that a carbon chassis is way easier to repair than a metal one, because if a carbon frame breaks, you just have to fix where it broke, everything else is saved, while an aluminum frame tends to bend... Today it's no longer a problem, we fix it if we can. At the time it was a tragedy... luckily we managed to understand. Pagani: After making the Countach Evoluzione, we saw that the prepregs and other materials for molds were very difficult to process, so it was difficult to produce body parts at low costs, it seemed to work with cardboard. There was no experience on models, molds... so we focused on this. Masini: Horacio helped us thinking and producing new solutions. We made some optional composite components for the car, a pair of side skirts that resembled the F1 styling and the customers often asked to see these composite parts, they were attracted by them because at the time in the 80s F1 started introducing carbon fiber and developed the first carbon fiber monocoques. Dallara: At the time our knowledge was exceptionally mediocre: we had a rough idea, a supplier made some suggestions, but we didn't have the knowledge we have today. With a bit of recklessness, we believed in it and kept going: today I see that as the moment when we took a different road from the British who kept making "commercial" cars. England knew how to make F1 cars, but Ralt and March tried to keep using aluminum on frames. Luckily we were among the first to use it, it would have been more difficult if we had to chase them. In retrospect, I think we made an important choice at the time. Masini: I won't forget that Dallara at the time had probably the first wind tunnel in Europe and I remember a recent video of him where he remembered this and said: "You all have to know that there's nobody as good as Lamborghini at making composite materials". I saw all our past in that sentence, the technologies and the meetings with people. Pagani: When we needed an autoclave, there weren't many companies in Italy that made autoclaves for composites. I went to Magnabosco, a company that made autoclaves for laminated glass or tires and we studied the problem together. My idea was bringing one to Lamborghini but clearly you couldn't bring your own stuff to the factory, so I rented a little warehouse in Sant'Agata for composite research. At the time we created a little composite department in Lamborghini where we managed to process 2000 meters of prepreg per month in the mid-80s. It was not carbon fiber, it was a high-quality glass. What I noticed was the great interest from prestigious companies like Civa, EniChem, Basf for what we were doing. Masini: And these customers came to see how their cars were made and I still remember an interesting episode with a client who, once we showed him the composite technology used on the side skirts, leaned down to gather the metal chips on the floor (the car was in the bodywork department). I was amazed by this and I didn't understand he was actually gathering a little part of his own car's DNA. The passion the customers had towards a unique and artisanal product was extraordinary. Pagani: Lamborghini didn't believe in this technology because it was not finished as finely as an aluminum body and that was true. This led to preconceptions on this new technology. I personally didn't agree. Masini: Me and Horacio, the two of us were dreaming the impossible for Lamborghini. Horacio himself bought the first autoclave to help us carry on: we had to finish the car in a few months to launch it, it was part of a European project and the car had to drive on the road. Pagani: Today we have three of the latest autoclaves, the management and processing have also evolved a lot. Masini: Life inside the company is now different: it was 2:30/3:00 AM in the morning, me and Horacio were working to finish the car, while suddenly I felt a metal tube on my head, I was so scared I fell forward. And after yelling "Hands up, who's there?" I turned around and recognized the security guard who was patrolling the factory and caught us. We were obviously the only two working in Lamborghini at 3 in the morning. Dallara: We are very lucky: in the motorsport segment, many valid people replaced in the best way possible those who hammered metal sheet or made a car prototype by hand. Umberto Belotti: The company was established 40 years ago, in 1979 by my dad. After gaining some experience in Germany with machine tools, he started working with 3-axis CNC machines for milling plastic materials. I still remember when he came back home after work and told me about what he was doing at dinner. I was 5/6 and he told me he was making a robot... At the time the first Japanese cartoons were released, often starring robots, and I dreamt about this, telling my friends my dad was building a robot. One Saturday morning I was at home and he showed me the robot at the company. I idealized it in a different way: I thought about something that could shoot rockets and play with me. So the first time I saw the prototype I cannot hide I was a bit bummed because my expectations were miles away from what my dad was actually making: it was the first 5-axis machining center for finishing plastic materials. From that, which was the first 5-axis CNC machining center made in 1986, the first experiences with composite materials were made in 1990 in the military field. That 5-axis machine was used to mill fiberglass and Kevlar for Iveco armored vehicles: it was an important application because it brought us to a new market, the composites' one. Masini: I remember that it was not easy to make everything fit: some components from regular production did fit and we could assemble them, but the new ones didn't, like the front suspension for example... You must think that the Countach monocoque weighed 90 kilos, which was nothing compared to the weight of the whole car or the steel chassis. We had to find a way to make the suspensions fit and I told Horacio we probably had to revise them because the set-up would be compromised if we used the suspensions we already had. So Pagani called Marmiroli and asked: "The car weight is now different, Luigi. What should we do?" "Don't worry, put the regular suspensions on and we'll see". And so we did: it was the first time I saw a Lamborghini with a Space Shuttle suspension set-up, it looked like a missile because the front of the car was lifted. We called Marmiroli back to show him the problem and became convinced it would have been better to recalculate the front spring load to put it back on the ground. Andrea Pontremoli: Carbon fiber is used for performance application because it allows to lower the car's weight, but also improved safety on racecars and supercars too. It allows to reduce the forces the driver has to withstand, which is a key element. The decelerations to which the driver's body is subjected have to be tolerable: let's say we managed to make the most performant carbon fiber chassis ever that doesn't break, the deceleration will be transferred to the driver who would die anyway. The accidents with which we deal produce nearly 200 G, when at 22/23 G the bones break and at 36 G the internal organs collapse: if this force transferred directly to the driver, he would die. So we have to calculate with our programs how the deformation and breaking of carbon fibers allow to lower this deceleration. Masini: When the Countach Evoluzione was ready to hit the road, I remember the car performance was very high because the car weighed 1190 kg. The day we tested the Evoluzione, a customer who bought the Countach brought us the Porsche 959: a car full of composite materials all around, it even had carboceramic brakes, self-leveling suspensions... It was a technological laboratory. I remember that this customer saw the Countach Evoluzione and understood there was something extraordinary happening with that car and was something different from the 959, because the 959 represented the industry, the industrial application of composites; Lamborghini's use of composites on the other hand was still in its infancy, with the Countach that had just embraced composite materials and made a difference anyway because it was not slower than the 959. Masini: We were Martians inside a Leonardo's painting: we clashed with it. We represented the plastic world and it was nearly unacceptable by them. We called them "metalheads" and challenged each other to find the best solution. Working with aerospace realities was great too because when they told me: "Masini, we are going to try with this "A" material", so you went to the freezers because the materials were kept there. There were 3 freezers and they were called 747, 767 and 777 and I knew exactly where to find the material we needed. Me and Horacio tried to introduce the world to a facelift called "25th anniversary" where composite materials started to be used on body parts too to show our rivals (which was only one, Ferrari...) The F40 was the car to aim for, F1 at the time was the queen of carbon technology and we were able to convince Lamborghini to buy an autoclave and later made a new model, the Diablo. Belotti: From our first experience with composites in 1986, the company kept following this market because in the early 90s composite materials were used especially in the military, aeronautical and motorsport fields. In recent years, composite materials have started to be used not only in the traditional niche sectors: nowadays they have many applications, including the car industry. The demand for machines that could support the usage growth of composite materials brought our company to develop ad hoc products. Pagani: Today I'm very happy to see not only our cars, but also that the efforts made served a cause: if we think about Modena today, there are very interesting realities that work on composite materials, where technology abounds, like CPC. Franco Iorio: CPC was established in 1959 as an artisan company. It's a company that works mostly on mechanical models for foundries. In 1990 new associates joined the company with completely different ideas, so we started working with first 2D and 3D CAD models, soon joined by the first CNC machines. At this point we started working at the development of new racing and road engines, exploiting these new advanced technologies. This led CPC to reach some important goals and collaborate with important companies like Ferrari, for which we work both on the development of racing and touring engines. Same story for Lamborghini, Ducati, MV Agusta... This kind of business worked and helped the company to grow. The secret is to understand the customers' future needs. Belotti: Belotti technical office designs and develops 5-axis machining centers for the milling of composite materials. Over the years, our engineers and technicians gained experience in working with technical offices of car companies which can be transferred to future customers too: in 1990s the potential number of customers could be... let's say 20; today there are hundreds of European companies that produce carbon fiber parts for the automotive industry. Pagani: The business we started in Lamborghini and then carried on with Modena Design was to make these materials much easier to process and more affordable. Then we created the first prepregs to make molds, the first blocks for the models... What we ended up doing was industrialize this technology. Dallara: We try to have the right equipment to make the necessary parts, machine tools. You process a component to later mount the suspensions, engine, steering... so we learnt how to make it in the best way possible. The tools are expensive, but they are essential to make molds and models correctly. It seems a simple technology, but applying it is challenging. Belotti: Our 5-axis machining centers, designed and developed by our company, are used by our customers both to process and mill aluminum or epoxy resin molds and mill carbon fiber parts. During the technical talks between our technical center and the customer's one, it's very important to define the two families: is it a structural part (like the chassis) or an interior/body part? Because they need completely different technical proposals. When we work with frames, we need an extremely precise and powerful machine, while for body parts, the power and precision needed are lower. Pagani: In 1993 I came to the conclusion that there wasn't a textile easy to process for body parts and molds. So I started studying and designing a textile made specifically for that and in the meantime studying a resin: the first resin mixtures were homemade, then we asked specialized companies to make them. After some experiments on small parts I still have, I bought some carbon fibers from Toray in Japan. Getting these materials from Japan was a hard task, then they wove them in Como and since they never worked with carbon fiber before, they worked with industrial fabrics and the dust produced by the milling process jammed the machine they worked with. Belotti: When you process a composite material, it creates dust. Every car company values the working environment, so they ask for systems that prevent dust from coming out, so they are full-cabin, there are fans inside... This is essential to protect the work environment. Pagani: With the textile I made, I flew to Spain where they impregnated it: in this way, we separated the steps of the process and nobody knew how we did it. The first prepreg piece made is the Zonda hood on the wall there: it was 1994. Thanks to that component, its quality, dimensions and weight, Renault chose us to help them with the Next prototype, a hybrid car made of carbon fiber with a metallic chassis. It was an interesting experience and that hood after 25 years is still perfect and we reached A class surface finish, a big question mark on composite materials. Masini: I clearly remember the "metalheads" arguing about the composite material conditions over time: airplanes last 25 years, the 787 started being produced in 2005, we are in 2020 and we already have the answer. Pontremoli: From the motorsport world to supercars that are using more and more composite materials. But also in everyday life: composite materials for trains, airplanes of course. It's being used even in the industrial world, on bottling machine arms for instance, reducing weight, lowering inertia, therefore increasing the machine speed. So the use of composites is more and more important for the industrial evolution. Belotti: In the automotive world we often have to deal with custom projects, the customer asks for a true line of products inside the production line. Dallara: We try to use today's technology, like prepreg materials: used on our frames for instance, they are the most suitable for small production numbers like racecars or 20/30/40 cars per year Masini: For us there is no predominant technology for composite materials, but there is the right method to apply the technology and most importantly, where to apply it. Iorio: In the 2000s we found ourselves gathering the best of what is available on the Italian market. We thought exporting abroad was difficult because especially the German market tends to preserve some strategy conceptions in their own environment: they are not willing to send models/molds of engine parts to Italy, also because of secrecy reasons to preserve new projects. That's when we decided to walk a parallel path from an industrial point of view that could allow the company to grow anyway with a different product. Having already important customers, we noticed they started to use not only top-end engine and industrial technologies, but also innovative technologies on composite materials to make their vehicles. So we started making molds specifically made for composite materials and in 2007 we opened a new composite millwork department. Masini: Audi and VW saw this model and approved it: this allowed us to keep the evolution and development of this technology going and finally reach what I call "an epochal revolution". We had the chance to show the technical direction how we would have made the first Lamborghini composite chassis. The technical direction of the period, where Maurizio Reggiani worked, was one of a kind because we were the first to build a production carbon fiber monocoque on a super sports car. It was challenging to reach the technical/quality and performance goals on a reality that had to be competitive with aluminum and steel. Pagani: During the evening or the weekend I carried on the research activity and some people often came on Saturday morning with material samples to test: we built some equipment to test the materials. I worn my eyes out with that microscope to see how the material withstood an impact or temperature change... We gather some experience and got friendly with these materials. These people were very interested in our activity, so much so that they brought us the materials. I didn't understand at the time why those materials were very similar to each other. Then we started to build bigger parts, we often used Kevlar, with high thickness too... but as I said, I didn't understand: it was something useful to us because while doing those tests, I asked them if they could make a carbon fiber with a specific weave or a specific resin. I took advantage of this and asked them to make me these samples. Then I realized those materials had to be used on the Eurofighter, we worked on samples used on that plane and I later went to see how it was built. A truly interesting experience. Domenicali: In 2007 we introduced what will become Lamborghini's laboratory inside the Washington University where essential RTM out-of-the-clave technology concepts were taught: the basis for the Aventador's monocoque. In 2008 we signed a contract with Boeing to study the behavior of the monocoque during crashes. Lamborghini was the first to introduce technologies, processes and simulation methods from the aerospace industry. Iorio: We started working on composite products for Ferrari and Ducati, used in Formula 1 and MotoGP. Then we started making parts for street vehicles too, where we encountered another problem: a road use requires the making of spare parts and a large number of parts produced as well. So we bought other CNC machine tools to make identical products to each other: a serial product is a difficult one to manufacture under the economic point of view. It has different costs compared to a racing part. We are talking about industrial processes you have to follow: starting with designing the part, up to the final production, trying to minimize the scraps. All this is linked with investments you have to make, like CNC machine tools that speed up the refining process of composite parts: something that helped our company to be successful on the market. Masini: While the national tendency was to follow the autoclave process, Europe moved to mass-volume production, the US always played a big role on the aerospace world (Boeing, NASA etc..) and then Japan too: a fundamental source for us to find those carbon-fiber composite materials. It's not by chance that Japan is the main well for raw material. Iorio: As a core business we performed tasks related to the motoring world, where precision and building analysis and quality reign: if you apply the same concept to composite materials, you will end up with a very different quality compared to artisanal work. Many companies today are limited in manually refining the parts and don't know how composite components fit in a vehicle: our company can follow ALL the industrial processes required to assembly a car, from designing a model, developing a mold for it, making pre-pregs to processing, refining and painting the component. We can even put it on the vehicle: CPC is not only a simple supplier, but a system supplier. This makes the company unique. Pagani: One of the problems we had to deal was the costs because they were used on fields where costs were irrelevant. In the early days processing carbon fiber was a manual operation, today we have molding or RTM that increased the technical and refinement quality of components but also lowered the costs. Pagani: You always have to give credit to other people's work, that contributed to enhance the knowledge in that specific field: we Italians (Argentinians are worse...) are masters at forgetting history, but a company that gave a huge contribution to the history of composite materials was ATR. I think ATR was the company that made the most things with composites. Maybe today is not as powerful, but the most advanced things were made by them on many fields: we specialized on automobiles and our materials are used elsewhere too, but they did a lot of things in different areas. Iorio: During the 2000s we noticed the industrial world (especially the automotive branch) was considering a new innovative concept: the use of carbon fiber. Until then it was used mostly in the aerospace field. The British brought these new materials to their racecars, on F1s: we observed this tendency developing bit by bit on road cars too. Fast forward to nowadays, it was definitely rewarding: CPC today happened to have a good market in England. Iorio: Seeing the unveiling of the McLaren Senna at the Geneva Motor Show was a unique emotion. I must admit I dropped a little tear because in 1990 we made an F1 engine for the then Lamborghini-Chrysler, the last engine developed by a guy called Mauro Forghieri to make an alternative version of the Ferrari engine and later tested by another guy called Ayrton Senna on a McLaren: seeing McLaren itself honoring this driver with a car named after him and dressed with parts made entirely by CPC was something we felt proud of. It was like closing a 30-year-long circle: again, in 1990 we made this F1 engine tested by Ayrton Senna and after 30 years we made composite parts for a McLaren car named Senna. We are very very proud of this. Masini: Mauro Forghieri was another key figure because in the 90s he helped us develop an electric vehicle where composites were again protagonists. Those materials were based on fiberglass, but that vehicle represented another wonderful experience with the technical direction of Mauro Forghieri who came from F1 Lamborghini and came to help us with this project: it was just a demonstrative vehicle with a peculiar electric engine, but it was also another step forward in the composite development. Pagani: The advent of electric cars, where weight is something important (electric and hybrid cars are heavy), can find an interesting alternative in the use of composite materials. Pagani: I think there will be a development, we can already see it, on composites. It's very important also for this area, the Motor Valley where they once thought only about engines, later the culture of frames and dynamics came: now the composite part became strong too thanks to the many small and big companies that gave this world their contribution. Iorio: In some kind of way, we live on sensations and satisfaction, something far from the economic context and result. Our company lives on passion, it lives on the emotion we experience after working with spirit of cooperation and the result itself repays this spirit. Pagani: A supercar was once made entirely by men, not women, because bending metal or welding frames was a men's job. When composite materials arrived, women today can build an F1 Ferrari, a Pagani's frame... Women established themselves in this environment and can now make something with their hands, something truly positive. When I started the adventure with composite materials in Lamborghini, I needed people to work with me, so I chose women to carry on this job and I'm very glad to have done so because it was a very difficult period, there were a lot of clothing companies in the area and that environment wasn't going well, so we hired these women who previously made clothes and were now building the Diablo's front bumper or the hood. It was nice. Masini: Luigi Marmiroli and Gianfranco Venturelli represented two big sponsors for the evolution of Lamborghini's management after Alfieri: while Marmiroli was the most technical, Venturelli was the industrial man, the man who came from Ferrari and brought some rules to help us improving the craftsmanship by adding the industrial aspect. Venturelli was our industrial director, but he wasn't used to walk in from the main entrance where the other managers entered, he came in from the bodywork line every single morning. It was Christmas time and the company lived that time with its employees in a very different way from today and there was a special tradition, which was setting up every department for the Christmas event before the closure. The morning when everyone was preparing, Venturelli came in and while he used to walk fast through the line, that morning he stopped because the smell there usually was in the bodywork department was different. So much so that he came back to understand where that smell came from and found the lamps used to work on composites on top of each other, with two metal sheets borrowed from our colleagues and we were cooking the Cotechino. I remember that Venturelli was doing some road tests at the time, so when he stopped, he used to... test the Cotechino as well. Domenicali: One of the reasons why Lamborghini Automobili became successful after being purchased by Volkswagen in 1998 is our independence: on one hand, we had the chance to benefit from high quality standards and high economic force of the group, essential requirements in the automotive world; on the other, we are an all-around company and with 1800 employees in Sant'Agata Bolognese, we can do everything in-house: design, research, development, assembly and quality. This is the recipe to preserve our Italian identity. Masini: During these 35 years we were lucky enough to develop technologies that started with F1 (prepregs and autoclave process) the development of resin transfer molding that made a significant difference on mass-volume production: while Italy was showing off with prepreg technology in F1, we always tried to find what could make the difference and to do so, we managed to reach an evolutionary development with the Sesto Elemento: that car for us in 2010 was an important step in the area of discontinuous fibers (rather than settling for continuous fibers) because we reached unbelievable levels of performance that made us understand the motto "Right technology in the right place" in the correct way. Domenicali: The world of composite materials is constantly developing and their applications force new innovations to occur, unthinkable until today. Choosing the right technology is linked to the specific application and technical and economic needs. Pontremoli: When we started working on the Stradale, we wanted to bring the performance of a racecar on the road. That's why we had to use special equipment, like this milling machine that is now working on the monocoque, the heart of the Stradale, had to have some features: first, since we are working with carbon fiber it required suction systems; second, it requires precision and third, probably the reason why we chose this machine was its versatility: you can change tools in a simple way and allow the technicians to considerably reduce the machine cycle time. We often waste time to open, change the tool, turn the monocoque... in this case we reduced 40% of the machine cycle time. We take some weeks to make a racecar monocoque, so all the works made inside the milling machine have to synchronize with the next steps, like the gluing. Clearly if I have to glue something together, precision is crucial: we only use gluing on composites. Massimo Corticelli: Thanks to the new technologies we introduced in our factory, we are able to produce the Aventador monocoque with an industrial process. "Industrial" in Lamborghini means a mixture of craftsmanship and high technology, so in about 100 hours of work we can produce an entire monocoque, ready to be painted, assembled and then delivered to the customer: we are able to make 6 of them per day. Dallara: We are getting more and more used to all these technologies, especially on molding, and we try to use them even when they are not economically convenient, but only for knowledge purposes: for example, the front nose or the shock absorbing rear structure are made with molding technology because we understand more and maybe offer our customers new interesting solutions. We are also learning that there is not only one prepreg carbon fiber: there are dozens of carbon types, dozens of resins, dozens of other materials that are not carbon fiber, but other fibers that could be used. It's a world where you learn a lot, where a solution is the best one if you need to absorb the crash, another one is the best if you need to favor rigidity: it's a complex world, there are experts that are learning and we are lucky that there are companies in Italy working on this on a very very high level. Iorio: In 2008 we started producing parts for the Ducati 1098, a successful model, as well as the road-legal Desmosedici. We made several composite parts for motorbikes too. At the time we worked with Citroen too when they homologated the Citroen DS for the World Rally Championship and needed 7000 road vehicles for the homologation, so we are also talking about high numbers. We hired some employees and introduced new innovative machine tools, but especially with higher and higher performance and precision standards. We started working on structural materials: we are talking about composite frame parts for example. The frame of a vehicle is also made of the window surround, the roof... These kinds of requests caused CPC to start working on short-fiber composites, introducing the presses and following the "compression molding" concept. Here you need more powerful and extremely precise machine tools, so you ask your machine tool supplier to make more robust and precise machines, always aiming to the future: today we are working in this way, what about tomorrow? We'll have to deal with hybrid vehicles, powered by two engines, a vehicle that will need to carry some batteries. This means adding weight to the vehicle: our task will be lowering this weight by using composite materials. Pagani: I think technology has to keep growing, knowledge has increased considerably because investments are higher. For example, we made the interior for the Airbus A319neo: we own 40 materials and by using them, we saved 1 ton of weight which translates to a range increased by 1 hour, less weight when you take off... It means a lot. Iorio: In short, we can provide for a higher technology by lowering the vehicle's weight: this choice is the future and it's being applied more and more. We are working on some projects right now that are very futuristic: we are working on self-driving vehicles that have no steering column because there is no steering wheel, they are driven by a satellite system. This kind of product is part of a project where the vehicle is supposed to be made in composite materials. Domenicali: The partnership with Boeing brought us to the development of the "forged composite" technology for A-class applications, widely used on our cars and for the repairing, that allowed us to obtain the TUV certification, ensuring our high expertise towards the final customer. No car company had ever reached this goal before. Masini: What Lamborghini Automobili is going through is amazing: on the International Space Station, in orbit, there is our composite material and we are trying to test it in a different environment from the Earth and we are curious about this experience. Iorio: Without mentioning flying vehicles: if a car can fly, it obviously needs to be light, so we are working on a project where our goal is again lowering weight. Corticelli: The main phases of the monocoque production start with the raw material, which is pre-preg for the roof and dry material injected following the RTM (Resin Transfer Molding) process for the base. The first phase is the millwork of this material inside the molds (also made of carbon fiber by Lamborghini itself), then there is the baking which happens in the autoclave for the pre-preg, 3 hours at 140 °C, while for the RTM, the oven is set at 100 °C: the injection happens before the cooking. The material polymerizes and the composite gains its main characteristics: low weight and high strength. "Composite material" means a mix of carbon fiber and resin, that's why it's "composite". Once the materials are ready, the production phase starts where automation comes in: the raw artifacts go to the machine tools and the robots mill, trim, grind, pierce, tap them with a fundamental characteristic: maximum precision. This phase takes hours because the different components are worked individually: the roof, the base, other internal components that later go to the gluing phase where they are combined together. One important process is gluing the roof to the base, the two important components that combined make the monocoque. The last phase is the assembly of the bodywork, front and rear frames, all the body parts (doors, hood, trunk, fenders). Once approved, the body is ready to be painted and to receive the engine. Domenicali: The development of composite materials is the basis of the products that made Lamborghini's history and also WILL be the basis of Lamborghini's future: our expertise, our resources, our qualities in this area of excellence will keep distinguishing our company from other brands, an element that makes us proud of what we could achieve here in Sant'Agata Bolognese. Iorio: Over the years we also pursued our suppliers' loyalty: we chose them wisely, but now they are irreplaceable partners because they allowed the company to grow, be successful and they benefit from the success of CPC too. We considered them as part of the company itself. Belotti: I feel lucky to be the head of this company because it allows me to merge my lifetime passion, I remember the first F1 races I watched back at the time of Peterson and Villeneuve, with the business reality, the market of the our company, active in the field of motorsport. Many kids loved F1 at the time and I can cultivate my passion, because the customers are involved in the pursuit of speed and performance, and we have to make new machines with higher performance and reliability standards too to help our customers achieve their objectives. Pagani: If in our small way we contributed to this, I'm happy to see the development today that keeps going thanks to the talent of many other people. Iorio: During these years CPC followed... let's say, the "pleasure" of working especially with Italian companies as suppliers of technologies: this is something I really care about, because if we don't... work together, if we don't move in the right way, we lose even a national interest: we lose jobs, healthy employment... We Italians are not good, we are EXTREMELY good... maybe we are disconnected. We should connect more: if we can, let's try to make the Italians work on our side because there are no people like the Italians. Our secret weapon is flexibility, being able to dialogue, understand, evolve according to the needs: This is what sets us apart to win over foreign customers. We should exploit our internal system more, which today is a bit disconnected... Belotti: Our company is a local reality, rooted in the territory: many of our partners come here by bike or from nearby towns. Many foreign prestigious companies come to visit us, big US and Russian aeronautical companies, German car companies... It's a great satisfaction for everyone working in the company, not only for me. Iorio: I hope to see Italian companies working together more because, if so, we will become again (and I say "again" because unfortunately today we are not) a true big economic power. A documentary by Davide Cironi Translated by Elia Pozzani Filmed by Stefano Ianni Filmed by Francesco Colantoni Original music by Alessio Nanni Guys, you are truly a great story to tell because when you told me you are all three from L'Aquila, you are bonded thanks to the true human value that is friendship, there's passion behind, I can only wish you the best luck for your dreams. Keep up the good work. 