  Hello, and welcome to Composite Bodies an interdisciplinary and interinstitutional collaboration that addresses questions of surveillance, technology, embodiment, and power, from an intersectional feminist lens. I'm Caroline Light. I'm the Director of Undergraduate Studies in Harvard's program and Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality. And on behalf of my seminar co-convener, Patricia Williams of Northeastern University, I want to start by expressing our deepest gratitude for the generous support of our three co-sponsoring institutions, the Northeastern University Humanities Center, the Harvard Mahindra Humanities Center, and Harvard's program in Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality. We also want to extend a very special thanks to Mary MacKinnon and Daria Lugina for their indispensable administrative support for this event and also to Gabby Fiorenza and Steven Biel for their ongoing guidance and support throughout this yearlong series. Finally, I want to thank all of you for joining us here for this second Composite Bodies Seminar. At any time during the event, we welcome you to submit your questions using the Q&A function at the bottom of your screen. And in the interest of time, we ask that you please try to keep your questions brief and to the point, and we will do our very best to get to as many questions as we can in the course of this hour-long seminar. And now, it gives me tremendous pleasure to turn things over to Professor Patricia Williams. Thank you so much, Caroline, and thank you, Max, for being here. And thanks to all who have supported and made this presentation possible. It is my tremendous pleasure to introduce my friend, Max Houghton. She is course leader for the Photojournalism and Documentary Photography program at London College of Communication. Max is a writer, editor, and curator, working with the photographic image as it intersects with politics, law, and human rights. She is a prolific writer who has published with Photographers Gallery, Barbican, International Arts Press including Foam, One Thousand Words, Photoworks, and Granta. She's co-author with Fiona Rogers of Firecrackers, Female Photographers Now. Her latest monograph essay is on the American photojournalist Mary Ellen Mark. And that will be published by Steidl in 2021. And her interdisciplinary research at University College London focuses on law and the image, which course of inquiry is actually how I met her. I was teaching a class in Paris some years ago entitled Seeing and Surveillance, and Max was such an amazingly astute contributor, participant, and since then, friend. In collaboration with performance artist, David Birkin, Max is also co-founder of the just plain fabulous research hub Visible Justice. You can look that up at www.visiblejustice.org, and it's absolutely worth casting your eyes upon. Visible Justice is a transdisciplinary research platform for photographers, journalists, artists, activists, human rights lawyers working at the intersection of visual culture and social justice. Its concern is particularly with the victims of war and those living at society's margins. Her latest curatorial project will be a multidisciplinary exhibition organized variously in the UK, Ukraine, and Poland, entitled What's Next? It is inspired by the Polish science fiction author, Stanislaw Lem, and his notion of the futurological congress, which asks what is next for humanity? What can optical phenomena tell us about our place in the world or our very displacement? Can the representative regime of the image only reflect, or can we turn to nature for new forms of seeing through diffraction and limitlessness? This curatorial project follows many of Max's-- the themes with which she is ordinarily dedicated including the ethical, technological, pharmacological, and ecological lines of inquiry interrogating the inventions we have unleashed and which have changed us fundamentally. And the hope is to discover reparative modes of being and of seeing together. So this sort of inquiry is at the heart of all of Max's and in Max's work, and I'm delighted to point out that she and I are collaborating on a series of encounters between Northeastern's campus at University College London as well as here in Boston. We hope to engage students from both venues in exchanges about justice and the ethics of representation in both image and text. Again, thank you, Max, for coming, and take it away. Hello, good evening-- oh, good afternoon. Thank you so much, Pat, for such a generous introduction and to Pat and Caroline very much indeed, and the Mahindra Center for this invitation. It's an absolute honor to be here. I'm going to start sharing my screen. And I hope and trust that you can all see that. I think someone will tell me if you can't. So I hope I can talk to you for the next 25 minutes or so about some of my present and abiding concerns, many of which Pat mentioned in her intro. So, yeah, as a writer, and curator, and educator, within the broader expanded field of the documentary photographic image. I chose the title with the word Vigilare at the etymological heart of surveillance with that in mind. And drawing out this idea of keeping watch or of being vigilant-- of taking care-- which I hope that idea will remain implicated or folded into what follows. And Visible Justice-- as Pat also said-- is the name of the research I help co-run with David Birkin at University of the Arts London. And our focus on is an interdisciplinary practice and the efficacy of the image. And moving toward social change is something that I hope will arise in this talk today. And further, the idea of the active image is one which I hope might become manifest as the slideshow plays. And it's because of photography's own histories as a tool of classification and control that my work is, therefore, to make visible these sort of force fields-- these racist and colonial force fields-- that surrounded and gave birth to photography itself and to notice the ways in which they prevail, many of which have been bought into very sharp focus by the current pandemic. And as we know, the role of the image in determining our personhood has a long and violent history. And technologies of surveillance have shaped who is seen, and how, and by whom. And it's led to certain bodies being broken, and brutalized, and ignored, or rendered invisible. And these appearances and disappearances of female bodies, of Black and brown bodies, of queer bodies, of all bodies considered secondary, are the theme of this talk. In an essay on machine vision, and it was about the works of Trevor Paglen, actually, and Harun Farocki, and how the military or colonial gaze can be apprehended and confronted. The writer, Hal Foster, posed a thought that has struck me as a way to really structure this talk with you. And it's this, that this new robo eye of machine vision does not extend the human prosthetically so much as it replaces the human robotically. So we'll work with that through the talk. And this might offer a way, perhaps, to be especially vigilant around matters of surveillance, all the while, while tech firms are promising faithfully to do our seeing for us. It was a kind of unseeing or sleepwalking that led Europe down the road to genocidal slaughter in the 1930s onwards. And as Hannah Arendt described in her last work, Life Of The Mind, a life without thinking is quite possible. It then fails to develop its own essence. It's merely meaningless. It's not fully alive. Unthinking men are like sleepwalkers. Certainly, Yinka Shonibare, in taking on Goya's famous etching series, The Sleep Of Reason Produces Monsters, intends his audience to be as vigilant as the lynx that you can see in this image. It's one of a series of five images-- one for each continent and Africa is the one on your screen here. With his very careful staging and use of amazing taxidermy here, this British Nigerian artist intends to complicate questions of enlightenment thinking and what has gone on to justify in that very moment when the world emerged from darkness into light. And this particular kind of visibility has been used to justify many civilizing actions in places where the culture is neither understood nor considered in the first place. And it's the enlightenment's commitment to this kind of empiricist knowledge and this scientific method that's shaped our world. And I want to question that idea of visibility equaling, necessarily, good, and honest, and true, and right. We need to question even that and complicate that, as Shonibare does so very beautifully here. And it's because of photography specifically-- its relationships with these scientific methods of sorting and controlling-- that I've become interested in how these practices continue to be carried out by newer technologies. For example, the employment of photography in The People of India, which was a sort of photographic encyclopedia of characteristic specimens, which was commissioned by the British Raj government. It was actually a pet project of Lord Canning. He really wanted a kind of photo album to take home, apparently, but obviously, it also had another function in that it created a systemized approach to understanding this sort of supposed traits of castes with this scientific precision. It was published in 1868, in eight volumes. I actually saw an original copy at the Birmingham Library several years ago, which was an extraordinary thing to see. And that in 1868, was just doing the maths, four years before the first census in British Raj, India, in 1871. I've got a couple more slides from that publication. You can see that it says into the warlike frontier tribe, et cetera, low caste Hindu. These kind of judgments were made about particular types of people. Photography had a very significant role too in the case of the Communards in the same year, 1871 in France, when photography was used to both document revolution and it was also harnessed by the state for repressive purposes, that is for future judicial identification. And for the 72-day uprising, 40,000 names ended up in police files. 10,000 people were sentenced to death, or deportation, or prison, and as many as 10,000 people were killed. I feel like this very image with its statue of Napoleon fallen over, it takes us in a couple of directions to very present concerns of street protest, and to more statues that celebrate war and subjugation. And it also takes us to visual strategies that are being employed to safeguard people on the streets, in particular, in relation to the Black Lives Matter movement, obviously, protesting about the relentless racist killings by police. And, yeah, this strategy has been suggested, is being used, by media organizations-- this blurring technique. And it is provoking a lot of debate, specifically, within the field of photojournalism and documentary photography. And this is actually an image by an extremely experienced practitioner, documentary photographer, and I think also a professor in the States, Nina Berman. This is one of her images that's been blurred in this way. But she is not a fan-- sorry if that sounds simplistic but she doesn't advocate this use of technology to blur an image because it goes against all journalistic ethics of who, and when, and where, and why-- especially the who, obviously. And also I read a report by a Times-- as in New York Times-- picture editor, Brent Lewis, who, from a different perspective, says it's wrong not to show the black struggle. It is wrong to make people faceless. It was interesting how quickly technology stepped up to this idea. Just, there's a whole raft of apps now that can do this work for the photographers or the editors should you so wish. So, yeah, just a thought about that. So obviously, the desire to potentially stop people being subjected to any further violence is extremely powerful, extremely important. But on the flip side, what does it mean if specifically, Black faces and Black names are erased or made strange. Removing faces removes the possibility of an ethical encounter with a human face that's sometimes thought of is the very foundation of ethics, certainly, in the conceptualization offered by Emmanuel Levinas. But on the flip side, hypervisibility, which can be what a camera brings, shining a really bright light onto people who are in the streets in the first place because they're mourning because they've been subjected to extreme and horribly violent practices for centuries, but that that light might frame these same people as criminals within the kind of prototypical whiteness to which Simone Browne, in her amazing book, Dark Matters, refers. And the way in which she-- Simone Browne-- threads back this genealogy of racist lighting practices, "when blackness enters the frame," quoting her, to 18th-century lantern laws. That I thought might offer a methodology through which we can think through the most effective, and safest, and yet still active ways to use the image. Violence can be enacted in other ways by the image too in the form of racist slogans and flags during protest. This is a project by the artist [INAUDIBLE] MacDonald Strand-- that's Clare Strand and Gordon MacDonald-- who are making an intervention into this violent spectacle in their collaborative project, which is called No More Flags, to which anyone can participate if they have images in which they'd like to have the flags whited out, then you can send them to Nomoreflags.org. And so when you see the resulting images, what's left is some angry white people, but, crucially, their presence in the street is it still there, but it's no longer visibly connected with some idea of nationhood, or citizenship, or a politics of exclusion. The image I'm going to show you next came up during some research for this talk, and, apparently, has been credited as Picture of the Century. And it's gone viral in different decades, but it's completely eluded my eye. So in the picture, a woman strikes a neo-Nazi marching in support of the Nordic realm or reich in 1985. It's one of those genius decisive-moment images. But as you will have noticed, this isn't a mistake. It doesn't, in fact, appear here. As I said, I happened upon it by complete chance, but I returned to it to see what I could find out about it. And now I haven't been able to completely triangulate what I've read. I think that this is verifiable that the woman who is striking-- this small, middle-aged, she's called old, but she's actually apparently 35 I think-- but she's striking this very tall skinhead with a handbag. And, yes, it's an extraordinary image. But it turns out that she was the Polish Jewish daughter of Holocaust survivors, and that, actually, she was horrified by her public persona depicted in the photograph. And she was someone who already suffered from acute anxiety and mental health issues. And it's thought that the mass distribution of this picture presenting her in a particular way was-- and this is horrible-- a contributory factor to her suicide two years after the image was taken. And that's why I haven't chosen to show it to you here. And the other horrific detail from the images that this skinhead in the image marching for the Nordic Reich was later convicted for the torture and murder of a gay Jewish person. Such is the extraordinary and unexpected potency of an image to travel so far and to touch so many lives. And interestingly, a sculptor made a statue of this woman who I am also choosing not to name, although, obviously, you can find out. But the Swedish town where the incident happened rejected the statue for its violence. When people put their heads up above the proverbial parapet, it can be mortal danger that's at stake, with the degree of danger, obviously, having a precise correlation to the person's allocated position in racist and unequal societies. In China's Xinjiang province-- to make a geographical but not contextual leap-- we know from testimony that Uighur women are being sterilized during operations for abortion or miscarriage. So how is it that Uighur women are being identified in the first place? It's not by a protest in China, although as this image shows-- sorry about the Reuters, I couldn't find another image and, obviously, it was taken by a Reuters photographer-- but, they are protesting in Turkey outside the Chinese consulate but not in China. That would be way too dangerous. But just as IBM leased its Hollerith punch card and sorting system, the precursor to the computer, to the Third Reich-- and Edwin Black's investigation proved precise quantity of data collection operations were established in the concentration camps. IBM also organized the first census-- that word again-- for the Third Reich. So I've been wondering which companies are the IBM of today. I haven't sort of put that into my research here. I'm not really the person to be researching tech companies in any particularly authoritative way, but it's certainly very interesting to notice what companies are doing in one place and then what they're doing somewhere else. But obviously, there are companies facilitating this counting and classifying of Uighur Muslims. IBM, I'm saying I'm not aware of IBM working in this specific area with China. I think certainly, some Chinese companies are. But IBM certainly does offer such a tool. It's called IBM Intelligent Video Analytics. And it's a software that's specifically designed to sort people into groups based on their facial and bodily attributes. And the language they use on their very helpful web page describes the use of the technology on the captured person-- which was, obviously, quite telling. As we know from-- I think a lot of the audience will know this fascinating work done by Joy Buolamwini at MIT-- such technologies can conversely have trouble detecting Blackness when it enters the frame. In fact, one of my students had asked why a Black person would want to be recognized by AI, which is actually a much more complicated person than it might first appear. But this idea of needing to be seen and heard has its own politics, as women in a direct lineage from Buolamwini through Nona Faustine's amazing series outside Sojourner Truth's home there, Ar'n't I A Woman. Joy Buolamwini asked AI, Ain't I a Woman? And there is Sojourner Truth asking the same question. Considering the Chinese government's use of advanced facial recognition technologies for specifically racial profiling, it's no wonder that the young woman in the image in Turkey is masked, yet Buolamwini had to wear a white mask in order to be seen. In regions of China, facial recognition technologies are-- they're actually integrated into surveillance cameras. And there was a specific requirement from law enforcement officials for software that can characterize and search whether someone is a Uighur or what not. So one of the tags for the code was you can have kind of Wreck glasses-- Wreck sunglasses-- was Wreck Uighur because it's part of the population that has different facial characteristics from the majority Han Chinese population. And as we know the reeducation camps in Xijiang. They're well-documented. And the genocidal violence against women is proven as their bodies are systematically taken to pieces. Given the use of human technologies-- I'm sorry, given the human use of technologies for ill, it's not a surprise that when the UK announced that the tech company that it chose for its partner for the NHS in relation to pandemic data-tracing apps with Palantir, alarm bells rang. And just these two facts put together-- so Palantir's FALCON software was used in the immigration customs enforcement raids in Mississippi along with many other such raids-- that fact, plus we know that people of color are more likely to succumb to COVID-19 due to intersectional issues such as poverty and existing health, so that fit doesn't sound good. While piecing together these ideas around surveillance invisibility over the last few months, there was one image that occurred on more than one site that I visited and it seemed to be almost ubiquitous in how its futuristic aesthetic could be appropriated in any which way. But more than that-- and to take us back before the second part of my presentation-- to take us back to Hal Foster's phrase, this looks like a robotic replacement of the human. Yeah, I couldn't even find its origins. It's possibly from the 2016 film, Cyborg. Yeah, I'm not sure, but it just appears if you just put that into reverse Google image search. It's almost like our world is populated by this shattered androgynous creature. It's not an especially human image, but it seems to imagine a future which has already arrived, and its robotic eye is keeping watch. For the second half of this presentation, I want to look at the ways in which the human gaze is extended perhaps into its optical unconscious and to use that evocative phrase coined by Walter Benjamin by a variety of what I might call reversals or challenges to motive surveillance. And there is not necessary different kinds of surveillance, whether they're military, or colonial, or political, or social. And so I want today to look at a few aesthetic strategies that are at work, for example, when some female artists focus their acidious attention on the placement of their own bodies within these complexes of visuality. And I'll also focus on an instance in which the creation of a language for a disappearance itself is explored creating an actual language for this disappearance. If the drone stands as one of the ultimate forms of contemporary terrorizing surveillance technology, that's where I want to bring in the work of Lisa Barnard with The Non-Logistical Mother-- what an amazing title that is. And the drone technology has been the subject of much critique including within documentary photography. Lisa Barnard is an artist whose research integrity leads to vast explorations of seemingly impenetrable subjects and the drone program itself, also how gold-- actual gold-- functions in the world. She worked with the human rights NGO, Reprieve, who we, Visible Justice, also work with, with Maya Foa as its director and their creative campaigns. But Lisa accompanied Reprieve on a campaigning trip to Waziristan and protested the CIA secret drone program. Barnard's photographic and flimic responses were multifaceted. But actually, later work, she sort of revisited her own work and made them this video essay-- a much longer video essay than the one-minute clip that I'm going to show you now. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC PLAYING - TRISTAN AND  ISOLDE] [NON-ENGLISH SINGING] [END PLAYBACK] The thought of Elaine Scarry has been productive for me to apprehend the ways in which acts of violence can be inscribed into bodies-- and I'm speaking of women's bodies in particular here. While Scarry is theorizing torture and war with a capital W-- which is what we're looking at here-- the pain of which she speaks is being inflicted too from the plantation all the way through to the home and the domestic violence that's being perpetuated during the pandemic. And she describes it-- Scarry describes it-- as the intense pain that destroys a person's self and world, a destruction experienced spatially as either the contraction of the universe down to the immediate vicinity of the body or as the body swelling to fill the entire universe. And I see those experiences at the level of form in this film. Lisa was meticulous in telling me the precise details, not only about the music from Tristan and Isolde but of this precise drone strike. She's not just appropriating footage that she doesn't know anything about. She knows all about it. And like I say, this is at least a 25-minute video essay. But, yeah, the sound of the hovering drone, the expected death of your [INAUDIBLE] which was the daily experience for Waziri mothers. As well as Lisa's own right, I think, to intervene as a woman into this masculine-- I see it as a masculine playground of the arms fair that she was at. I think she's following a tradition-- which she actually acknowledges at the beginning of this video essay-- but a tradition perhaps begun by Virginia Woolf with her amazingly provocative essay, Three Guineas. And I think by now it is at once ridiculing this industry whose trade is death, and at the same time offering this new audience-- us-- her own body captured itself by a surveillance camera as she creates this subversive performance and running through this arms fair and this non-logistical mother who might be Bernard herself. She, basically, photobombs this machinic gaze with this very human movement cutting through this domain of militarism and capitalism. I feel like her performance opens up the field of representation that's rendered women and women suffering invisible by a focus on the lethal machines. One of the videos we've worked with in-- sorry-- one of the artists we have worked with in our Visible Justice program is Poulomi Basu. She lives in the UK now, but she's from Calcutta and has been an outspoken critic, actually, of domestic violence within the family home there. And so it makes sense that when she learnt about exclusionary menstruation practices in neighboring Nepal, that she wanted to find ways to work with young women and girls whose lives were endangered because of-- its called chhaupadi-- monthly banishment when they're menstruating into remote fields to sheds on stilts in remote fields. This very brutal form of bodily surveillance was an embedded cultural practice in the region. And over a several-year period, Basu met with the young women on multiple occasions. And she devised a strategy using virtual reality technology to bring this vivid sense of banishment, and estrangement, and isolation, to an audience who could, perhaps, otherwise ignore this strange and foreign practice. I'm going to again, show you a clip-- I mean, this is a nearly 3-minute clip of the film The work is a VR work. So in no sense do you actually get a sense of it, but I wanted to bring it to your attention best we can. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [MUSIC PLAYING] [END PLAYBACK] Sorry, just trying to make sure that it doesn't play again. Yeah, with the idea of the Western audience was actually in some ways an afterthought because this, along with journalists and activists, this work was aimed very much at Nepalese lawmakers and it was this combined work. Basu describes herself as an activist but did actually change the law. The practice of chhaupadi is now outlawed in that region of Nepal. And girls who were banished and frightened who Poulomi's worked with for five years, they were banished, frightened, and, perhaps, most of all, ashamed, when they were 16. They're now activists themselves on a public stage talking about the issue through this work and watching themselves with the VR headsets on. And that's on this website as well. I'm going to turn now to the layered work of photographic artist Sim Chi Yin. Her research practices have opened up the personal story of her leftist grandfather who was an opposer of the colonial regime. He was deported to China during the so-called Malayan Emergency-- this was British colonial rule-- and the Malayan Emergency in 1948 to 1960. He was killed in 1949, and his death was never discussed within the family. It was also not very much discussed in history-- this particular colonial history. And it was full of summary execution, forced mass resettlements, and detentions, as well as the imposing of them as some emergency regulations, which apparently some of which are still in place in the region. So Sim went on this extraordinary journey through Asia meeting friends and relatives of her grandfather-- political activists of that era who did survive-- photographing them and also objects that connected them to their pasts and landscapes that have witnessed more than any survivors. That was her take on it-- these very atmospheric landscape images that she created. But perhaps even more than the sum of these works-- these are just a couple of the archival images. That's the last image known of her grandfather there-- but was actually the way in which she has chosen to present it. So this chosen form of the performative lecture which has just been so affecting. And there she is. I don't think she made this performance at a Visible Justice event. I don't think this is a still from there. But, yeah, it's really extraordinary the way she builds this very complex narrative partly about whether or not communists-- because that is what we're talking about-- were considered freedom fighters or guerrillas. It was not discussed within the family, within the culture, even after the brutal murder of one of them. And in this way, this performative way, the body of the artist becomes like a palimpsest whose layers are perhaps revealed by the combination of her voice and this almost spectral imagery overhead that flickers and changes. It's almost like she's channeling the spirit of her grandfather in this very rare kind of public performance. It's palpable that she's putting her own body forward-- that she's honoring this man whose own resistance to colonial subjugation had become invisible and had been forgotten. The final body of work I want to talk about is the extraordinarily subtler work of Sofia Karim. And although what I'm going to show you here is image-based, Karim is an architect by discipline. I encountered her when her uncle-- the very highly-respected Bangladeshi photojournalist, Shahidul Alam-- was imprisoned for making false and provocative statements on Al Jazeera TV in the midst of anti-government student protests. We were able to exhibit his work in a popup visible justice exhibition as part of a global justice campaign, and Karim, his niece, came to speak. But there was something about her. She was speaking on behalf of her grandfather. I just knew she had a practice. And I don't know anything about architecture. But she has a practice, and it's very, very complex and very, very layered. But to try to convey it, she's been pushing her architectural practice to try to find a language for disappearance and indeed for freedom. And these images that I'm going to show you are from an ongoing series called Lita's House. And this one is Lita's House, The Great Bear. And this is based on a constellation that Shahidul Alam used to watch from his cell. And the dimensions that you can see in the drawing is also a reference to the space each prisoner gets in the holding cell at the jail where they have to lie spine to spine. And if they can't afford to pay a fee, it's worse. And they have to lie-- to quote Karim-- groin to groin in scissor formation. And this is one of the architectural models she made to kind of help her think through this idea. These are tiny little bodies lying groin to groin in scissor formation. This image, Lita's House, When Is The New Year-- sorry, When Is New Year, is based on the poems of another incarcerated intellectual professor, Saibaba. This gentleman is 90% disabled. He's on a life sentence in India. He's been on hunger strike. And Karim regularly posts on social media about his incarceration. She's the most extraordinary activist. And she organized a huge Turbine Bagh at Tate Modern earlier this year, which was an anti-facsist protest led mostly by Muslim women. And then this is actually what-- I'll just show you a couple more images from Lita's House-- but I find it almost inexplicably moving. It was actually this image that prompted me to contact Sofia, fit for this presentation. It's just on her Instagram. It's called Ping 2020. And I just felt very moved by its sensibility, and I didn't know its context at first, so I asked her. And she says that in trying to form this language, she's trying to get to the essence of architecture and that the closest she got was when Shahidul was in jail in terms of the spaces that she was seeing and feeling in her mind. And even though those very strong visions and sensations have receded-- sorry, did I say he was in prison for 107 days and he's now released very, very gladly? But she's trying to connect back. Her whole work now is a striving to reach that place again-- those spaces that she was seeing. And she's made this illusion with Beckett-- Ping is a short story by Samuel Beckett-- and the way in which he breaks and reshapes language in order to give clues to this way in which she was envisioning the spaces that she saw or tried to see when Shahidul was absent-- that incommensurable kind of absence or void. And it goes through like that at present. So to conclude, I'm offering these works that I see as being as resisting acts of extreme violence. I think they resist the various complexes of surveillance under which we live. To paraphrase Ariella Azoulay, perhaps a refuge can be found within the register of the image. I think these works, in the spirit of a civil contracted photography, generate a sense of an active image. And wounded broken and fragmented bodies are on it, but further violence perhaps is not enacted. I see an ethics of gentleness in these works. And in the case of Barnard's work, perhaps a ludic quality. In such terms, gentleness and playfulness are rarely associated with technology, or surveillance, or even with documentary photography. So I want to suggest that when genres encounter their limits, that that's maybe where we find the active image kind of squeezing out of its frame offering, perhaps, the kind of extension to human vision that we do surely need. That's the end of this presentation. I wanted to finish with this image from my favorite ever photo book and the idea of keeping watch. So I think I'm going to be joined now by Pat and Caroline. Thanks so much for listening. I'm going to open the chat, which I have previously kept closed. Max, that's so beautiful. Thank you so much. I want to give you the applause that you so richly deserve in the absence of an actual audience because I'm sure I'm not alone in just feeling so much gratitude for this beautifully wide-ranging, and powerful, and resonant presentation. I want to defer to Pat, if you have a question first. I have so many. I don't even know which one to choose yet. No, I have no questions. I have this observation about the strange beauty that, perhaps, relates to your notion of the gentleness that comes forward. And just a few days ago, I was looking at an image, and I'm not sure whether it's Trevor Paglen's image or not. But it's an image from space of walls. It was a discussion of the wall being built on the southern border here. But it was an image from space of there are many walls being built all around the United States. And I think it was the very snake-like wall between India and Pakistan. And it's lit, apparently, all night long. It's lit constantly, but at night it looks like the most beautiful river of fire. And it demarcates the sense of exile that that image you had of the almost circular fire around the women who were in exile in Nepal for menstruating, and the peculiar way in which the awful demarcation of exile from a distance is so beautiful, and entrancing, and engaging, in this paradoxical aesthetic. Yes, yes, paradoxical is right. Yes, it was one of the-- a place to begin this conversation was with Trevor Paglen. But his work is extraordinary, and his engagement with these issues is profound. Yeah, I just determined to speak with women. But, yeah, I don't know that image to which you refer, but I shall be looking it up. And I think it was-- let me put it this way-- I think it's Trevor Paglen. But it was some of his space-looking-down-on-Earth work. I'm furiously googling and I'm not able to find it at this moment. But the point that you make, Pat, about the simultaneous and paradoxical beauty of these images that, nevertheless, signify extreme violence, colonialism, and surveillance ultimately, makes me think about-- so I do have this question about because you've given us such a rich archive of art to interrogate. And my question is really about the politics of audience and the artist's intent when they have a political kind of a goal. And this would speak specifically to Basu's imagery of women who are criminalized for menstruating and exiled menstruating. So I guess my question-- because you've given us this range-- some of the images contain the actual female bodies who are under scrutiny or who are at the center of this effort for justice, and then others provide abstractions or provide surrogate bodies. And I wonder if you can just talk to us a little bit about how you decode these kinds of political valences from the perspective of the artist's intent in terms of what kind of transformative justice they are trying to bring to their work? Yeah, thank you. It's actually the precise question that came up. With Visible Justice, we curated-- well, we didn't start with the curation. We started with some relationships. And so we paired a body of media school LCC post-grad students with a variety of organizations and artists. So Reprieve was one of them. There was an environmental NGO involved, a human rights NGO, and Plan B was the environmental NGO. And then with some specific artists, for example, Poulomi Basu was one, and Larry Achiampong and David Blandy was another. We also worked with Refugee Journalism, which is an LCC organization. And they worked together for a term and produced, I could say artworks, but I'd like to say artifacts, which I then curated into an exhibition throughout LCC. And also, yeah, my good friend, Doumany's work. He is in exile from Syria, and he has experienced the huge amounts of and unending amounts of broken bodies. And his entire concern about exhibiting his own imagery from the war was not to further enact violence upon them. And so there was this moment when I realized that the whole-- and this is going to sound shocking and horrible, but this was sort of what hit me-- that the whole show was littered with dead bodies. But there were, thankfully, very few bodies on show. And it was this precise dichotomy, this line, or this balance between when showing a body will enact further violence. And that's the way in which I have wanted to think about it ever since. Just precisely that desire, I do not want to enact any more violence. So with Poulomi's imagery, even though-- I mean, it is not representative. That's a promo video for it. But the way in which she uses VR, and I have to-- I'm just going to say I'm not actually a VR fan. The only time that I've felt anything bodily from it was actually with Poulomi's work. It normally just makes me feel a bit dizzy and a bit annoyed. But she did bring this sense of isolation that can sometimes feel like this distant strangeness that I alluded to. And just thinking through, and what we did with Doumany's work-- the Syrian artist-- was we put some silk coverings over the most brutal images with this idea that-- and it was the same, it was actually satin fabric that was used to shroud the dead bodies in Duma-- his hometown-- when the city had run out of the fabric that was normally used to shroud the bodies. So they had this very strange experience where the citizens were shrouding their dead in these brightly colored satins. And so we used these similar satins-- they're actually from a London market-- but to cover over Doumany's photojournalistic images-- that's what they were. They were evidence. Doumany's images are evidence of atrocities in Syria. And, yeah, and this became the question. And so images on their own, even with good wall text, say for me that, with every respect to artists intended, but the way we work in Visible Justice, we would always have a symposium. We would always bring in a variety of practitioners-- not only the artists-- to talk about the work. And for me, that's the way in which art becomes active. Otherwise, only people who like art, see art. And so with the variety of practitioners and not just the people who had made the work. But Khalid Abdalla, who is a filmmaker from Egypt, came and talked about he'd made a very bodily kind of contribution to two proceedings. But I think if that answers your question just with an ethical intention to do no more violence. I mean, it does get to the heart of the question that you posed with around Joy Buolamwini's question of what to show-- what do you really want? Joy Buolamwini's work taking issue with the degree to which AI misidentifies dark skin. And do we really want to be seen? Is the heart of this shrouding, but also you chose images with so much shadow in them or the uses of shadow and were intriguing to me. And it reminded me a little bit of Alfredo Jaar's work when he was a photojournalist in Rwanda, and he took pictures of the shadows rather than the images of bodies, or he took pictures of the sky above and the light that was cast. And it remind-- I've been reading Isabel Wilkerson's book on caste, which focuses on the United States' racial system as a caste system. And one of the things she observes is that in Indian caste, the lowest caste sometimes had to drag a branch behind them to literally erase their shadows-- their shadows of being. And the question of shadowing and shrouding is not just a form of mourning, but of erasure is one thing. But the way in which you erased or AI sometimes erases and creates shadows of who we are, really vexes the question with which you began, about whether or not this technology is a prosthetic or whether or not what we're looking at are-- we are replaced by human-robotic performances of ourselves. And but I wonder-- the layered symbolism of the literal veils that you're talking about, but the kind of algorithmic bodies through which we are now seeing that displace our very being is quite an interesting question in all of your photos-- like the erasure of the flags, for example, the blank spaces. Yeah, in terms of kind of almost like the politics of the shadow, even though I didn't include it in my spoken presentation-- I always just want to include it in every presentation-- but one of the reasons that I fell in love with the image text that is The Sweet Flypaper of Life by Roy DeCarava and Langston Hughes is because DeCarava shoots in the shadows because that's the life that the people in Harlem had. They lived in the shadows. They lived in the shadows because the buildings were tall because the sun didn't get there. And if you shoot dark, dark skin with the photographic film that was available, then people look very dark because film is racist you know? Hence the Shirley cards, et cetera. And it was extraordinary to me to see this book where a photographer might pick up and say, you know, well, this needs to be made lighter or something like that. And kind of the politics of DeCarava's Keeping the Shadow In has-- that's one of the earliest works I was asked at the real very beginning of my relationship with photography. I'd only just started teaching at Westminster. And I was asked for some reason to share a panel at LSE on sort of photography and poverty. And I couldn't quite bear the idea of sort of looking at sad images of people which I felt like was what I was expected to do of the, you know, starving people. And I actually ended up talking about that book because with the way in which it shoots in the shadows because that's what life was like, and the privations that are touched upon, like the woman who's the main protagonist in the story getting changed into her best clothes before she goes home after work because her work has been, like, a cleaning job of some kind. And so she doesn't want to enter her home looking grubby. She wants to enter her home looking beautiful and proud. And I'm not quoting. That's not quote. But that's the sensation I got from it. But, yes, so I think I think about shadows in a different way. And perhaps this is a good thing from photographers. I think of it only in a kind of conceptual way. And it has an extremely interesting link and kind of, yeah, metaphorical play with the idea of the shroud that you raise. And, yeah, I'd actually love to sort of do some work just only on that. So we're running out of time, but we do have this one question that I want to share with you and see if we have time to get at it. It is from someone who studies English and computer science. And one of the things that has been most disturbing to me about modern surveillance is the way in which innocuous images, such as photos that a parent might post of their child on Facebook, become contributions to surveillance as data made up of faces, and people, and how it's sold and repurposed. I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on both this decidedly modern phenomenon and the way intentionality or unintentionality is important to our conceptions of visual justice. That's from Cindy Zang. Thank you so much, Cindy. That's a great question. Is it in the chatbox? I feel like I'd like to read it. It is. It's in the Q&A. Hang on, thank you so much for that, Cindy. So sorry-- loses glasses. I'll just sit back a bit. Yeah, I wonder-- visual justice is one thing, but visible justice, and I think that this intention of what we are sharing and what it might be used for. I mean, yeah, half the people I know don't post pictures of their young children's faces. But then there's a whole generation that's just gone where every single moment was posted. I feel like there's a change in sort of teenagers and what they share now, but not-- I mean, that's just much too general to say anything useful about it. I think I supposed what I wanted to get back to is really what is visible justice? Is it always about making visible? And I think that perhaps the holding back and the keeping in can sometimes be a better route to a kind of justice and one that we could share. I don't know if that quite answers the question, but thank you for it. That's wonderful. Thank you so much, Max. I so much appreciate your time and this incredibly powerful intervention. You've given us so much to consider in terms of visible and visual justice and that tension that you just very eloquently highlighted in response to Cindy's question. And so in addition to thanking Max Houghton for spending this time with us today, I want to thank all of you who have accompanied us in this vital and fascinating conversation. And I want to invite everyone to keep an eye out on the Composite Bodies website for updates on our spring events, which we will post there shortly. And until then, thank you, again, to Max Houghton for this amazing presentation, and good afternoon to everyone. 