 Each painting work has its own artist's style. It contains its own rhythms and melodies, but when combined, they are a great harmony It contains its own rhythms and melodies, but when combined, they are a great harmony and a unified whole.  Each remix has different stages and rhythms. However, when they match, they can greatly increase their artistic value. Each collection of works bears the breath of contemporary. Today we will talk to artists about contemporary art in Vietnam through the perspective of the lacquer painting exhibition: "Expressionism and Abstractionism" – the event is taking place at the Lunet Art Galerie. I would like to say hello to the two painters! Hello, Mr. Nguyen Van Chyen. Hello, painter Tran Ngoc Hung. Today I'm very glad to talk to you guys at the Galerie. As you all know at Galerie there was a very interesting exhibition. It is the exhibition "Vietnamese Lacquer on Vietnamese Materials" that left very much impression on the art community on lacquer painting with a message that: on lacquer material, we deserve the stature of Vietnamese painters to reaching out to the international level. And to confirm it once again, Lunet art hosted a second lacquer painting exhibition with the theme: "Expressionism and Abstractionism" Lunet art would like to introduce to the art community that our lacquer material has many aspects to express, it has many aspects to become a comprehensive material associated with contemporary. And today an open talk, we will talk about lacquer material in this contemporary painting period. Could you please introduce two yourself and your views on contemporary art, I would like to invite painter Nguyen Van Chuyen. I am painter Nguyen Van Chuyen, a lecturer at the University of Theater and Cinema, Faculty of Fine Arts. The perspective of my writing is also simple. Like the breathing air in a person, it often smolders. Depending on each individual of the artist, it will show different angles, different qualities, different materials. But to me, a lot of material, the focus is still lacquer. This is what I like and pursue. Thank you, Painter Tran Ngoc Hung, please! I'm painter Tran Ngoc Hung who is working at Vietnam Fine Arts Museum. I loved lacquer from the very first sight when I entered the School of Industrial Fine Arts, Since then lacquer has almost touched me. The concept of composition is: I seek the ego of myself. The discovery of materials gives a modern direction. It is the combination of many materials in an artwork. So what is the concept of Mr. Chuyen in the way that you handle your traditional lacquer material to follow modern thinking of a very modern artist. Because the composition has a personal impression of it so sometimes to deal with the material it is specific. I always find new perspectives on a topic that I want to draw, that's what is important. Then the material let me combine with it to make the work better. That is the purpose. The perspective we must seek to, because the materials, the methods we've already have, what is needed here is the thinking of the artist, the artist's search to express in a completely new perspective as in "Tunnel of belt 3" painting. Absolutely it is an industrial topic. Just by hearing the name of the painting, people know how to paint the industry with the construction of Hanoi. At Belt 3 it is very specific but when looking in the picture, we do not see it is a bustling construction site. People often feel that the work at Belt 3 is very busy or messy. It’s not! In painter Nguyen Van Chuyen's painting, it was quiet, it was like in the dark, and everyone who was watching that picture was in the tunnel. The picture is dark, it's sinking, yellow and bright at the back. And often in my work it often has a light hidden behind it It opens up a way of thinking, a way of looking at it, a way of perceiving abstract paintings in another aspect. As for abstract paintings, it is not too specific and does not require it to be too specific. If so, it is no longer abstract. Actually, I also found that somewhere in Mr. Chuyen's work shows very warm lights.  It is very difficult to show the bright patches, but for you, on the lacquer material, you perform very well. The expressive and abstract thinking, in my opinion, is to draw things that have no shape such as the wind, such as dreams or hunches, so it does not have pictures. It has to be with your emotions, with your true abstract thinking to solve the problem in the work for viewers, That is a difficult thing. Otherwise, it cannot be appealing to viewers. Then I want to ask a question for Mr. Tran Ngoc Hung. Your works have curves, their colors are very strong. So on the way to find the color palette of lacquer, has that thing appealed to you? as in the stories where you look for curves, your ideas for you to show such patches. Each artist has only one way that is to find his own path. Knowing that the road is very far but must go. I like extremism, which means I seek my own path. It is within people when we work that it gives off this energy a new one. This new thing is created by people, not the young artist who is looking for the contemporary, looking for other painters in the world to draw with. That is not contemporary. Picasso painted a pair of shoes but it is still contemporary. In the end, to me, art is beauty, it is contemporary. So, does the road to finding your dream of lacquer have something that appeals to you when you discover lacquer material to bring lacquer it in your artworks? Can you share with us? I was touched when I encountered lacquer. Meaning I was touched at first sight. Recently I want to find a lacquer threshold again. I think traditional lacquer is confined to the expression or very abusive of silver and gold, then I want to use only aluminum dots and tubes to create lacquer works. There are people who also have found it, not only me. Material is not unique to anyone. The durability of it is also a very complex matter, I want the work to reach quality and then it is durable. Well, that's what I want to personalize about the work. When you come to lacquer material, I also feel touched by those works. Meaning that from a lacquer material it has a very vibrating depth. For example, if we stand in front of a glossy black body and stand in front of a canvas, we still clearly see the shiny black body because it attracts us. Then there is also the view that lacquer material is itself a composite material. Do you think it is a composite material, painting material that we will prove to the world that it is a composite material That is the correct criterion. The first lacquer material is a wooden board and canvas is the complete opposite, just like the East and the West. Why do we like it? Because we are Asian. It is made up of wood from East Asia's lacquer to make a piece, not an acacia tree. The second color is black in contrast to the normal white of the canvas The colors are natural. Paint from the Rhus tree is also completely natural, it's like the Eastern people have the five elements: metal, wood, water, fire, earth in the material, of course, it is full, then it is certainly a composite material. When we look at the material as a whole it becomes attractive. Why is it attractive? Very few people can explain it. It is intriguing because its process is completely Western. When painting oil paintings, the more you paint, the thicker the painting surface. When painting lacquer paintings, the more you paint, the thinner the painting surface. Because we grind it. In contrast to the West, they use a pen to paint and we use sandpaper to sharpen it, and we have to use it by hand, not with a machine. A grinding machine is just for a rough grinding step, when we grind the rough surface to rebuild it must be done by hand. Then it is the opposite of the pen, bypassing the pen stage, drawing directly into the work by the hand, it is always softer and more emotional, it is more attractive And it has many elements of random knitting in the color paint layer. The third is that drawing the figure on the body is black and white, different from completely black strokes on canvas background, the whole review process is completely opposite. Then why it has to be East and West, so are our minds, that makes us like it. That is full of elements that we could feel it. While working at the Vietnam Fine Arts Museum, I also saw Mr. Hung working in the restoration of lacquer paintings. Can you share a little about the lacquer technique of previous works and works of this period? About the compositênss of lacquer from the conception that I just made and Mr. Chuyen have affirmed, Do you have any supportive or critical ideas? I think it is in stages, the Indochina period - the period when the masters made very perfect lacquer paintings. Every artwork is a huge asset to Vietnam. In the Indochina period, the people were very proficient in lacquer, the people who were skilled in the craft They also created beautifully. I must say that they are aesthetically beautiful paintings. So my point is that those masters were set in a corner to solve their own story, and now we are dealing to make a richer color palette so it's our responsibility that each of us will have that responsibility. The old masters painted with a soft heart, gentle style, we are different now. My opinion is that each person will solve it personally, and if we want lacquer to develop, we have to push the personality factor to develop the lacquer palette. The discovery in material brought today's exhibition. Lunet art really wants to share with the community a view of our lacquer material, which can be used in many styles ranging from abstractionism, expressionism, to academic expression. And today the world is also searching for many exhibits about composite materials. It is also our wish that later, we - Lunet art, or any art organization - will bring lacquer material as well as your works to the international playground. That helps us assert that on the lacquer material - the composite material that it is inherent that we do not need to go far away to look for, we are discovering academic things, and that it has elements of painting from a lot of different schools. That is also what Lunet art is looking forward to your support and sharing. Continue to watch Art Talk No.1 - Part 4 on Channel Youtube "Lunet Art" and Facebook fan page "Lunet Art Galerie"! 