 What's going on my fellow rock n' rollers.  Don't forget to hit the bell notification   icon to be notified every time i put out  a new video on my channel. In 2006 the   Red Hot Chili Peppers released their  ninth studio album Stadium Arcadium.   One of the biggest singles off the  album and the Chili Peppers career   was song dani california, but the band soon found  themselves being compared to musician Tom Petty   and it wasn’t in a way they had hoped.  What happened? Stay tuned to find out!  Dani California would become the Red Hot Chili  Peppers’s 3rd single of their career after Scar   Tissue and Under The Bridge to be a top ten hit on  the billboard hot 100 charts. In addition to that,   Dani California became the second song with the  first being REM’s what’s the frequency kenneth,   which I’ve also already done a video on to  debut at number one on the billboard modern   rock charts where it stayed their for 3.5  consecutive months. The song would also go   on to win two grammy awards for best rock song and  best performance by a duo or group with a vocal.  The song tells a story of Dani who would be a  poor girl from the south who lived in California,   had a child, while also lived a fast and dangerous  life and eventually dying. Dani would represent a   composite of all of the women frontman Anthony  Keidis had had relationships with in his life.   Dani first appeared in the 1999 song  "Californication" even though her name   isn’t explicitly stated which includes the lyrics  "Teenage bride with a baby inside/Gettin' high on   information.” A reference is also made to  her in the band’s 2002 single "By the Way"   as "Dani the girl". Ad Kiedis would reveal in  an interview : "When this funky groove came up   it struck me as a perfect place to actually  tell a story. It sort of revealed itself to   me that it's been the same character, just kind  of developing. At first I didn't realize that   I was writing about the same girl" he'd say. While the song received much critical praise,   a morning radio DJ in Deleware named Dan  Gaffney who worked for radio station WGMD 92.7   claiming the band plagiarized the Tom Petty and  Heartbreakers 1993 hit Mary Jane’s last dance.   They would play the songs side by side and state  the chord progression, the key and even lyrical   themes were very similar and they would ask  their audience to decide for themselves.   And soon enough, other news outlets picked  up on this and it became widely reported.    Even though the chord progressions do  sound similar they are in fact different.   University of Chicago Musicologist Travis  Jackson would tell Rolling Stone magazine   that while the chord progressions were very  similar they were pretty standard groove in music   and it didn’t necessarily mean it was evidence  of plagiarism. Other people would also point to   the fact that tom Petty’s song mary jane’s last  dance sounds eerily similar to the Jayhawks 1992   song Waiting for the Sun. The Jayhawks ironically  enough were an opening act for Tom Petty in 1992   and the band’s keyboardist also  played on both Waiting for the Sun   and Mary Jane’s Last Dance. Also interesting was  the fact that Rick Rubin produced Dani California   and Mary jane’s last dance. When the story picked  up steam and started being nationally syndicated  news stories at the time reported that the The  Chili Peppers could be facing a huge plagiarism   lawsuit as Tom Petty was made aware of the  similarities and was apparently looking into   legal ramifications. It was also interesting to  mention that both bands were on the same label   Warner Records and for the record label Stadium  Arcadium was their biggest album of the year   and if Petty were to file legal action  it was reported that the album could’ve   been pulled from shelves pending litigation. At the time Tom Petty's rep, Heidi Robinson,   said in a statement : "I am well aware of  this situation. The two songscertainly do   sound similar, don't they? I guess imitation  is the sincerest form of flattery. Tom doesn't   have a comment on this at all. I have no idea if  he is going to sue the Chili Peppers, and am not   prepared to make a comment on that" she'd say. Eventually Petty would comment on the matter   when he was interviewed by Rolling Stone  magazine where he would say the following  The truth is, I seriously doubt that there is  any negative intent there,” “a lot of rock & roll   songs sound alike.” When he was asked if he  considered a lawsuit, Petty said nah. “I don’t   believe in lawsuits much. I think there are enough  frivolous lawsuits in this country without people   fighting over pop songs" he'd say. So let me know  your thoughts in the comments section below. Do   you see a lot of similarities between the songs  and what do you think tom petty should have done   at the end of the day. Thanks for watching.  Be sure to hit the like button and subscribe.   If you have suggestions for future topics, let  me know in the comments section below. Take care. 