 [MUSIC].  Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, wherever you are on the globe and welcome to our 2020 Wave 2 launch event. Super excited to be here with you today. We've been doing this year after year, the semiannual launch events, and it's really one of the - I think the best parts of my job. I'm fortunate to have the opportunity to represent the work of literally tens of thousands of product developers who are building technology that surfaces through Dynamics 365, the Power Platform and the broader Microsoft Cloud. In fact, before I came out here, I was looking up some numbers and we are by far, Microsoft, now the world's largest business applications SaaS provider by measure of engineers or product developers. In fact, we have more developers building the technologies that surface through these products than our second largest competitor has total employees. It's a staggering number and that's what has allowed us to continuously release the innovation, some of which we're going to show you today. Today we're going to focus on the wave 2 of 2020, both Power Platform and Dynamics 365. But we're sort of at a discontinuity. Before we get into the details of this launch and see the demos with many of our great customers, I want to talk a little bit about that inflection point and why we're seeing the success that we're seeing today. Over the last several years, Dynamics 365 has been adopted by - thousands and thousands of organizations across the globe are now selecting Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform and of course, the broader Microsoft Cloud to power their digital transformation initiatives. Some of the world's largest organizations, most iconic brands. In fact, over 0.5 million companies, including 97 percent of the Fortune 500, are now betting their business, their future, their business process evolution, on Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform. That's staggering. It's a staggering transition over just a few short years from last generation SaaS providers to Microsoft's Business Applications. You have to ask yourself why? What the heck is going on that's allowing this transition to occur? Why are these customers selecting Dynamics 365 to power their digital transformation initiatives? Well, if you think about business applications and you go back over the years, they really haven't changed at all. Business applications historically have been nothing more than effectively glorified record keeping systems. Someone sits down at a keyboard, they type stuff into a form, it gets stored off in a relational database typically, then you run some reports, maybe execute some business processes, forms over data, that application first model has prevailed literally for decades. But there's something that's fundamentally changing now and really for the first time in the history of business applications, there's a fundamental shift occurring, a tectonic change. At the base of that change, what's driving it all, is the fact that data's starting to come out of everything, and it's coming first. Every time I walk out of my bedroom, my thermostat senses that I'm at home, knows what my temperature preferences are. Every time I drive my car to the office, my car manufacturer knows the route I took, the songs I listen to, how fast I drove, how hard I brake. Everything is increasingly producing data. Not because someone sat at a keyboard and typed it in; because everything is increasingly observable. Whether it's the products and services I just mentioned or it's the fact that I visited a website, used a mobile application, everything is increasingly observable. That permits a complete and total transformation of what business applications are and ultimately what business processes are. That is at the core. You think about what's possible now. Think about this situation where you've got a front-line worker. I was talking to an aerospace company actually not too long ago where they have workers that lay out wings. You're sitting in front of an aircraft wing, you're putting carbon fiber sheets down trying to get this wing laid out using epoxy in order to lay these sheets. Imagine that worker wearing something like a HoloLens device, which is not just an output device, it doesn't just put holograms on the world but it's also laden with sensors, cameras, depth cameras. That worker now can have an application, a business application that watches, effectively, as that worker is doing its work. Goes to pick up a can of epoxy. It can sense a QR code there. It brings all that knowledge up to the Cloud, joins it with information that already exists like your inventory information, knows that that epoxy is expired because it was pulled out of inventory, comes back down in that application now - right in the real world - a big red X shows up in front of that epoxy telling the worker 'don't use that, it's expired'. This ability to sense the world, to take data from everything, to join it with the mountains of data that already exists in organizations or that are coming from everything, and then to come back down and to add value to those who are doing work, is an unprecedented opportunity. I had a customer not too long ago say to me, "Historically all I get out of by business applications is what I put into it, what I type into them and it doesn't add a whole lot of value". Again, glorified record keeping systems. Now business applications are value-adding, they're adding value, not simply spitting back what you put in. What's required to do that? What does one need to do in order to lay the foundation to provide that class of business application. Now we've been on a 10-year journey at Microsoft to build from the base up towards this vision of what transformed business applications look like. It started with Microsoft Azure 10 years ago, 10 plus years ago. We began to lay down what is today the world's largest footprint of data-center capacity on the planet. In fact, we have more Azure regions now then both AWS and Google combined. That's critically important because every byte that comes out of a car thermostat interacts, that all needs a place to go. This ability to have this bottomless collection of data, that ultimately is the fuel that transforms business, is made possible because of the space. But then you need to turn that into value. If you look at the investments across our AI portfolio, Microsoft is leading on just about every single leader-board, from computer vision to natural language understanding. We've taken this ability to create value from the data and bottle it up in our cognitive services and our AI capabilities on Azure. On top of that, we have the Azure Application Platform, which provides the ability to take those insights and to turn that into action. On top of that, we built the Microsoft Power Platform, which allows anyone, not just professional developers or data scientists but in fact those closest to the business, that understand the business opportunity, to connect with data, create applications, create business processes. Then on top of that, we built Office 365 package via Microsoft 365 and Dynamics 365, and then wrapped all of that with a common consistent security backplane, one compliance boundary, one management interface creating this - I would argue that the industry's only comprehensive Cloud for digital transformation. That's what it takes to build modern business applications. Now, there's an old saying that, first they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you. It's been interesting to watch our competition tried to react to this. If you think about a last generation CRM provider where what they had to start with was this subscale application first model going off to try to fill the gaps whereby another company happens to be built on another Cloud Platform, we need data now, we need a BI provider, yet another public Cloud interface. We don't actually have collaboration tools, but we have a partnership, they're now competing with me on the application side and then jumping the shark in some ways, needing to buy a connectivity solution and application integration company in order to make your own stuff work together. This position that we've worked very hard, a decade's worth of investment, hundreds of billions of dollars, has put us in a position where we've got something fundamentally unique. That's what we're going to talk about today as we look through how our customers are leveraging Dynamics 365, the Power Platform, we'll always do it in the context of this broader Microsoft Cloud. We have one Cloud, the Microsoft Cloud that is holistic from SaaS to PaaS to IaaS and we believe that makes us incredibly unique. Now, you don't have to adopt everything. You don't have to take it all at once and in fact, if you walk into a typical enterprise environment, what you'll find is they have won everything; SAP, Salesforce, Workday service-now, some stuff from Microsoft and in fact, the next acquisition that you do, you bought yourself some more fragmentation. We recognize that there's a lot of heterogeneity in these environments and so we give you many pathways to adopt into this vision. The first of which is leveraging the power platform. In fact, I would argue that the more applications you have, the more fragmentation heterogeneity, the more valuable the power platform becomes the Power Platform, Power BI, Power Apps, Automate and Virtual Agents has hundreds and hundreds of connectors that allow you to connect to what you have and to create composite applications and workflows to stitch it all together. This ability to get more out of what you've already invested in, is enabled through the Power platform. Coming in on top, we have our family of Insights applications, Customer Insights being an example where again, you can take the data coming from everything, whether it's existing applications, whether it is a web or product data, you bring all of that together, harmonize it, learn from it, and get a single view of your customer, for example, where you deeply understand each individual that you're trying to serve. You can take that understanding and drive that back into the applications you already have coordinating across applications. So whether below or above or in the middle, we've got the opportunity for you to adopt Dynamics 365 on the application side and the center. The ability to just adopt parts of the product line. If you want to change your field service processes or your commerce processes or the way you think about your supply chain. You can adopt those parts of Dynamics 365 that will work with what you have. Then of course we have the industries only, I would argue left or right, comprehensive family of applications that span from operations all the way through customer engagement, are all integrated and built on this back plane. That's a very quick, I know high-speed fly through of what we've built, but I do think it's super important that we recognize that what we're talking about today, and we're going to talk about over 500 new capabilities, new products and services that we've delivered just in this release wave. That it's not just about this release of Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform. In fact, it's not just about Dynamics 365 and the Power platform at all. It's about the broader Microsoft Cloud and the decade of investment that we've put into this that has allowed us to build a platform that I think is unique in the market and serving our customers as they seek to take advantage of this tectonic shift in the marketplace. Now let's take a look at five customers who've adopted Dynamics 365 and the Power platform in the broader Microsoft Cloud of course, and look at how they're leveraging these technologies to transform their business processes, to move into a more proactive, data-driven posture with their customers, with their operations and we're going to start with Campari. Sangya Singh is going to show us how they engage their customers, leveraging Dynamics 365 Customer Insights and marketing. Take it away, Sangya.  Thank you, James. We're super excited to share the customer stories. This first customer story is around Campari. Campari is a global leading brand in beverage and spirit industry. They have a portfolio of over 50 iconic brands. They pride themselves with a culture, time to value with all in the service of the customers. One of the big investments that Campari make is to have that personal touch for the genuine relationship with their customers is around investing in live and virtual experiences for these customers and those experiences are very local and regional in nature. Over the years, like many of our large Dynamics customers, 20 acquisitions over 20 years, where Campari found themselves was with a very fragmented IT infrastructure. Because of the regional nature of these events that they run for the iconic brands multiple times a year, they find the customer data scattered across different data sources because of the regional decisions being made on what softwares to buy to manage these events and manage these marketing automation. You can see examples of various data sources that stores that customer information. Data source that stores information about this customer around when they did the bookings for which event. Another data source that keeps track of all the social interaction that these consumers are making during the event and after the event, and wide variety of these sources. Let's see how Campari leverages the Dynamics portfolio of Dynamics customer inside product and Dynamics marketing product that really needed them to get to the economies of scale that's needed to run the business at the same time meeting the compliance requirement of managing this customer data within the region. In this demo through a series of four part vignettes, we're going to see how Campari leverages Dynamics customer Insights and Dynamics marketing products to actually unify all the customer information from all of these data sources that we just talked about into one unified profile that gets powered by AI, that more insight and that becomes the foundation of all the business decisions that you're going to see they make in the three parts that follow that first part demo. With that, let's get going to the demo. This first demo is around the product called Dynamics Customer Insights that Campari uses. Dynamics Customer Insights has two capabilities. Audience insights and engagement insights. Audience Insights are all the capabilities that are today available in Dynamics Customer Insights as GA. But the October launch, we are renaming this capability called audience insights. An engagement insights as a new capability we introducing and public preview in October at that I'm going to talk about it in a little bit. Let's go through Audience Insights capabilities and see how Campari's team uses that to actually pull the data from these different data sources and get to that unified profile that is needed. Let's go to the data sources. Here is the experience where all the data sources that we just talked about that has the customer data scattered around can be easily connected so live feed start to come. Transactional feeds around customer activities, start to pull into Customer Insights. Now, when Campari actually ingested data from all of these data sources, they realize that there are actually three different profiles for each customer, so they went through our unified process, where they go through mapping, marching, and merging of those three separate profiles from these data sources and come to that one unified profile. Here you can see we have about 500,000 unique unified profiles created. Now let's take a look at one of these profiles. All the 500,000 customer profiles, let's pick one of them. Here you can see that unified profile that becomes the foundation for various teams within Campari to take action, pulls all the data from different sources into one view. Not only does it have data from all the transactional information, it has deep timeline from it. But they also applied our AI out of the box model to get more demographic information, to get more brand affinity and interest affinity for this customer. This truly truly becomes a unified profile with transactional, demographic and AI insights that becomes that foundation. That concludes the first part of the demo. Now let's start the second part of the demo. The second part of the demo starts with now the Campari marketing and digital analyst team, they wanted to actually run a campaign for approvals, upcoming promotion. But before we do that, we need to first identify which customers should we target for that. One of the first thing that can party starts with is a segment that already created for the previous SIR attendees, so we start with the 2019 attendees. There are about 6,000 of them. But instead of just targeting them, they use out of the box AI capabilities to find similar customers in the Campari unified profile. Here you can see based on the attributes of the customers that attended last year, they found about 100,000 of these customers that they're potentially would be interested in this event, we can go ahead and adjust this amount if you want it based on a marketing spent, but let's just keep it to 100,000 and let's give the segment a new name and let's go ahead and run the segment. So now the segment is created, that concludes the second part of the demo where we actually selected the customers, 100,000 customers that we're going to target for this upcoming campaign. The third part of the demo is around the campaign page actually going live. So let's imagine at the Aperol website, this promotional page about the upcoming event has gone live, and the campaign has been launched to these 100,000 customers through e-mail and through ads. Now, what Campari really really wants is, the marketing and the digital teams, they really want to track real-time interactions on their websites. I'm pleased to announce in October, Customer Insights is going to add another capability called Engagement Insights that allows you to track these interactions on the websites in real-time. It can quickly get started, an instrument to your website to gain real-time interactions. So here, the Aperol website has been connected using Engagement Insights. Campari leverages that to actually add the promotional page on the website and real-time data starts to come in. You can get a lot of rich information about these million users that are right now on Campari Aperol website. Now, let's take a look at out of the box reports around how all the e-mail campaigns are going based on the tracking code. So based on whether the campaign was through e-mail or through ads, you can see real time which campaign is driving what users to the page. Because it's live, it's very interactive, too. I want to actually narrow down to the Campari landing page and actually try to see which campaigns are working there, so real-time data that the digital team and the marketing team is getting. Now, the digital team wants to know a little bit more around the Funnel. When people do land on that promotional page, are they signing up for the promotion? What are they doing? What are the behaviors? Engagement Insights allows you to give that behavioral dimension to that customer. Here you can see that about 4,000 users landed on the campaign page and 40 percent are actually signing up for the promotion and getting the loyalty scores up, but there are about 60 percent of these users that are landing in the promotional page but have not signed up. So let's get to the next part of the demo where we're actually going to create a segment based on these real-time insights that we're getting from Engagement Insights and target those 60 percent of the customers. With that deep integration with audience insights, Campari is able to create a new segment for the 60 percent of the people that landed on the page but have not signed up. So those are about 1,600 of them. They're able to do that and with that, they want to now send a personalized sign-up marketing campaign. Let's just take that segment and export it to Dynamics 365 Marketing. Now, we've switched to Dynamics 365 Marketing. As you can see in the segments, the deep integration with Customer Insights, that segment just shows up with the same 1,600 users, and this segment is dynamic. There's deep integration between the two, so as new members get added in Customer Insights, Dynamics Marketing gets updated. So we've got the segments super easily identified. Now, what I want to do as a marketing professional, I want to create a very personalized e-mail to those 60 percent, and so I use my drag-and-drop editor in my e-mail creation experience. With October, we have added incredible capabilities around out of the box templates to personalize these e-mails further. We have Spam Checkers that's already built in to make sure that the right person gets the e-mail, and we also have made lots of optimization in the rendering and handling of this HTML. So in marketing we've got the segment, we've got the e-mail content ready to go. Now, we have to pull this together to actually launch it. We do that using Customer Journeys. In Customer Journeys, I'm able to pull the segment together with the e-mail content and actually send the e-mails out to those 60 percent for the final chance to sign up. Customer Journeys has been re-imagined with the October release. It's fast and fluid interactions. You actually get real-time metrics in place, metrics for every tile. In this case, what you're seeing is, on the action of "Send e-mail", you have real-time metrics and you can actually see how your communication is actually doing, and you can find opportunities and gaps and make the right decisions moving forward. So that wraps up the demo that shows how Campari leverages dynamics; Customer Insights and Dynamics Marketing to really reach out in a personalized way with their customers. What you saw was how using Customer Insights, they were able to build a unified profile that's truly three-dimensional. It has transitional, it has demographic and behavioral aspects to it. It's not only just transactional coming and pulling from those data sources, but we also apply AI capabilities to pull in demographic. Then you saw the newly introduced Engagement Insights that provides this rich interactive real time analytics. That's where we get the actual behavior, the intent of the users from connected devices like their websites, and added to their unified profile. Seamless integration between the two allowed Campari's team to gain deep understanding about real-time behavior and drive very personalized engagement using Dynamics Marketing. All this comes together with the main business outcome that Campari has of driving highly engaged customers by increasing their brand loyalty. With that, I will hand it over to Oren that's going to talk about our next customer story, Cleveland Clinic. Thank you.  Thank you, Sangya, and good morning everyone. The impact of health care systems is one of the most significant one on our lives and our well-being. This has never been more in the forefront than in the last few months. We have seen the impact healthcare workers have had on communities all over the world, and our health care organizations have had to respond to a worldwide health crisis. This has also led healthcare organizations to think about how they can re-imagine, what it can do for their patients, how they can provide proactive health care, being much more data-driven and have the flexibility and agility to adapt to any crisis. Cleveland Clinic is one of such living healthcare providers that recognize the power of technology to help them completely re-imagine their patient experience end-to-end. They want to have an ongoing relationship with their patients, they want to deeply understand them so they are able to provide proactive and preventive care. To deliver these type of care, we are announcing today the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare. This is a combination of seamlessly integrated applications and services across Dynamics 365, the Power Platform, Azure, Teams, and Office 365 all designed together for the healthcare organizations. There is no other vendor in the world that can put so much innovation together to really transform industry. The solution brings together the best of Microsoft for the health of your customers. Everything from a complete set of communication tools for patients outreach, enabling a state of the art patient service center and giving patients the ability to self-serve with smart AI based Virtual Agents or health bots. All of these enables healthcare providers to move from the old way of providing health supported by forms of the data applications to the new data first approach that drives a much better patient outcome in an unmatched patient experience. Now, let's go and take a demonstration that is centered around how deep understanding of the patient can bring personalized experiences for the lens of our customer, Cleveland Clinic. Cleveland Clinic utilize Dynamics 365 to support reactivating their hospitals once patients could start returning for nonessential procedures that had been paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic. There were a number of pressures that patients were facing. First, COVID-19 made some patients have prehensive to return to hospitals. Second, people had changes in their insurance coverage due to lay offs that had occurred across our nations. The question was, how can Cleveland Clinic effectively and efficiently resume services in a safe environment? The Dynamics 365 project really focused on two main areas. First, they wanted to locate things that have been previously ordered or scheduled, but were canceled due to the interactions for nonessential procedures. Second was, how can they provide a way-find experience into a new financial normal to get them ready for their visit and making sure their financial needs were met prior for arriving. This was all really about streamlining and improving access. Dynamics 365 platform, not only is allowing Cleveland Clinic to completely reactivate their hospital in a much more efficient way, it is also making sure they are able to help the most in need patients find the right way for their financial treatments. Let's take a look at how they are doing this. Over to you, Ryan and Lydia.  Thank you-all. I'm excited to show the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare. Today we're going to look at an end-to-end patient experience. It's going to start with patient research and go all the way through to follow up care. I'm going to be joined by Lydia, who's going to be representing the healthcare provider and how our solution is actually supporting the individuals to make great patient experiences. Let's jump in and take a look. I'm a patient who has a knee issue at this moment, and I'm browsing to the healthcare providers website and I start to interact with a health bot. Now in this case, I describe my knee hurts and it knows who I am. It starts to use technology from the electronical medical records to see past conditions I've had, as well as allergies that I have. Now, using an out-of-the-box AI model, this health bot is able to diagnose my symptoms and will reach a point of which it will suggest a next best step for me based on the information that I provided. As we walk through a series of these questions, we see that a virtual visit is the best next action that we're looking for, and because my knee hurts, I'm very much willing to set up that virtual visit. Together with this bot, we're able to schedule that virtual visit happening and we pick the first available date that we see here. Now for me, I've got exactly the answers I needed, so the bot ends the conversation asking if it can help me with anything else, and then I rate my service. Moving forward in our journey, we're building up to the patient virtual visit. Now this experience is going to be optimized by the fact that we're going to have a pre-visit survey that I received via SMS based on my contact preferences. As I go into this pre-visit survey, we will see that I'm asked a series of detailed questions about my conditions. Now first of all, it's going to track my pain levels, and dependent on the answer, it can follow up sub journeys. A sub journey of phoning me if I provide a very high pain level of eight, for example. But it's also going to ask questions along the lines of, have I had any extra visits to hospitals or ERs that they don't know about or am I taking any new medication that we see? Now from here, based on the answers that I have supplied, we're actually going to jump into the phone call that I receive because of the high pain levels. New, in the October release, I'm proud to announce that we're talking about voice as a channel within our customer service application, and this is powered by Azure Communication Services. Let's jump in and hear how that works.  Hi Ryan. I am reaching out about the answers you provided us in the recent pre-appointment checklist. Based upon the responses of your pain level, I wanted to inquire if we can assist to set up an emergency appointment for you or transfer you to an available agent.  Thanks for reaching out. It is hurting, but I have an appointment tomorrow and I'm okay to wait.  We are here for you. If you feel any change that requires assistance earlier, you can contact us to set up an emergency appointment at anytime via the patient portal or MyCare app. Thanks for your time.  Now we're going to transition to the day of the virtual visit. I'd like to bring in Lydia, who's going to play several roles of the healthcare provider. Lydia.  Thanks Ryan. As Ryan's nurse, I'm now going to share with him the details to join our virtual visit. Using new capability from the October release of Remote Assist, I can share with Ryan a onetime link so he can join me on the virtual call even if he doesn't have his own Remote Assist license. I simply share the details with Ryan and he can join me on our virtual call. We jump onto the call with Ryan and what I'm now going to do is capture a series of mixed reality images which are automatically going to be stored in CDS to be shared with the doctor for their appointment in a few minutes. Now Ryan can join the call even if his mobile device doesn't support augmented reality. It gives us much more flexibility for completing these virtual visits. Let's talk to Ryan. Hi Ryan. What I'm going to do now Ryan, is I'm going to ask you to flip your camera to show me your knee, and I'm going to draw a series of arrows onto the screen to ask you to share your pain levels with me. If you can flip it to show your knee, great. Now I'm going to draw the first arrow, Ryan, and I'm going to ask you to let me know how the pain feels in that area. How does that one feel?  About a nine.  Ouch, that sounds painful, Ryan. Let me capture that note on the image and I'm now going to draw the second arrow. How does the pain feel on that side, Ryan?  That's about a seven.  Great. I'm going to record that on the image, so we can share it with the doctor so that they have all the information they need about your pain levels before the appointment. Ryan, I'm going to share it with the doctor and I'll join you on the call in a few minutes. Now, we're going to see the experience of the doctor. As Ryan's doctor, I'm joining him on the Teams call. On the left-hand side of the screen, I can see and communicate with Ryan and on the right-hand side, I can see his Patient 360 record. Patient 360 uses the Azure FHIR Connector to connect to a multitude of different sources, including his electronic medical record, and then consume that information into one clean Patient 360 records screen. On screen, I can see lots of information about Ryan. I can see his conditions, I can understand his allergies, and importantly, the image that was just captured by the nurse in the virtual visit is available to me within his Patient 360 record. I'm going to go ahead and open the image to understand the pain Ryan is experiencing. Now that I understand a bit about Ryan's experience, I'm going to talk to him and suggest the best next steps for his care. Let's talk to Ryan. Hi Ryan.  Hi Doctor.  Having looked at your Patient 360 record, I'm going to suggest that we bring you in for an MRI. How does that sound, Ryan?  Yeah, that sounds like a good plan.  Great. I'm going to get that scheduled for you in the next few days. Now, what we can also do as a doctor, is I can track his vitals from his smart device. Now Ryan has an Apple Watch. We're going to be able to set the Apple Watch up to track those vitals and record them in his Patient 360 record. Now, Ryan, like lots of other patients, often struggles to connect to technology. What I'm able to do is share that with our customer service team who can reach out to Ryan and support him to get that device setup to track his vitals in time for his MRI appointment later in the week. Let's take a look at the experience for the customer service rep. The next day as Ryan's customer service rep, I'm going to reach out to him about his Apple Watch. I'm going to do that within Dynamics 365 Customer Service. Now as the customer service rep, I know Ryan's contact preference is to be contacted by text message. The agent script is going to guide me to complete the workflow, which is going to send a text to Ryan and see if he's available to communicate right now. I kick off the workflow and while I'm waiting to hear from Ryan, I can interact with multiple other patients at the same time within Dynamics 365. When Ryan responds to the text message, I can accept the case and it's going to open up the chat window. As I'm communicating with Ryan, it can even live translate our messages if Ryan's first language isn't English. Now Smart Assist is going to use AI to suggest information that might be relevant for this case. In this case, we're talking about Ryan's Apple Watch. Smart Assist has suggested a knowledge base article with information about how to set up the watch. I can jump into the knowledge base article, find the information that's relevant for Ryan, copy it, and drop it straight into the chat window with Ryan. We can get his Apple Watch working, and ready to share the information in time for his MRI. We're now going to see the experience that Cleveland Clinics Greeter team have using our Greeter app. It's really important for the Greeter team to give every patient a fantastic experience. That means understanding why they're here and how we can support them. The Greeter app uses Azure FHIR to connect out to data sources and pull all the information that the team needs directly into our Greeter app. The Greeter app is built using the Power Platform, using no-code low-code capability. Now as a Greeter within the app, I can see who Ryan is, why he's here, importantly that Ryan needs a wheelchair, and finally, the really clear next steps to understand what we need to do to ensure Ryan gets to his MRI on time. Every year, we see hundreds of patients with symptoms similar to Ryan, and we want to ensure that all receive the best care. For planning out a care journey for those patients, we start by creating a customer insight segment to patients with similar symptoms to Ryan. We create that segment using natural language processing. Once we have the segment, we can then start to plan the journey. The first stage of our journey in this case, is to send out a marketing e-mail to those patients with some postdoc exercises. If we jump into that template, we can understand the information we're going to share with Ryan, and we can even see it viewing on different devices. In this case, Ryan's preference is to view it on a mobile device so we can take look at what that will look like here. Patients who receive proactive outreach from their healthcare provider are proven to have better healthcare outcomes. By designing this journey, we're ensuring that every patient receives that proactive outreach. Today, we've seen an end-to-end journey for Ryan that's been powered by an exciting new capabilities as part of our October release and the Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare. With that, I'll hand back to Oren. Thank you.  Thank you, Lydia and Ryan. What an amazing way to see how patients and healthcare professionals can work safely together, leveraging transactional, behavioral and observational data to truly build patient 360 view and provide the best experiences for patients and care management across any channel everywhere, anytime. Cleveland Clinic, in fact, we're one of the first healthcare organizations in the United States to offer an online COVID screening tool that utilize the Microsoft Health Bot. The power of our solution shines in the breadth of reach wherever that is, the orchestration of customer journeys for patients, virtual and in-person appointment scheduling and collaboration, AI driven Insights and bots, all the way to mixed reality image capturing and the ability to connect to electronic healthcare data systems like [inaudible]. This is all done through our Azure APIs for FHIR. The components are working on a unified, trusted, and compliant platform provided by Microsoft. In addition, and perhaps the most significant to fuel outcomes, the Microsoft Health Cloud offers a tremendous opportunity for our existing partners and new partners to help add value for customers and most importantly, for patients with the general availability of the Microsoft Cloud for healthcare and our upcoming release wave, all of this is ready for you to try later this month. Please go and visit our healthcare Cloud website to learn, try and deploy our healthcare solutions. Over to you and Muhammad.  Thank your Oren. I'm really excited and proud of the work the team is doing in helping healthcare providers enhance how they engage with their patients. Something that's become even more essential and critical in the world we live in today. Shifting gears. Now, we're also seeing tremendous disruption and innovation in the world of commerce. Customers today expect channel agnostic and hyper personalized experiences at the same time when they engage with the brand. We're seeing exponential growth both in digital commerce, as well as in the use of curbside pickup capabilities and physical locations, enabling these experiences quickly without having to wait for months before and implementation is complete, seamlessly meaning they work on top of existing legacy applications, and three, in a way where data drives action has become almost an existential imperative in today's world for brands. This is exactly what our next story is about. Coca-Cola United is one of the largest Coca-Cola bottlers in North America with complex production, marketing, sales, and distribution needs. They needed to be able to set up digital presence for their 2,000 fundraising events they do every year, and they needed to do it in a way that didn't require them to rip and replace existing applications. They also wanted to be able to leverage data in AI in three ways. They wanted to leverage computer vision to identify things like the make and model of the car, to speed up order pickup and determine things like queue length, which are now very important in the world of COVID-19. They also wanted to leverage data in AI to understand their customers more comprehensively across all touch points to predict demand for future events, as well as offer intelligent recommendations to them. They also wanted to protect themselves against fraudulent activities that are really on the rise in an exploding digital economy. Coca-Cola United leveraged the power of Dynamics 365 and Power Platform to enable these capabilities in a way that also created very delightful experiences for their customers regardless of the engagement point. Let me introduce Matt Sheard to you who's going to walk you through how Coca-Cola United has enable these experiences for their customers.  Thank you Muhammad for the introduction. Let me take you through the first demo. I'm visiting the Microsoft, which Coca-Cola created for the Parent and Teachers Association and it's powered by Dynamics 365 Commerce enabling them to purchase which Coca-Cola products they want for their fundraiser. I'll sign into the account which will retrieve my safe profile. Let me see my full audit history and give me a 360 degree view of myself as a customer. Now as a starting point, I might want to take advantage of the Azure powered search within the e-commerce application and find some cherry coke. In my search results, I can see some matching products, categories and also some previously searched items In the upcoming Bing commerce integration, I get predictive typeahead searching and support for synonyms and misspellings. If require more help, I can also engage with a chatbot, giving me further options to get my questions answered. Alternatively, if I want to search, I have the option of being able to pick a category and find the product I wish to purchase. These categories are defined centrally from the commerce HQ and they're available across all websites automatically. I can quickly start to narrow down further what it is I'm looking for by taking advantage of the searcher refiners present on the screen. These refiners are automatically displayed based upon the attributes which I define in the individual product level or at the product category level. I'll select a regular cherry coke now, and here's where I'll land on the product detail page. Now these detail pages are entirely templatize. So the new products added in the commerce headquarters can be shown online without the real need of a market or a merchandiser. I get to see all the images associated to the product along with their description, and I also get the ability to see any available variations of the product, in this case, the sizes. But I could also see variations in flavor, these are reflected in real-time inventory. I'm going to add the cherry coke to my cart and review my order. You'll notice on the screen here that I have some product recommendations being suggested. Now these actually represents some AI powered product recommendations and not necessarily static, meaning it's all based upon real-time data of what others might have purchased. I'd like some diet cokes, I'll add that to my order also. I have various methods in which to pay for this order such as loyalty points, gift cards, credit cards, just to name a few. Dynamics 365 Fraud Protection with adaptive AI technology offers Coca-Cola additional capabilities such as network device fingerprinting and a versatile decision engine to help protect against purchase and account fraud. Using a solution that continuously learns and adjusts, helps to keep them protected, while minimizing wrongful credit card rejections, and keeping the customer's accounts safe. Coca-Cola United can reduce fraud losses, enhance the shopper experience by reducing wrongful credit card rejections also. Now I want to move to the order confirmation. You can see here that my order confirmation provides curbside pickup instructions along with a QR code to ensure that the right products are delivered to my trunk. The same information gets to me in an e-mail confirmation. So for the next part of the demo, let me share with you what the configuration experience looks like. By utilizing the Dynamics 365 site builder tool, I want to show you how quickly it is to build out a responsive and accessible e-commerce website. With the introduction of the new Visual Page Builder, this makes building and configuring a website so much easier than ever before. It also reduces the amount of technical necessity required to get things going. Today I'm going to take you through how easy it is to run a test on the Coca-Cola homepage to see which is going to drive more conversions of browsing into a site, either a personalized list of sparkling drinks or a personalized recommendation list of apparel. Let's take a look. We start by selecting Experiments and connecting to the optimizely platform. We then select an experiment and associated marketing or merchandising page to it. Let's select the homepage. We can specify whether we want to experiment on the entire page or just one part of it. So for this example, let's use the entire page. That's it. Now we can generate the page and the variations and we can exit the wizard. The homepage will automatically load with the first variant selected so you can continue working on the experiment. Let's scroll down towards the bottom and hit the "Plus" on the canvas. This then lets us into either a module or a page fragment, and it also allows us to add product collections and we can configure it to show a list of products. We can select sparkling drinks. A quick double-click on the header allows me to enter in the new title. Now what we need to do is select "Save" to store these updates in our headless CMS. Next let's load the second variation, now, the second list. This time we'll choose apparel. Let's scroll down towards the bottom. That's hit the "Plus" again on the page canvas, let's insert the module. Remember, which is usable page snippets, let's add a product collection module and configure it to show a list of apparel. Here is where we can select apparel this time and a double-click on the header, allows us to change the title. Once we saved the variation, we're now ready to publish. Now with the content published, our experiment is now live and our customers will be routed to one or other variation on the page. We'll monitor these results and choose a winner once we have enough customer views. Search builder also gives you the ability to preview a particular variant so you can see exactly what the customer will say. We'll also select variant 2 and preview the apparel. So the idea here is that something which would typically be a long development effort in creating a new side, we've been able to add the content to the website in a way that is simple, fast, and effective. So let's move on to the next and final part of the demonstration. On the day of the fundraiser, a Coca-Cola delivery truck arrives at the school and sets up a pop-up shop. The shop is staffed by the truck driver and the volunteers from the Parent and Teachers Association and each person has provided a dynamics 365 Commerce mobile, put in Scilab running on Windows, iOS, or Android tablet or phone. Let's take a look. The volunteer arrives at the event and either verbally gives their e-mail address or the volunteer scans the QR code on their receipt. This then sends a notification that they order needs to be packed and picked. As part of that connected store experience coming in October 2020 release. We will have the ability where by cameras can be used to identify say, the vehicle characteristics, and this will automatically send a notification to the mobile point of cell device, allowing volunteers to know that they should be picking and packing that particular order. The scenario is particularly useful for non-touch curbside pickup scenarios.  Here I have the ability to be able to change the status of the incoming notification to "In Progress", letting other volunteers know that I'm about to pick and pack this order for this specific attendee. Here I get a view of the order and I can go about picking and packing the products. As part of the connected store experience, cameras will notify volunteers that attendee lines are getting too long, and the action to resolve this would be for the volunteer to grab another mobile point of sale application and start fulfilling orders. The mobile point of sale application can also support walk-up customers. I have the ability to register walk-up attendees as customers in the application. This is important as it will now with their permission, notify them of any upcoming fundraises. Now, I'll go ahead and enter in all my order details for the walk-up attendee. I can select the products, I can confirm the available inventory in real time, and I can show the Georgia Peach coke that had been craving is actually in stock and on the truck. Once the product is added, I complete the style, I take my payment with a debit and credit card. Now, mobile point of sale application uses the same Dynamics Fraud Protection Integration that we use in the online payments. Again, ensuring safe and secure online payment processing. We've now seen how Coca-Cola United utilizing our Dynamics 365 Commerce application, both for online ordering and for mobile point of sale. For the final demonstration, I wanted to just highlight some of the analytics and insight available to Coca-Cola. Throughout the day the fundraise organizes can easily track how they are performing against their goals and their overall status of the fundraiser itself. The integrated Power BI dashboard enables the organizers to get some in-depth analytics around order fulfillment or to volumes and foot traffic. Looks like today's fundraiser is going to be a great success based upon the number of donations and the financial targets. This truly helps Coca-Cola United when it comes to future events, being able to full-cost demand so that attendees get the product that they want. In addition to the fundraiser analytics, the volunteers at the event can also leverage Dynamics 365 Customer Insights to better understand the attendees in terms of their purchases, what products they prefer, making the overall experience better for everyone. That ends the demonstration of Coca-Cola, I'm now going to hand over back to Muhammad.  Thank you, Matt, such an amazing story. Let's recap the products behind the experience that Matt just showed you. Coca-Cola United use Dynamics 365 Commerce to quickly create a world-class digital experience for their customers. Leveraging connected store, they were able to use the observational data to enhance the pickup experience of their customers, and then finally, by leveraging the world-class AI models in our fraud protection application, they protected themselves against growing online fraud, as well as enabled friction-free experiences for their customers. All without needing a rip and replace any existing systems and all are done literally in eight weeks. As James talked about in the beginning, only Dynamics 365 could have enabled these seamless connected end-to-end experiences, which otherwise, for them, would have meant many different products in tons and tons of integrations across those products. Let's shift gears and talk about supply chains. Supply chains across all industries are getting fundamentally disrupted because of the current pandemic. Most supply chains today are still running on old, clunky, hard to adapt on-premises ERP applications. On-premises, mainly because that has been the only way to create resiliency in the most critical operations against connectivity or latency related issues. The current pandemic has exponentially elevated the need for organizations to have a modern data first, adaptable supply chain solution that provides end-to-end visibility across the breadth of the supply chain. Organizations won those capabilities, those solutions as a SaaS solution, but at the same time they won the resiliency against network outages and latency related disruptions that only on-prem solutions historically have been able to offer. Organizations are also looking on top of all of this to infuse IoT, AI, and mixed reality capabilities to further modernize and automate their operations, which again has become an imperative in the world we live in today. All of this is exactly what our next story is about. Lippert Components, it's a two-billion dollar plus global organization operating over 90 facilities and is the world's leading supplier for recreational vehicle product. Given the current pandemic and the desire for people to rely on road trips, there's a record setting increase in the demand for RVs, and in times like this, running agile and resilient operations is critical for Lippert to be able to meet the needs of their customer. Matt's going to now show us how Lippert Components has created an agile and resilience supply chain operations in their organizations on top of Dynamics 365. Matt?  Thank you Muhammad. Let me jump into the demo for you. Lippert potentially experiencing some challenges in order to fulfill them, and the operation team really wanted to understand why and what was causing some of these challenges. After some deeper analysis, the team were able to identify the possibly a combination of operational and technical issues were contributing to some of the order fulfillment challenges. I want to share with you how they address some of the technical aspects with the introduction of the Dynamics 365 Cloud and age scale unit. The first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to login to the Scale Unit Manager. Now I'm logged in, what we're looking at here is a visual representation of Lippert's global manufacturing and distribution operations. You can see that the Core HQ capabilities are all deployed in North America, and I get a view of the global operations in different countries. Now, when they identify the potential technical aspects which contributed to the order fulfillment process challenges, they are to support that theory through some visualization here on the right hand part of the screen. By clicking on the network latency and the daily traffic load indicators, I get feedback that perhaps we have some challenges between Florence and Oregon. After some internal analysis, what Lipperts are able to identify is that the latency and bandwidth between these two locations was just too great, so they decided to deploy at Cloud-Scale Unit between Florence and Oregon. By doing so, this will allow all distribution activities such as inbound and outbound operations to transact locally in the data center closest to these outlets. Therefore, reducing the network latency and improving throughput, which helps address some of the traffic load challenges across the enterprise. Let me show you how they're able to do that. First of all, I'm going to choose the option, configure scale units. Once I've done that, I'm going to click on "Add Scale Unit". Here I get the choice of whether I want to deploy within the United States or whether in Europe, I'm going to select Europe. By adding that Cloud-Scale Unit, I now have it incorporated into my architecture. But before I actually activate this, what I need to do is create the workload. Once I select Create Workload, I choose the environment in which this applies to, I then have the option of either running my manufacturing execution system workload or my warehouse execution system workload. In this instance, I'm going to choose my warehouse execution system workload, I would choose my legal entity, I would then choose the site, and lastly, which warehouse this is referring to. Now that we've got this configured, let's take a look at what the new architecture could look like after we've made these changes. You can see by the visual, after deploying these in running live in the new architecture, our metrics and KPIs have improved and my bottlenecks caused by the technical challenges had been overcome therefore, supporting my operations. Let's think about this from a traditional architectural viewpoint. Something which would typically take weeks or if not months to coordinate and get up and running with the power of Dynamics 365 Cloud and Edge, we've been able to very rapidly deploy a new Cloud-Scale Unit into the relevant data center, and we'd been able to do that seamlessly. I should also mention an alternative option that's available, and particularly if communications in that area is not ideal, would be to deploy an Edge Scale Unit, and that can be deployed in the actual facility of the warehouse distribution center itself. This provides a hybrid mode of both Cloud and on-premise architecture, and it supports a disconnected scenario. Meaning, even if my back Office is down for some maintenance, operations can function and process locally. In summary, with the introduction of the Dynamics Cloud-Scale Manager, Lipperts have been able to make more informed decisions across their supply chain through visual identification, but more impactfully, make architectural changes rapidly and seamlessly that positively affect their overall manufacturing and distribution operations. Having shared with you how Lipperts were able to improve warehouse operations with the introduction of the Cloud-Scale Unit, I wanted to share with you how they taking manufacturing execution to a whole new level. Firstly, let's look at one of the manufacturing plants of Lipperts. Resilience through local worker consoles was so critical to the overall execution of their manufacturing facilities. What you see here is an example of a particular work center, and in this case, the punching unit. Due to the fact that these devices are shared in a touchscreened, they needed the ability to configure in some time delay scenarios so as to enable workers to sanitize in between shifts. After sanitization, I'm able to login to my device with my credentials. The contrast ratio gives you a different color screen to handle harsh conditions on the shop floor where we might end up with soul screens or broken screens, the visualizations still shows and is very clear to the user. What is presented to me here is a detailed view of the production job associated to a particular work order, and it also gives me the ability to bring in additional telemetry related to that particular production job. Here, for instance, I have some IoT sensory information which displaced for me the overall output of the quantity for that punching machine. Additionally, I can get visibility into the overall equipment effectiveness with some pretty decent results. On the right, if there are any camera feeds, these can also be associated invisible as well. Now I'm going to pause there for a minute and I want to share with you how the machine operators can start to take advantage of mixed reality. Introducing mixed reality into the shop floor provided workers with a guided experience on how to effectively set produce an item, but more importantly, maybe change out a tool which was specific to this particular manufacturing job. The idea here being that a worker can scan the QR code and follow a supercool guided experience on maybe swapping out a tool for this particular operation. Let me tag teaming Ryan from Lipperts to put this video together just to show what the mixed reality experience feels like on the shop floor.  Thanks, Matt. But you're operating at full capacity here in Granby. You need all the help we can get to meet demand. Just by scanning a QR code, I'm launched right into the guides application. This machine is complicated and can be dangerous. Having the instructions overlaid right where the work happens means I can get the job done right the first time. Our procedures are highly variable. Here, depending on the gauge reading, I might have to readjust the machine. Even with changing conditions, guides can branch to the right instructions. HoloLens knows where my hands are when I'm working. Right when I'm done the step, the Spatial Triggers are activated and the guide moves me along to the next instruction. The machine needs to be configured differently to match all the different orders. Branching with Spatial Triggers, that make choices without having to pause and make a selection. I just grab what I need and the triggers activate the right next step. I don't need to leave two different work instructions, so I can move quickly knowing that I'm taking the right action. Guides fits right into our workflows. We can use it for all sorts of procedures across the planet. Matt, I'm working here with older equipment, but it really feels like I'm working in the future. Back to you.  Thanks Ryan. Some really cool stuff Lipperts have got going on right there. Let's get back to our manufacturing execution piece of this. Just to add some additional insight into the context of Lipperts. Due to the fact that there are other systems within the Lipperts Organization, one critical component which was important for them was how do we get an external view of inventory on hand, which other legacy systems can utilize while I transform these solutions onto a single platform. What I'm showing you here is an example of how the manufacturing execution application, is able to leverage the Dynamics 365 inventory visibility service. To enable Lipperts with a real-time inventory on hand view across a range of warehouses, locations, and it's presented to the user, which allows them to click through and identify where these items resign within what warehouse. The inventory visibility as a service capability, provides a hyper-scalable option for external solutions to connect to, so as to provide a true inventory position. All leveraging the Common Data Model provided as part of Dynamics 365. The usage pattern here becomes quite endless as the inventory visibility service can be consumed by vendors, by customers, which therefore provides a much greater connected experience into the Lipperts supply chain, offering more advanced input into scenarios like demand forecasting. That ends the demonstration I wanted to share with you. I hope you got a feel for how technology of today's world is enhancing and helping drive decisions in tomorrow's supply chain and manufacturing excellence. I'm now going to hand back over to Muhammad. Muhammad.  Thank you, Matt. So awesome. Lippert is an amazing example of how they're turning their manufacturing facilities into a here and now example of the factory of the future. They're doing this by leveraging Dynamics 365 to run complex global manufacturing operations in a modern SaaS solution. Whether it's new Cloud and Edge capabilities, Dynamics 365 is the only solution in the world that allows you to run truly resilient operations, protecting our customers against network and latency issues, to run uninterrupted manufacturing and warehouse execution functions. With Dynamics 365 guides, Lipperts is also bringing MXTreality into the manufacturing facilities to provide super-effective, proactive and just-in-time training to the production staff in a heads-up, hands-free manner. Along with many other capabilities in our wave 2 update, I'm also pleased to announce the public preview of engineering change management. In a world of constantly shrinking product life cycles and continuous new product introduction, ECM delivers D product data management version control, and product change management capabilities natively as part of Dynamics 365. We're also pleased to announce a native out of the box customer portal experience built on Power Apps portal, leveraging the breadth and depth of Power Platform. This allows organizations to enable a digital self-serve experience for their customer, which is super critical in today's environment. Speaking of Power Platform, let me now hand this over to Charles Lamanna to talk about how T-Mobile is transforming themselves on top of Power Platform. Charles.  Thank you, Muhammad. For this next section, we're going to be looking at T-Mobile, who's the third largest Telcom in the United States and serves over 80 million customers every month by covering 98 percent of the United States with wireless coverage and capabilities. In the case of T-Mobile, they look towards the Power Platform to go transform all the little bits of their business process, whether it's inside their retail locations or their back office, or how they go track and engage for approvals. They are able to completely reimagine it without requiring a huge team of developers, and by just empowering all of their employees to use a low code capability like the Power Platform. To see the first example of it, we're going to go look to my mobile device where we have a mobile application that T-Mobile authored. What this mobile application allows them to do, is from right inside of their Teams client, they can go discover all these capabilities and they're able to do inspections of the retail locations. This is really important right now for T-Mobile because these inspections are used to go track what's the health of the store, what does it look like, as well as to go manage COVID related cleaning. If I say Go Quick Through, I can see the different locations in the store, I can click on the phone section of the store, I can then say do a store opening walk or the COVID 19 device cleaning step. I'll do the device cleaning one. What's great is you can see that there's a great visual experience right inside of Power Apps, embedded inside of Teams, where I can go market as being cleaned up or in a hygienic with a series of inspection lists. All of this is wired up to the rich native device capabilities. I can do things like take a photo, do a voice memo, or write notes all from right inside this power. This type of experience can be built in a matter of hours or days, not months or years to go transform how T-Mobile operates the retail locations and respond the COVID 19 crisis. Now to get a really good idea of how that was built, I'm going to go switch over to my browser where I can show the new Power Apps in Teams integration. We have a great experience where you can now author Power Apps from right inside of Teams. You can even go do things like install templates and solutions which we ship out of the box, as well as go create and learn rich content from Microsoft Learn about how to use these capabilities. One of the things I really want to call attention to, is the brand new solutions we've released, which can be installed free of charge inside a Power Apps in the Common Data Service. In the case of T-Mobile, they made use of this area inspection solution. We can see this templates installed in my Teams environment. If I just go switch over to the Power App Studio, we can see that the same mobile application I was just using on my phone is visible right inside of Power Apps, right inside of Teams, and it would end up working across Android and iOS devices. If I say Go Quick Through, you can see the same type of experience that I had in the phone around filtering and looking at data and rich multimedia. In the case of T-Mobile, it was really important to make sure it's on-brand, so you can see it has the right colors for T-Mobile. You can even easily drop on things like a header. What's great is this is a header that's published and controlled centrally for T-Mobile. I can just go drag it around and you get a rich T-Mobile logo and a great Back button, all right inside of this power. This is layered on top of the template we shipped out of the box. But what's really interesting and really exciting about Power Apps inside of Teams and which is part of our brand new capabilities, is the new Common Data Service experience. Because although I use a whole bunch of other Office 365 connectors like Planner, Teams, Outlook, I also can easily go edit and update the tabular representation in the Common Data Service in a really native, natural office-like experience. I can see across here, these are all the fields and columns inside of the Common Data Service. I can go edit this column. The folks I know CDS for a while, you see it's a lookup or a relationship to the area inspection checklists table, which is another one stored and managed in Citus Environment. It also has rich types like the option sets as well as data types. I can very easily add a new column by choosing from all of these different options right off the gate. These great capabilities not only it gets stored inside the Common Data Service, but also show up inside of the UI when you build it inside of Power Apps. A really rich experience that T-Mobile was able to create completely inside of Teams, distributed to mobile devices to go transform that last mile of the retail store locations. That's what's great about the Power Platform together with Dynamics is we don't have an app to do it. You can go build it yourself incredibly easily in an integrated way using Power Apps in the broader Power Platform. But I don't want you to think that you can only use Power Apps inside of Teams, we also have a bunch of great announcements for Power Apps outside of Teams. I'm going to go and switch over to another application that T-Mobile is built. This application is called Orbit. What Orbit does is it helps T-Mobile run through very large projects end-to-end across dozens of different departments as ey go to market. These could be things like rebranding, a big phone launch or a big promotion. For the wireless customers all being managed in a central location for such a large company with so many customers. If I launch up the "Orbit Application" inside of Power App Studio, I can easily get to a list view which shows all of those pending projects. In my case, I'm going to go select one right here, which has to do with a device launch or device promotion in September. When I select this, I'm able to go get a whole bunch of great information about summary, or details, or even see who's the pending approvals are for this particular project, across the many departments at T-Mobile. That's what's great about Power Apps is it can bring all the data together across many different silos and bring many different departments together to improve your business process, to go deliver better experiences to your customers more efficiently. On this approval page, we can see that there's a few pending approvals which will be important in just a minute later on in the demo. But anyway, this entire experience was built inside the Power App Studio. One of the great things that it has is the ability to go connect to all the different data sources. The one I want to call attention to in particular today is this one right here. The CDS GTM entries. This is a custom connector that's hosted inside of Azure API Management and registered with the brand new Visual Studio publish experience. So you can very easily leveraged the assets built by professional developers. For T-Mobile, this was key because although this application was being built in the department out of the business, it was important to go callback and leverage developer assets that are hosted inside of Azure. If you go look at all of these different capabilities, although it's that custom connector, you can go use a completely naturally inside of the Power App's formula bar with the expression language you already know and already love. All of this is wired up on top of that same common data service that you could also use inside of Teams. That's really the potential that go make the data help move your business forward, as opposed to only being focused on having people enter fuels and stuff inside of mobile applications. Now, one of the things that T-Mobile is working through is the fact that they're going through a big acquisition merger with Sprint. In the case of Sprint, they actually had a very similar application to go manage go-to-market efforts, and now is the Legacy Web Application. This application doesn't have APIs, it's not easy to integrate with, but with the power of Power Automate, T-Mobile was able to basically automate the integration between Orbit and this Legacy system to go make them have a single end-to-end process and a highly fluid, ever-changing business environment. If I look here at the Power Automate visual designer, we can see that we have a trigger for whenever a record is updated or created inside that GTM entries table. We can see that I'm going to trigger a flow built inside a Power Automate Desktop to go run whenever one of those records are created. In this case, I have registered as attended just for purposes of my demo. But of course you can also make it be unattended, so will run on a VM in the Cloud. All of this is wired up in the Cloud the same great power platform management you already know. But the Power Automate Desktop is the really interesting part of this demo, because this is a brand new announcement that we just had and it builds on top of Soft Motive's Win Automation Desktop Client, which gives over 15 years of experience with RPA and hundreds to thousands of different actions in steps right inside of Power Automate Desktop. If I look here on the left-hand side, you can see all these different options available to me. What this particular bot does is it actually goes and launches that same website for Sprint. It goes and enters a bunch of different information and textboxes and beals and drop-downs. This will be recorded and generates this exact view of all the different capabilities inside of Power Automate Desktop. In my case, to really show that it's actually working, you can see that I could do things like break points and so on. But just to show that this actually is working, I'll click "Run" right here. What this will do without me actually doing any inputs, it's just going to go launch a browser, go to that website, enter all the fields and you can see the little yellow boxes and drop-downs that's being driven entirely by Power Automate Desktop. This is a great way for T-Mobile to start to improve their business process post-merger, post-acquisition, without having to do a bunch of overhaul and rebuild of all the different systems in use today. Being able to respond so quickly to changing business needs is what makes the Power Platform so special. Not just about Power Apps and Power Automate, of course, it's also about Power Virtual Agent. So in the case of T-Mobile, we can see that I have a Teams chat. Inside this Team chat, I'm able to go do things like say, hey, do I have any approvals? This comes back with my pending approvals and these are the same approvals that are stored in the Common Data Service and managed by that Orbit Power App, and from right inside this conversational experience, I'm able to approve, reject, without having to go to a different application or to a different experience using advanced AI and natural language understanding. If I say just click "Approve" on project T-Mobile, we can see that I get a whole bunch of information back really naturally and really easily. What's special about this is that we have a bunch of new improvements that we're announcing today for Power Virtual Agent, we are able to go build your bots from right inside of Teams. This is made possible by this Power Virtual Agent, authoring environment, as well as Teams channel improvements and even licensing change. So you can now use Power Virtual Agent inside of Teams with your Teams license. All of this is wired up naturally and if I say go run through the same series of steps asking about approvals and so on. We can see that this is loading and refreshing the Power Virtual Agent authoring environment and even showing me how I can debug very easily in very rapidly. Just to recap what we saw in the demo; for Power Apps, we have a whole bunch of great Teams updates which make it easier than ever to build and use Power Apps inside a Team's client, as well as great Azure API Management connectivity. For Power Automate, we have the new Power Automate desktop client, which brings a whole broad set of capabilities for robotic process automation. Lastly for Power Virtual Agents; we had an incredibly rich Teams experience just like Power Apps, as well as Azure Bot Framework Integration and across the old and the new capabilities in the Power Platform, T-Mobile has been able to go from a single app with a single developer to now hundreds of apps with hundreds of Power Platform Developers transforming each and every part of their business to let her better service to their customers at a lower cost. To go deeper on the impact of data in this overall transformation. I'm going to turn it over to Arun.  Thanks, Charles. Charles showed you how T-Mobile uses Power Apps and Power Automate to automate their business processes. I'm going to delve into how T-Mobile uses Power BI to get amazing insights. As one of the world's largest wireless carriers, T-Mobile serves over a 100 million customers. As a result, they have massive amounts of data both structured and unstructured. Taking advantage of all of this data and making sense of it and arming the employees is critical to their competitive advantage. However, T-Mobile faced a number of challenges. There was a lot of fragmentation. Different departments use different tools for different projects. As a result, it was really hard for employees to be on the same page. They didn't really have a single source of truth as they were trying to make business decisions. All of these tools resulted in pretty significant cost for T-Mobile. It was not just the cost of licensing because these tools are very, very expensive, but it was also the cost of development, training, and end-user support. It was also hard for them to collaborate. BI is an inherently collaborative experience. When these tools are not designed for collaboration, are not designed for the Cloud, it makes it very hard for a large organization like T-Mobile to effectively empower employees who are working remotely. Lastly, there's the question of scale. Many of these tools couldn't meet the scale demands of the level of data that T-Mobile had. T-mobile began the journey with Power BI a few years ago. They were able to replace all of these tools with Power BI, to drive a data culture for everyone in the organization can make every decision on the data at any scale. Today, T-Mobile is one of the world's largest customers of Power BI, and we're very grateful for their partnership and support. So I'm going to show you four exciting new capabilities that are shipping in 2020 wave 2, and I'm going to demo them all in the context of T-Mobile. The first is a brand new application for Power BI in Teams, think of that as your home for data and analytics built right into the platform that you collaborate. The second, a couple of brand new AI capabilities, more additives and anomaly detection. Third, is we're bringing the goodness of the Power BI datasets directly into your Excel experience. Finally, I'm going to show you how Power BI works with Azure Synapse Analytics to continuously optimize system, that tunes itself based upon the end user query patterns. So let's start with Teams, I'm going to go into my Teams experience over here. You can see that my colleagues and I are working on Store Inspections. So our objective is to ensure that whenever a customer walks into a T-Mobile store, they have a great experience. This is exactly the same use case that Charles was showing you, with the Store Inspections App. Here you can see that I'm collaborating with Miguel. He and I are discussing issues with the very beginning PowerPoint Decks, we're bringing Power BI reports, panel tests, the typical things that you do in Teams to collaborate digitally. However, Miguel's flagged an issue that's been concerning him. So if I delve in here, he's flagged to me that the percentage of issues have been printing up since May. Now that is definitely a concern, and Miguel has included a link to a Power BI report right here. Now when I go into the Power BI report, I'm going to be able to see an end-to-end view of all the inspections that are going on in T-Mobile stores. So in this report, on the top-left, I see the inspections by the area of the store that was inspected. On the top, I can see transport for inspections and personage issues, in the scatter plot on the bottom, I can see the types of issues that were identified cleanliness, clutter, etc. On the right-hand side, I want to draw your attention to this executive summary that's presented. Now we know a lot of business users really value an executive somebody that points out the trends in the data, in addition to having the visualizations. However, this was something that was really hard to do, because you typically had a business analyst go look at the data and write this up on behalf of the business user. In a world in which the data is changing all the time, that's really not very practical. What we've done with Power BI is we've made this ability to detect the trends and write that executive summary completely automatic. So let's delve in and see what Power BI is telling us. When I go into the smart narrative generated description, I can see that it calls out the fact that the percentage issues have trended up 71 percent and that started on May 1st. This is exactly what Miguel called out to me, which caused him to be a little bit concerned about what's going on. So let me delve in a little bit deeper and understand where these issues are coming from. So I'm going to look into the types of issues and see if they have to do with cleanliness and hygiene. I can see that the percentage of issues trended up 23 percent, and I can see that the overall percentage of issues that are coming from cleanliness and hygiene are not significant. Let me go to the second area which is Clutter-free and accessible. When I do that, I get this report refresh itself then on the left-hand side I can see that these issues are pretty material chunk of the overall issues let me see what part B is telling us in the executive summary. Now part B is calling out that there is a 64 percent increase in issues related to clutter and accessibility. So we likely have a problem here. I'm going to just narrow the focus down to the top two areas, the store entrance as well as the waiting area. When I do that, again, the reports refresh itself to just zoom in on the issues related to these two parts of the store. Let me go back into the Smart narratives and see what it's telling us. Here you can see that the percentage issues have trended up 121 percent, clearly we have a problem here. This seems to be the source of the issue. Part B is also telling me something really interesting, that it's calling out that the percentage issues actually declined until June 9th, but then they shot up from that point onwards. Now I have narrowed the problem down to a specific area of this store, the specific type of issue and a specific date. Because I'm in Teams, I can simply share this insight back with my colleagues. I'm going to go back and share this with General, and I'm going to let them know what I found. I can put my message right here, and it includes a link to the Power BI report and when this is shared, my colleagues will not only get my comment, but they'll get a link back to the Power BI report, which when they follow, will bring them exactly to this point, filtered with exactly the right description. So they know exactly what I'm looking at and they can get to the bottom of the issue. You notice that throughout all of this experience, I've never left Teams that's because I'm working in the context of the Power BI app in Teams. When I post that report, I'm actually brought to my Power BI home experience. So I can see my favorites at frequents, I can see my recents, I can see my featured content, and if I'm just getting started with Power BI, I'll find some helpful training material as well to help me learn how Power BI works. So you start a business user experience. Now I'm going to switch gears and show you how easy it was to build these reports, especially take advantage of the AI capabilities. To do that, I'm going to switch to Power BI Desktop. Power BI Desktop is the tool for business analysts to build these amazing reports and dashboards that the business users use. Think of Power BI Desktop as pretty much as PowerPoint for data. It's completely free and it's available in the Windows Store. I am now looking at the same report, but we noticed that it doesn't have the executive summary on the right-hand side. To add the executive summary, I opened up the Visualization panel and literally the only thing I have to do is click on the Smart Narratives visual. When I do that Power BI, within a fraction of a second, has analyzed the data and created this helpful description, which is what the business user saw, and you can see it's flagged the 71 percent increase in the percentage issues. It was that simple to bring an executive summary of what's going on with the data directly into your report. By the way, you can tailor this summary any which way you want, you can change the font, you can change the color, you can also bring in specific data points that you want Power BI to always reflect by just using natural language. When I'm done with that, you can see the Inspections Summary tab is all beautifully formatted and the spot narratives looks exactly like what your end-users are seeing. So that was Smart Narratives, I'm now going to show you anomaly detection. I'm going to go to this report and what you see here is the number of inspections that have happened over the last few months. What you see here is a typical variation. Sometimes it goes up and sometimes it goes down, and many of these might be of no consequence at all because they're just seasonal usage patterns. However, how do you know which ones are real anomalies that need to be investigated versus things that just happen to happen because it's that time of the week, day or month. All I have to do is go into Data/Drill and then click on ''Find anomalies". When I do that, Power BI instantly analyzes the data, and then it calls out a couple of anomalies that it's found. Let me draw your attention to the right-hand side. So here, Power BI has applied as a default sensitivity level of 70 percent. I can ask Power BI to be way more sensitive. So let me drag this all the way to 100 percent and hit "Apply". Now you notice that it's found a lot more anomalies because it has narrowed the variability that's permitted. If I want to understand what's driving any one of these anomalies, all I have to do is just click on that point, and partly it brings up a very helpful description here on the right-hand side. So if we zoom in a little bit, you can see the things that Power BI is calling out. It's identified this anomaly. It's talked about the store, the user, the area inspected, and the checklist item, that was likely the culprit. So very easy to identify the anomaly and go into the root cause. You saw how easy it is for business users, you saw how easy it is for business analysts. Now let me take you to the tool that the world uses most often when working with data, Microsoft Excel. What we've done is we've brought the Power of Power BI, directly into your Excel experiences. If I add in Excel right now and I want to add a pivot table, all I do is click on this icon over here you notice as I zoom in, that there's a new option that shows up in Excel allowing you to bring data from Power BI. When I click on this, and I bring data from Power BI, now, Excel is connecting back to the Power BI service and discovering which datasets I have access to, which ones have permissions to, and then bringing that directly into my Excel experience. But this is just built into Excel, you don't have to install an add-on, you don't have to configure anything, and it's available for every Excel user, E3 and above. So if I were to go ahead and search for the dataset that I'm interested in, it's say store, I found Store Inspections and I click on it, that's pretty much all I have to do as a business user. Excel is not building a pivot table and binding that directly into my Power BI dataset. One thing I want you to notice is that a little bar showed up right here on the top because this is highly confidential data, it was flagged as highly confidential with the Microsoft Information Protection label in Power BI, and the instant Excel connected to the data with permissions, that label was inherited by the Excel workbook from the Power BI dataset. So that means that this Excel workbook is now going to be encrypted because it's highly confidential corporate information. I'm off building a pivot table, I can go off and let's say, add date to the filter, I can add Store to the rows, and I can add Percentage issues, and just like that, I have a completely working pivot table that's bound to my Power BI dataset. The user didn't have to know about the dataset live. They didn't have to find a connection string, they didn't have to authenticate, It all just works seamlessly end-to-end for T-Mobile. The other thing I'm going to show you which is also really exciting, is it's not just a question of working with Power BI datasets in a pivot table, you can actually bring Power BI data anywhere in an Excel workbook. Here, I'm looking at a table, a regular Excel table with a list of stored names, and I'm going to ask Excel to bind this to a Power BI dataset. So I go in into data types, into the data from my organization and simply bind it to my T-Mobile store details. Now what's happening is Excel is taking this table of information, looking at the store names and connecting them back to a Power BI dataset. Let me just zoom in on a particular store and you can see what this experience looks like. It's pretty incredible. This little icon here in Excel, indicates that this is organizational data that's bound to a Power BI dataset. You can notice that this data is coming from Power BI, and there's a lot of helpful information that is available now in Excel that can be pulled in from Power BI. If I want to pull it in, all I do is just click on this little button over here and it keeps bringing the data in. Let me bring in the property type. Then we bring in the size of the store, then we bring in the store manager, let me bring in the time zone. It's just as simple as that. Because it's Excel, I can format it just the way I want to, all of this just works. If I want to add a couple of stores, no problem. Let me add Greenmill and then let me add Flowerbush. As I add these stores, Excel is talking to Power BI, finding the data, bringing it back and filling out the Excel table, it just works and it's very seamless. You saw the experience with Excel. The last part of my demo is I'm going to show you how data engineers and data developers can use Power BI with Azure Synapse Analytics. Azure Synapse Analytics is the next generation of Azure SQL data warehouse. Think of it as the data platform for data engineers and data developers to do everything from ingest data, to explore the data, to analyze with SQL or Spark, and then visualize with Power BI. Power BI is just built-in, so it's really a seamless experience. Let me go into Develop over here. You can see that as I switch to the Develop tab, I can see my data coming in through my ADF pipeline, is coming from different data sources into the data warehouse and the data lake. I can see my SQL clips right here and my Power BI reports as well. It's really helpful for the data engineer to see the same Power BI report that the end user sees. Because as they make changes to the data warehouse and the data lake, they can see the impact of these changes on the end-user experience. What we have done with the Synapse team is we're introducing a brand new capability called performance optimizer. When this is turned on, Power BI and Synapse work collaboratively together to continuously learn from the end-user's patterns and really build a self-learning self-tuning system. So the performance is continuously optimized as usage grows and usage patterns evolve. That brings me to the end of my demo. I've just shown you a tiny taste of all of the amazing new capabilities we have in 2020 Wave 2. Please check it out. I'm sure you'll get a ton of value. Many of our customers really excited about it. The team was very excited. With that, let me invite James back. Thank you.  Thank you so much [inaudible] and wow. Looking across all five of these scenarios, it's incredible, just the amount of innovation the team has been able to deliver this cycle. Starting today and over the next six months, we're going to be rolling all of these capabilities out. But I've got to tell you, I just came off of the planning cycle for our next release wave, and what we have planned for April. If you think this was amazing, Wave 2 of 2020, you're not going to believe what we're shipping next cycle. I believe it's going to be yet another game-changing moment for Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform. So dig in, take advantage of everything that's coming in this wave. We've got some URLs on the screen where you can go get more information, in depth information about all that you've seen today. But I'll go off now and start preparing and looking forward to seeing you again in six months in April 2021 for Wave 1. Until then, thanks so much for your partnership. If there's anything that we can do to support your discovery and leverage of Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform, please reach out, we're here to help. Thanks very much. [MUSIC]  Hello, and welcome everyone to our live Q&A for business applications launch event. Thank you so much for joining us. Before we get started, I want to run through a couple of housekeeping items here. First, please use your chat box to ask any questions. We have a great team of experts live to answer your questions, but we also have experts in the background. So please use your chat box. This session will be recorded and it will be made available on-demand viewing in this site within 24 hours. So you can always come back. To help our moderators, we ask you to please do not spam the chat. With that, we're going to go right in and let's meet our experts. We will start with introductions. First, I'll start myself. My name is Brenda Bown and I lead the Product Marketing Team for Dynamics 365 and Power Platform. Very excited to be here with you. So with that, let's now go to Ray.  Thanks, Brenda. Welcome everyone. As Brenda said, the name is Ray Smith. I lead Dynamics 365 Sales and Customer voice. Any questions around sales, CRM or Customer Experience Management, I'm here, I'm looking forward to the conversation. Thanks Brenda.  Thank you Ray. Now let's go to Sangya.  Awesome. Thank you. Ray and Brenda. I'm super excited to be here for the panelists. I lead the Product Management for Dynamics Customer Insights. I'm super-excited to share all the capabilities that's coming to customer insights and answer any questions that you might have.  Great. Thank you, Sangya. Dina, do you want to introduce yourself?  Absolutely. Thanks, Brenda. Hey Sangya. I'm Dina Apostolou. I look after Product Marketing for the Customer Engagement or the CRM part of our portfolio. So I'd be happy to answer any questions as it relates to go to market or these products.  Thank you, Dina. Let's go to Richard now.  Thanks Brenda. Welcome everybody. I run Product Marketing for Power platforms, so PowerApps, Power BI, Power Automate, and Power Virtual Agents.  Great. Thank you, Richard. Now Stephanie?  Yeah. Thank you, Brenda. Hi, I'm Stephanie Dart. I lead our Product Marketing Team for our operations or ERP applications. I'm happy to be here. Thank you.  Thank you Steph. Ryan, want to introduce yourself?  Hi Brenda, hi everybody? I'm Ryan. I lead the Product Team for Power Apps in the Power Platform Engineering Group. Happy to represent the broader engineering team on all questions Power Platform.  Terrific. Thank you Ryan. Last but certainly not least, Pepijn.  Thank you Brenda. Hi, my name is Pepijn Richter. I spend my days trying to figure out what industry solutions we should develop.  Thank you so much, Pepijn. Thank you everyone for joining us again. Let's just get started with the first question and this one is for Sangya. Sangya, can you please help us recap what is changing in Dynamics 365 Customer Insights, and when can customers start using the new Engagement Insights capability?  Awesome, I'm happy to do that Brenda. I'm super excited to announce that with the October release, we're expanding Customer Insights to include two core capabilities. One is called Audience Insights and the other's called Engagement Insights. Audience Insights is this new name for all the functionality that's available today in GA with Customer Insights that our customers use to ingest data from lots of different data sources into the semantic customer data model that becomes a foundation to allow them to create this unified profile, enrich it with further AI attributes and have predictive analytics, whether it's around segmentation or it's around predicting churn for the customer or customer lifetime value or product recommendations, all with the enterprise grade data governance and compliance. All that functionality is now called Audience Insights. What I'm super excited to announce as we are introducing a new capability called Engagement Insights. Engagement Insights is going to allow organizations to understand how their customers are using their product and services on touch points like their website, like the mobile apps, like the connected devices. Engagement Insights brings a third dimension to Customer Insights, which is all around observational and behavioral data. So as you can see now with all the three dimensions, transactional, demographic, behavioral data, through Engagement Insights, now, we can have between Audience Insights and Engagement Insights, three-dimensional profiles, and three-dimensional interactive analytics. So super-excited about that. Engagement Insights is going to be going into public preview at the end of October. We're so looking forward to our customers and all of you to try it out and give us feedback. Back to you, Brenda.  Thank you so much, Sangya. Yes, I've heard great things about Customer Insights. You're going to get to know your customers like never before with this new capabilities, which is amazing. The next question is for Dina. Does Dynamics 365 include augmented reality solutions? Dina.  Yeah, thanks for the question, Brenda. Dynamics 365 has a set of applications that help industries bridge the world of digital and physical worlds together. This is particularly helpful as we think about industries in terms of retail and manufacturing. Over a year and a half ago, we started to talk about our vision around bringing the physical worlds and that data into the core products and how we architect our Dynamics 365 portfolio. In modern business applications, such as within the Dynamics 365 portfolio, we do offer these types of applications such as Microsoft Dynamics 365 guides. As we think about being able to help on the frontlines of manufacturing and thinking about where that can actually go in terms of the factory of the future, as well as we think about Dynamics 365 Remote Assist, and being able to use this technology at touch points that allow our front line workers to stay safe while also being able to have the subject matter expertise from, let's say, technicians that are back at the office. Then finally, we have Connected Store, which is in preview that we've already talked about. That is also another great rich application as we think about those physical touch points and locations within a retail location. The answer is yes. Thank you. You can go online to learn more about our line up and mixed reality applications as well as HoloLens 2.  Thank you so much, Dina. It is amazing to see the breadth of our portfolio as James highlighted in his keynote as well. The next question is for Pepijn. Pepijn, what is the plan for extending finance and operations of an insurance industry as CDM for industry accelerator?  It's a great question. In general, we see these common data models as the common language that both IZs and customers use. We definitely have an intention to make sure that we spend the full customer journey. If you look at health care, for instance, all the way from patient engagements to patient care to billing and payments. Therefore, we want to expand these common data models and also which data entities that support and operational and financial processes. At this moment, we are still working through, what is it that roadmap. But FSI is definitely one of the important industries that we have at the roadmap. Please stay tuned for an any specifics on insurance.  That's great. Thank you Pepijn. So excited to hear about our industry efforts with Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform. The next question is for Ray from Amy. Love that integration of Power BI in Teams, is it possible to have the same level of integration within Dynamics right?  It's a great question, Brenda. It's actually a huge area of investment for us. We see as part of this shift of what we're saying going on, not just because of COVID, but also because selling within our organizations is a Team sport so it requires uber collaboration across the organization. I think when you look at a platform such as Teams that is one of the market leading collaboration platforms, the key way to bring it to the front office is to bring that context of the front office. The overlay of accounts, opportunities, leads, and contacts, etc. One of the areas we're working on is around contextual collaboration imbedded within Dynamics and making that a continuum experience from Teams, but also within Dynamics. That is something that's coming in preview in January. We're super-excited about it. We see as a big disruptive differentiator in the market around how teams work together, sell, market and service customers also willing to give an amazing customer experience. So we're super-excited by that.  That's great. Thank you so much, Ray. Speaking of Teams integration, Richard, and this one is for you. How do you see Power Platform in Teams integration evolving? It seems there's a lot of momentum here with the new announcements. So can you recap a lot about the announcements that we have with Power platform and Teams integration, and what are some of the vision of this pieces coming together?  Exactly. So it's been a huge investment area for the last, probably 12-18 months to bring together the strength of the Team's environment, meetings, video, voice is domestic with the power of the Power Platform, really to help people build apps that are useful to them within the Teams environment, but also to help them avoid context switching between Teams and other line-of-business apps. That momentum has only increased over the last six months given the world we live in at the moment and where tons of people working remotely, and if we can make it easy for people to build solutions to the problems, build business apps that fix their problems, and make them easily available in a tool that they use every day, essentially lots of people live in like Teams, that's only that's any good stuff. So you see a ton more from us here. We recently announced the ability to build more complex apps in Teams using Project [inaudible] that was announced through Inspire, and they also added new capabilities around being able to build virtual bots with Power Virtual Agents in Teams as well. So there's lots more commonly, so definitely keep an eye on what we're doing. But I go really here is to bring strength for teams together with the power of the Power Platform and that the [inaudible] will be greater than the sum of the powers.  That's super exiting to here, Richard. Thank you. The next question is for Ryan from Fortunato. Thank you very much for that presentation, it's wonderful. My question is, are there any exciting news regarding PowerApps Portals, anything new that is coming up?  It's a great question. I would say PowerApps Portals has had just a really amazing growth curve in the last few months, especially as so many customers and organizations have had to respond to COVID both the direct healthcare effects and all the indirect effects and how we're all working differently now. We've just seen more than a doubling of usage at really high volume in just the last few months of portals because it really fits this need of not just putting a website out there on the internet for all your external users, but really being able to back it with an application with business process, with data, and it is an area that we're starting to invest really heavily to make sure that more and more people can get that type of value. So there's a lot of exciting stuff going on in the portal space. A few things that we're really working on. In addition to really pushing the boundaries of what you can do is a low code portal maker. How successful you can be in the designer experience, and how far you can push it. We're also working to integrate it with the broader Power Platform, including working on bringing things like PCF controls, custom ProDev built controls into the portal environment as well as the low code environment. So tons of cool innovation coming on the portals front. Definitely watch the space. It's definitely meeting a need for customers in a big way right now.  Thank you very much, Ryan, really appreciate it. The next one is for a Stephanie. What supply chain scenarios Stephanie are enabled with the new Cloud and H capabilities that just launched and Dynamics 365 minutes to the hardware?  Thanks Brenda. The new Cloud edge skill units, what they do is they allow you to actually run both manufacturing and warehousing execution on the edge or in the Cloud. It's not just about computing IoT data. It's actually a full execution system, and this is really exciting for us because we have customers who have critical processes that need to run very quickly and they have a need to isolate them for maybe everything else that's going on in their factory or in their warehouse, for example. I'll use Monogram Foods as an example. They have a frozen goods warehouse and as you can imagine, that's a very tight time constraint process, you can't delay. You can't have this stuff melt. It's catastrophic and it costs a lot of money if you let that happen. They actually isolate to their food picking process in their frozen goods warehouse on the edge so they're seeing a ton of benefit from that. Then I think the second part of the question was around the actual hardware itself and Dynamics does not manage the hardware, it's actually flexible, where you bring your edge hardware and we connect to that. Thank you.  Great. Perfect. Thank you so much, Stephanie. The next question will be for Ray again. Ray, with the increased attention on privacy and customer information, how is Dynamics 365 enabling businesses to stay compliant?  I think the world over privacy is up before of AMI business application decision and obviously it's outmost importance here at Microsoft. If you think about all the sources of data, it really comes down to how do you enforce compliance and control over that data, particularly when you start bringing it into core application. It's very important, very topical and very stringent, probably Sangya might want to chime in as well from a customer data platform or Customer Insights perspective, because there's even more data that being aggregated and pulled together and obviously being tightly controlled from a privacy standpoint.  I would just add to what Ray was just saying. You actually saw in the Campari demo. For Campari, for example, as one of my customers, it was super important that they have these data actually reside in the regional area, because they do these regional events and they want to customer data to stay within that region. So because we're built on a enterprise grade level compliant platform, we pay a lot of attention around that and provide all the governance capabilities in order to do that. Similarly, around security and privacy, we have as the connect to a lot of the different data sources, we look at certifications and connectors to comply with those. So those are some of the few examples that we keep in mind as you build this compliance and data governance roadmap for our products.  Thank you so much, Ryan and Sangya. So we're can I go back a little bit to to Ryan from Richard. We have a question. Do you have a sample code of conduct to help companies establish guidelines between citizen developers and IT, as IT seems to be scared about what citizen developers can do and achieve with the Power Platform?  This is a great question and it tends to shape a lot of our conversations with customers and especially larger organizations going forward. As low code is really taking off in its current form with Power Platform, a lot of people who have lived through experiences of the past with Excel spreadsheets full of macros and InfoPath Forms and Access databases, look at this from an IT perspective, rightly so and say, how do I keep this secure? How do I keep it under control? How do I make sure that we develop responsible solutions that are well-documented and have a lifespan and that we don't end up with a bunch of clutter in the organization? At the same time, they also look at the reality of the economic situation that a lot of us are in right now and the fact that digitally transforming our businesses is no longer optional. It has to happen, it has to happen fast and it has to happen with more pressure than ever before. So getting this balance right is absolutely crucial, and getting the balance right between IT and citizen developers and also professional developers who participate as force multipliers on the platform is entirely what organizations who have scaled Power Platform to tens of thousands of users and thousands of solutions have gotten right. To the question directly, yes, we are starting to get much more direct about publishing guidance and best practices there. There's a link which we can share verbally and maybe on the chat aka- Aka.ms/powerplatformguidance. That actually is entirely focused on this question; how do I structure the relationship between IT and citizens? How do I set up a center of excellence? What are the governance tools available for me in the platform? There's just so much more available here to manage and secure and set policy and participate in citizen developments, than there ever was in the past, for so for more classic examples of it. And you see organizations like Toyota, the National Railway in France, SNCF, Schlumberger, the multinational energy company, really embracing this value and interacting proactively between IT and citizens to make this go faster. Low code is very much a team sport and we're excited about playing it, but check out that aka.ms/powerplatformguidance for just a great starting point into where to go.  That's great. Thank you so much [inaudible] that's very helpful information, including where to go. The next question is going to be for Dina. Dina, we've seen how customers have been using Dynamics 365, most recently in the COVID environment. Can you please share a couple of examples on how Dynamics 365 has been used during this COVID environment that we're living in.  Yeah, absolutely. Great question. We are seen that organizations are really responding with agility and thinking about how to apply technology right now as they're thinking about how do I keep my employees and my customers safe as well as plan for the future and what's unexpected. These decisions that organizations are making now, they're looking at these processes and these applications to help them in the long-term. A few different examples that I can speak up. For example, as we talk about Dynamics 365, Customer Voice and Power Apps and Power BI, is being used by Toyota as part of reopening their manufacturing facilities. They use this technology to send health status check surveys to their employees and then they were able to visualize the data, analyze it, monitor health survey data, and so that they could come back with a thoughtful recommendation for the business in terms of making informed decisions, so that they could rapidly deploy a workplace health and safety plan for their employees who return to work. As I think about customer service and New York State, Microsoft worked with the state and local government employees and specialists to design and implement an application to manage COVID tests, including appointments, screening, results tracking and results. Typically this would have taken 6-8 weeks and the team designed and implemented a solution in just a matter of five days so that they could handle 2,000 testing appointments per day. If you shift over to what companies are doing to think about how do I adapt my business models in terms of quick serve like Chipotle, being able to bring all data sources together and context is also understanding behaviors of customers and prospective customers in terms of the pandemic. They're able to create these rich profiles and then personalize their ad targeting and using Live Facebook and LiveRamp to send more personalized messages to their customers and then also thinking about that in terms of loyalty and rewards. These are just a few examples where we're seeing some great innovations from our customers and in response to COVID and the technology that business applications is providing to them.  That's great to hear Dina and I know that there's many more we [inaudible] thank you for highlighting those as well. The next question is for Richard. I've noticed some increased investment in automation recently and you acquired Softomotive. Can you share some insights on what the strategy is here?  Yeah, certainly. Our goal here is to do with automation what we've done with things like Power BI, which is democratize access to it. The more you can put this technology in the hands of people to understand the business and the closest the data, the quicker people can literally solve their own problems and work with it. Our goal is to create a ubiquitous access to things like RPA, things like DPA, all through to Power Automate. There's heavy investment there, I'm in the product itself. You saw us, possibly, I think three or four months ago, acquire a company called Softomotive, if you've got a bunch of strengthen RPA, and we recently rebranded that desktop tool to Power Automate Desktop. There's going to be a ton more investment in that to make it a kind of holistic, end-to-end desktop automation piece of software. And then we've also done a whole ton of work, again, with like people like the Teams team, with SharePoint through a bunch of modern work and through the Dynamics as Teams as well to embed Power Automate into a ton of places there. It just makes sense for users when they're using the software to be able to leverage the strength of automation in the tools that they currently work in. So lots and lots of focus in this space. Like I said, you've seen as invest heavily with things like the supplements through acquisition. So again, yeah, keep an eye out on what we're doing there because we're we going at its trunk.  It's great to hear, and I know that we're going at its trunk. Thank you for sharing Richard. So Papai (phonetic) the next one is, again, on industry. Are there any exciting plans for charity sector, NGO needs, and a Power Platform, as well as the wider context of the portfolio.  Is a great question. Answer is yes. It's a great struggle so far for the release notes. Please check out the release notes because we have an accelerator for non-profit organizations and there's actually much more to come, so more investments in the future. So definitely a focus industry for us  That's great to hear. Sangya (phonetic), the next question is for you again, on Customer Insights. There's a lot of interest and excitement in Customer Insights. How did the change itself, the new capabilities impact existing customers? What are the implications on licensing Customer Insights with all the innovation that came in this release  Yes. As I talked about, like Engagement Insight that goes into preview and it's the end of October and basically all the existing customers will get access to this preview without any disruption or without any further subscription. When we go really GA next year, that's when we will disclose on any updates that we would have for licensing. But for now, all existing customers, no impact. They will in fact get along with all the capabilities they have with Audience Insight, they it will get the preview of Engagement Insights.  That's great to hear, thank you Sangya. We have five minutes left, so I think we're going to go for a couple more questions and then wrap it up. This one's for Stephanie. Stephanie, what is the future of billing for the new Dynamics 365 Project Operations? And will we be able to use some of the licensing that we have, some of the Team Member license for employees to track their project activities in timekeeping?  Yes, thank you, Brenda. So for project operations, we're really excited. This is bringing together some great technology that we already have and have been, our customers have been using for many years when it comes to managing projects with centrally as a Team, as well as how do you sell and give quotes to your customers for projects, as well as the full accounting piece. We have a full breadth of a solution that we're bringing to market, and it's actually today, it's generally available, so this is very exciting. What's great about that is, we've packaged it up together in a very easy way for companies that do manage projects, whether they're large or small and we're pulling all of those capabilities together. Just like any of our other Dynamics 365 applications, you can buy it standalone, you can buy it with our other applications. It has different licensing or access options just like Team Member. And so we've got a ton of information about that now that has gone live on our website, related to licensing and pricing. So I encourage people to take a look at the web for the latest refresh on that information.  Thank you so much, Stephanie. We're going to take one last question and this is for Ray and Dina, both in the current environment, remote and digital selling are top of mind. How are our product plans with Dynamics 365 and the Power Platform, aligning to that? What do you have coming up? What's changing to make sure that we address the needs of digital selling.  Yeah, I'll go first, Dina, just to highlight for what's coming on the road-map standpoint. I think this is an interesting one because we were heavily invested in velocity selling, your inside sales motions, all-round accelerator, conversational intelligence, forecasting, all that predictability. That was driven with efficiency or efficiency tried to funnel at the core of the focus. Obviously COVID happened and we were all slammed into a different world. And, really, the change happened where all those field sellers, all those relationship sellers, were effectively picking up the same tools to engage their customers. And instead of efficiency being at the top of mind, which is obviously important for any sales organization, it shifted to more around how do you deliver that custom experience in this new world, so omni-channel. How do you engage at the right time, at the right place? Ultimately, how do you show that empathy back? Where customer voice getting enough feedback so that you're listening to the customers. For those we found our road-map shifted from inside sales or velocity selling to just becoming remote selling or digital selling, almost the same investments. I think one area that surprised me, was our investment around a new native mobile app that's currently in preview, and our Customer Advisory Board put their hands up and said, we really want you to double down on that, and we were like, Why? You're paving the streets. You're not jumping on and off planes. They're like, yeah, but I need to help out my kid at home, I need to have this mobile device to be top class. I would say our road-map has just double down on that omni-channel, the collaboration under the intelligence around when we connect to customers.  Yeah, I think that's great, Ray. The only thing I would just add, an extra, maybe, emphasis on is, we have been, as you said, investing in guided selling as we think about Sales Accelerator, and then with this release, we are giving sellers the ability to generate Teams calls right within the experience that they know in their everyday workflows. And so when you start to think about bringing the conversation intelligence and monitoring conversational KPIs and having advanced Business Insights on top of that. It starts to add a layer of sentiment with the seller and even a sales manager is picking up on in terms of providing coaching and guidance back to that seller, to know how the customer may be feeling at that point in time? How are things that are outside of just the business topic but the pandemic affecting them, and the tonality of the conversation? So those types of rich capabilities, I think, are really important and unique to where Dynamics 365 can bring and help accelerate as we think about more remote selling in the future.  Thank you so much Dina and Ray. So time flies when you're having fun. Thank you to our panelists. We come to the end of our live Q&A. Thank you for participating. Thank you to everyone for joining us today, we will get as many questions as we can on the TED window after this event and thanks again everyone for watching us and see you soon.  Thank you.  Thank you-all.  Bye. [MUSIC] 