 Well! The sky is looking very cloudy today, but, by using Photoshop Camera, you can turn it into a blue sky. Yay. Do you want to be on the camera with me? Hello guys, it's Yusuke Okawa. Today, I will talk about a new release from Adobe called Photoshop Camera. This is an innovative app that provides both photography for mobile phones and high digital photo editing technology for free. By the way, this is not sponsored. Adobe, which is known for Premier Pro and such, is a company that develops numerous software. I'm sure you all know that they have a long, steady relationship with my favorite, Apple. In recent years, they have come up with Adobe Rush, which allows you to do mobile editing. I believe that there are many applications that enable you to complete creativity only on your smartphone. That trend can not only be seen in software companies, but also on an iPhone 11 pro which has triple lenses and Expedia which can film in 8K. Really, the idea that smartphone will complete every imagery expression is, I believe, something that is possible in the near future. With only an iPhone, one gets to film easily, edit, and share it on SNS as a form of memory. I think that this healthy way of using the SNS is the essence of such and I want to tell this to the entire nation, but I'm not going to go deep in that topic and talk about the app to you guys. First and foremost, the Photoshop Camera is unbelievable. It's not phenomenal, it's UNBELIEVABLE. There are three points for it to be unbelievable. First, it's super easy. Second, it has a variety of lenses. Lastly, it's creative. Really, it's easy and creative, the variation of lenses is connected to the first and the last point, so I am going to explain each point briefly. I will be doing so while actually looking at the application with you. When I say it's easy, it's actually super easy to use. Basically, the application is free. I've introduced different software for an iPhone in the past, which ranged from ones that charge to ones with in-app purchases, but regarding the Photoshop Camera, it is free of charge. When you open the application, it's genuinely the same as an iPhone camera. Just like this, you can film here. When filming, if you push the star button on the lower-left corner you can choose lenses. You can film while looking through the lenses, or, when you finish filming and decided on the composition, you can add the lenses afterward and save it. That's basically it. You film it, choose your favorite lens to go with it, export it, and you are done. Share it on SNS. Just like that, you can use Photoshop Camera really easily. That was the first point. Second is the variety of lenses. In the past, when it comes to lenses, just like this, I am currently using 24/35mm by SIGMA, you had to take this kind of lens off the camera and adjust it depending on the focal length such as 16mm or 50mm, since the expression changes depending on the focal length. I honestly thought thinking about those lenses on an iPhone is not realistic. Companies such as Moment are coming out with telephoto lenses or macro lenses, but this app went passed the concept of putting lenses on a phone and invented creative and entertaining lenses within the software, which are basically filters. The fact that there are more than 80 different filters is innovative, in my opinion. Like the one that I filmed with the universe, even though it was raining heavily today, you can also change it to a blue sky. It also has comics, which is like being inside a world of comic books. It really has a variety of lenses within the app, thus it enables you to create the worldview to your liking. By the way, there is a lens created by Billie Eilish. So if you are interested, please check it out. The last point is that it is very creative. The point which I think is creative, firstly, is the wide range of lenses. Of course, each lens is polished and refined. You choose your favorite picture from the gallery button on the right hand and edit it, but when it comes to these applications, the camera becomes very heavy and slow and the details on editing tends to be weak or insufficient. However, the best part of this Photoshop Camera is that it is polished and refined. It's polished and refined. You can tell when you scale it as well, but the seam, the seam between the composite sky and the ground image, tends to show up dull and unrefined when using this type of software. However, when it comes to Photoshop Camera, it is very refined and the resolution, just by looking at it, does not show any noise which makes it very clear. Originally, when using Photoshop, which I have done it before, you import a material such as earth and, in order to create a mystical expression, add blue fog by pulling different composite material and put it there. However, all of it, with the use of an AI system called ADOBE SENSEI, that AI system will create this kind of mystical worldview in an instant just with an iPhone. Those are the Adobe Photoshop Camera's most attractive points. There are no other things to explain about this app than the fact that it is refined, concise, and simple. So, for those of you watching this video, please search Photoshop Camera on the application and I hope you download it. For this video, although I am a video creator, Photoshop Camera is basically for taking photos only. But, a video is a set of numerous photographs, and it has 24-30 fps in one second. So, personally, this Photoshop Camera became very heavy on my phone, and had a difficult time with it, but basically, I burst shot it, connected them, and made a nice video which I showed you at the begging of this video. Video creators who are watching this and thinking that photographs are not enough for you, you can burst shot many pictures, although the editing might be difficult, and, hopefully, use it. As for the points which I expect for the Photoshop Camera from the viewpoint of a video creator, There is a software called Adobe Rush which allows you to edit on your smartphone, I hope to film videos or timelapse on Photoshop Camera and, since it seems hard to transition to Adobe Premiere Rush right now, if it comes with those functions, I think it will be very exciting so please, Adobe-san. By the way, Properly, Tes... it's called Tesla, I have to show Tesla properly and introduce to you guys, so nice to meet you. Yay. I will continue on sharing creative tips on videos and photographs to you guys so I hope you will stick around. If you like this video, give it a thumbs up and comment down below. Thank you so much for sticking around until the end. Have a great day. Bye~ 