 (logo whooshing and clicking) (upbeat music) For tonight's topic, the focus I think begins with wanting to understand human biology. Human bodies, in fact, all biological organisms, are very complex. And to understand them, often requires what we call models. And those models don't mean that you are exactly duplicating what that system is, but it's a way to try and understand some aspects of that system. One of the areas that would be most fascinating and most valuable to learn about is the human brain. Both because we're interested in ourselves and how we operate, but also because of many diseases that affect the brain whether it's autism or epilepsy and others. So if we could somehow isolate parts of the human brain and study it, that would be ideal. And tonight's speaker is one of the people working from a perspective of stem cell research that allows us to do some of that. Alysson Muotri, who is our speaker, you can see in your programs the description of his many credentials and his excellent work in this area. But he is a really good example of what the ethics center is looking for. He knows from a scientific perspective and seeing diseases. He believes that his work is very important, but he also knows that there are ethical questions that go with that work. And so he's been one of the leaders that UCSD now asking for ways to try and have conversations about those ethical challenges and figure out how best to meet them. Part of that willingness is his willingness to come here tonight and join us to talk about using a modeling system to look at the human brain. So join me in welcoming Alysson. (audience clapping) - Alright. Thank you so much Mike. I cannot stress enough how important it is, this kind of conversation especially when it's a cutting-edge technology. Not many of us have heard or familiarized with that and sometimes especially when stem cells are involved. This might sound futuristic but it's actually happening right here, right there. I think that's why I appreciate the opportunity to share what's the work that's been cooking in my lab at UCSD. I am a geneticist. By formation I got a PhD in genetics. I am also a neuroscientist, and I've been working on the Pediatrics Department at UCSD. I'm also the director of the stem cell program at UCSD, and I hope you can appreciate how those two things will intersect during my talk. But before I start, I wanna just to point it out that one of the main reasons I'm here is because of this guy. And he's my son. (laughing) And he's super cute. (audience laughing) He's 12 now. He's a little bit older. But he has autism and epilepsy. And these are conditions that really affect his life. So it's really hard for him to go to school. He's nonverbal to communicate, adds lots of stress. There's lots of things that happen in his daily life that is really hard and I sympathize with that. And many of those disorders, they actually started very early during brain development. And that's one of the key things about what I do. It is the fact that the human brain, while in uterus, is inaccessible. So we cannot really recruit a pregnant woman to come to my lab and offer the embryos so I can study their brains, especially the ones that have high risk for autism so that's not acceptable. So we rely on non-invasive methodologies like the ultrasound so we could visualize the embryo while in uterus. The problem with these methodologies is that they don't have the definition or the resolution to go in deep and really probe what's going on in a single cell at the level of the synapses. And more importantly I cannot really experiment with them. I cannot test what's going wrong. So I can just observe. So it's a passive type of research. And I think Mike pointed out that we as a scientist, we keep looking for models. I mean and this is a key thing in this type of research. So before I start I want to stress what is a model? And all the time when I ask my friends or the audience, what is a model, I get different perspective, different answers. I'm coming from Brazil, and when I ask my colleagues what is a model, they often related to this type of model. (audience laughing) Right? and to be honest, they are not wrong. This is a model. The same way that this is a model of a train. Or this is a model of a flying machine. And the point is models are not perfect, or simplified versions of the reality. And all of those are in a way simplified versions of the reality. Not all women look like that. Not all airplanes look like that. But we kind of experiment with models, trying to understand what's reality. And the best models are the ones that you can improve in complexity to get closer and closer to the reality. So that's important in stem cell biology. So the models we have right now to study the brains are the following. We have post-mortem tissues. I mean these are people that just die and they donate their brains to science. And I can take advantage of these post-mortem tissues and kind of look what's the structure of the brain. But post-mortem tissues are hard to get. They are dead tissue. I cannot see live cells. I cannot ask how the live cells are doing. And most of the time they come to me when the subject has passed away in different conditions, for example, a car accident, and that adds a different level of variables that I should consider and most of the time we don't have all these variables. We don't know if the individual has taken drugs, for example. All of those can affect my interpretation of the tissue. So the other type of model is blood. And we take blood from lots of diseases. And we study what's going on with the blood cytokines, immune responses. But the problem is blood are not brain cells. And blood does not make or form synapses or connections between these brain cells. So there is a limited information I can take from blood cells. And finally I think this has been like the key model for biomedical sciences in the past years, is animal models. And most of them are done with mouse. These are like small rodents that you can kep them in the lab and do experiments with them. But mouse models, especially for complex disorders like autism, are not ideal. In autism you have a lack of communication, eye contact, verbal communication with each other. Do you know how mouse communicate with each other? They sniff each other's butt. (audience laughing) so how can we compare that to the human behavior, right? I mean we don't do that, some of us don't do that. (audience laughing) But this is the point, I mean, we are lacking a model of the human brain. And this has been the major reason why we don't have new drug for neurological disorders. You can see that cancer has developed many drugs, many therapies. Neurological disorders are falling behind. We have many drugs for heart, but not the brain. So the lack of a model, a good model. So I'll be talking today about these idea of a mini-brain in a dish. And I'll start right there saying that this is the name that is catchy for the media. When you talk about a mini-brain in a dish, that's immediately what you imagine, that whoa yeah, these guys can grow these brains inside these Petri dishes. But that's a horrible name because that's not it. And I'll show you exactly what it is. But it's a catchy name and people have been using it. And I mean so far so good as long as you understand that this is not the real representation. And even this model has limitations. I'll start right there by pointing these limitations for you. So most of the time these mini-brains, or brain in a dish, are immature. They are not fully vascularized. Not all cell types are represented. We don't even know how to grow them because the human brain grows in uterus and we don't have access to the uterus. And we don't know if what we learnt from these mini-brains in a dish can be translated to the brain of that person. So it's all unknown. So we have asked ourselves if this technology can be really disruptive as a new model for neurological disorders. And we don't have that answer right now. So the way we generate these mini-brains in the lab is by using cells that have been re-programmed from people. So these are skin cells or dental probe cells that they can take from the subjects of my research, for example, my son. I got cells from his body and I transformed these cells into pluripotent stem cells. And from these pluripotent stem cells I can use a recipe with different factors and different nutrients to guide them to become brain cells. And over the time they self-organized. That's the key thing. In the past I thought that I would have to teach the cells how to do it, but they can self-organize, and start to mature and form different brain regions or different types of brain cells in there. So this is Isabel. She's a post-doc in my lab. And what she's doing is handling a dish. In each well of those, there are these white dots. There's about hundreds of them in each well. So each one of these white dots is one of these brain organoids. So they can take up to 1/2 centimeter. That's as much as they will grow. Why they don't grow bigger? Because they are not vascularized so nutrients cannot get inside to make them grow bigger. So they're limited growth. But the point is all the time when we generate them is not a single one, we can generate hundreds, if not thousands of them at the same time. And the reason why they are small, can be an advantage because we can use for drug testing, for example. I'll touch on that a little bit later. So when I mentioned that they can self-organize, they do because they have the genetic programming to do so. And this is exactly how they do in the real brain during development. On the top you have the progenitor cells. These are cells that have just been born. And they will migrate out. You can see that there are some cables. They are cells that project cables outside of the center of the organoid right there. They will migrate out and start to specialize in the different cell types that form your cortex. We're focusing on the cortex because that's the brain region that is involved in high cognition, in memory and learning. So this is your cortex. Diseases such as autism, epilepsy, it's all affecting your cortex. So we specialize into the cortex. There are other brain regions that we can develop recipes for these cells to become as well. And so if you just slice one of these brains, and check it out, I mean, how they look like. You're gonna see something like that. There is a ventricular zone in there. Something that looks like empty space but they are surrounded by this progenitor cells and they would migrate out as I said, following those cables. These are specialized cells that help the migration of these neurons. And they will form this cortical plate. So this is what happens at very early stages in uterus. So you're able to recapitulate that. So there is some organization of the tissue of the structure, and that was something that we never had in the past. So by the way these are advances that are happening in the past five years or so. So it's quite new that we can get to that level of resolution and organization. We also run experiments to determine what kind of cells we have in there. So this is a graphic where we have different dots. Every single dot is a cell. And these cells were dissociated from one of these organoids. And we spread it out. And we ask what's the identity of those cells. So most of these cells are neurons that are excited. So these are the ones that pass the information. We do have some neurons that are inhibitory neurons. They come in to in a lower percentage but they grow over time. And then there are also glia cells or other cell types that help these neurons to mature and form all the proper connections. We have a good representation of the cell types, but not always, just like the beginning of the human development. And we can compare that with post-mortem tissues. We've done some experiments in that sense. And what this graph gets here's are showing is that these are tissues from embryonic stages to a 60-year-old person. And we have a global gene expression. These are genes that are being activated over time. And the red shows that as we aged these organoids by one month and three month, the number of genes that are activated matches different developmental stages suggesting that they are maturing in the dish. So they are not only growing, but the neurons are becoming more mature. And they follow exactly the human trajectory which is another thing that was a big surprise for us. So now I show you that at the molecular level, they resemble the human brain. And I show you that there are structures that also resemble the human brain. These are pretty good advancements from the neuroscience perspective. So the question is can these technology be useful? And the first thing that came to my mind, I was just developing this technology. And I told you I'm from Brazil. And it was about the time when the Zika virus was striking as an outbreak in the northeast of Brazil. So I contact my friend. I said can I get an aliquot of the Zika virus because if it's the Zika virus that's causing all the brain defects, I can test because I cannot use an animal because the Zika virus does nothing to an animal but it could do something to the human brain. So at that stage people were almost discarding that the Zika virus was the causation of this birth defect because we have no proof. Here's my small contribution to that outbreak. We actually were able to expose these brain organoids to the Zika virus. And we publish this work suggesting that there is a direct causation between the Zika virus in the microcephalic cases that was born in the northeast of Brazil. What did we observe? As we expose the brain organoids to the Zika virus, the virus migrate inside the organoid, kills all the progenitor cells. And as a consequence you have a reduced cortical layer. So that was the mechanism that the virus was using to cause microcephaly. Good news since we know that the Zika virus can destroy, can kill these brain organoids, we could use that as a drug screening platform. This is another work where, I don't know if you can see here, in the first image are some of the brain organoids. Here is when we exposed the Zika virus. It kills all these brain organoids. But then we test some drugs, and this is a drug that protects the brain organoids from the viral replication. And it's a drug called Sofosbuvir. That is already approved by the FDA to use in hepatitis virus, against the hepatitis virus. So we were able to repurpose this drug in a record time. It will take years if we didn't have that technology to find a drug against the Zika virus. So now if there is a second outbreak anywhere in the world, we know which drug we could use to treat those pregnant women that are positive for the Zika and hopefully the babies will not born with microcephaly, or any birth defect. That's record time in science history, be able to go from the cause to a drug in two years. We did it in two years. That's quite amazing. But here's another topic. And perhaps we are entering a more controversial topic. One thing is to use this brain organoids to see defects in structural regions of the brain, for example, in the cortex. The other thing is to ask can these brain organoids think? And so we didn't know if this was a possibility. So nobody has ever tried. And it was during one discussion in our lab meeting that we thought, well, maybe we should try. We should test. So we place these brain organoids in places that are similar to this one here on the left. And on the bottom of those dishes you have electrodes. These are electrodes that captures the signal as the neurons fire. And you generate activity maps such as that one on the right. So show all the time when you see these lights blinking is because there're activities passing through through those electrodes. And when we did that, we noticed that not only they were active, but as we age them, they are becoming more and more active. So just to give you a perspective of what we did. If I just plot something like that. So these are the amount of brain activity. And those red dots are just some of the work that was doing previously using other technology. And you see that everything is kind of below five hertz, or around five hertz. And what we want to have is a brain activity something similar to a primate brain, like 20 hertz. The human brain is about 22 hertz. So none of the technology we had before could pass this five hertz. But with the brain organoids we can keep them alive for a longer periods of time and the original protocol to generate these brain organoids was also not very active. So that's why nobody was expecting to see any activity on these organoids. And if you see the date, this is 2017. So I'll tell you now the version 2.0 of this protocol, in this curve you can see the weekly measurement of this activity over time. And by 40 weeks or nine month, what we get is something similar to a primate brain in terms of activity. This is unprecedented tissue culture, in vitro, nobody could ever reproduce a brain activity that's similar to the human brain. And if we have that much activity, you can measure something like brainwaves. Some people might recognize an EEG. You can see all these waves doing EEG. And turn out that we can see those waves from these mini-brains as well. We reported in December last year during the neuroscience meeting here in San Diego. We measure or we compare that with fetal brain. And we use preterm EEG brains to do this comparison. So here is how it works. We generate a machine learning algorithm where we predicted what's the age of the brain based on the EEG parameters coming from postnatal preterm babies born between 25 and 38 weeks. And after we train the machine, we ask, we ask the machine to determine the age of our brain organoids. And the results, it's quite striking. So the red bar is the perfect prediction by the machine. And what we see that after 25 weeks, the prediction is really good. Before 25 weeks, the prediction is really bad. And the reason why the prediction is bad is because we could never train the machine with a brain that is before 25 weeks, because the human brain does not survive. We could never get an EEG before 25 weeks. So if a baby's born, we have 25, 24 weeks will likely die. So medical doctors are pushing the boundaries. Now there are even some centers around the U.S. that can keep the baby alive for that, in that early stages. But we don't know the consequences of doing that. But anyways we couldn't train the machine. This is just one example when we train the machine we can see that by 40 weeks, it matches something that's similar to a nine month, healthy, postnatal newborn human brain. So quite impressive, that the technology is matching exactly how human development is doing. So what are the other applications for that? One thing is we could use these brain organoids to study human brain evolution for example. And this is one of the projects in the lab. Sometimes people get confused why he's doing that. I'll see if I can convince you. In the past we are not the only humans that were alive. But there were many humans alive and these are some of the fossil records that we have. The ones that we have the most information are the Neanderthals. They have overlap with us we even have evidence that they breed with us. And we all have pieces of Neanderthal genomes in our cells. So why the Neanderthals are interesting? Because they have been living on Earth for longer periods than Earth. And their technology has not evolved as much. So fossil records at early stages and fossil records at the late stages are quite similar. Someone might argue that well, I mean, they improve the technology. But that's it. That's steel, and stone tool. We humans, I don't think I need to remember you, but we start with stone tools and now we put the men on the Moon. We have Facebook, we communicate, we're talking in this room. So these are all consequences of the brain evolution. How come our brain is so much sophisticated compared to other of those, our ancestrals? This is one of the things that we are doing. We can genetically manipulate these cells to carry Neanderthal genetic variants and produce organoids from these cell lines. Just to give you an example, some of the experiments we did actually we can see differences between them. And even at the functional level if we measure them using that technology that I told you on the multi electrode rays we can see that the cell that has or that carry the ancestral genes, they behave in a very similar way as they do with autism, for example. So finally, we have been looking ways to mature these organoids. The truth is in that curve that I show you after nine month we see a plateau. And when they reach that plateau, we don't see any more maturation of these organoids. So we ask, can we actually mature even further, these organoids, even though they are not vascularized for example. So that is the concept of a brain in a VAT. Brain that is just floating around. Can we stimulate with experience? And perhaps this brain will think that it has a body and actually behave as a normal brain. So there are several ways of doing that. I'll give like two flavors. One is to stimulate this brain using a mini retina. The stem cells can also be used to create a mini eye. And what you have here is the green is the mini retina that was plugged into the human cortex. So now we can stimulate the retina and see how the cortex respond. So we are creating a visual cortex. So that's one way to stimulate. The other way is to give a body to these brain organoids. And I've been discussing about a robotic body. And this is one of the projects in the lab that has help from a high school student here in La Jolla. So he was the one who actually build that robot. And what you're gonna see here, it is the robot that is walking. And it's moving their legs based on the brain activity that's coming from these organoids on the top left. And below here is the computer telling the robot what to do. And you see as the organoid pick on activity it accelerate or speed up its leg. I'm not sure you can see from here. But there are actually two eyes on the organoids. These are sensors. They are sensing if there is an obstacle coming close to you and as they get close to a wall or something, these eyes are telling the robot that I'm getting closer to something. And the idea now is to use as a learning mechanism where we're going to stimulate these organoids using different neuro-transmitters, for example, dopamine, to give them some kind of reward. So they can stop and walk back. So in the future we hope to remove the computer from the equation and make the organoid learn by itself. How to explore the environment. So this is one way of doing. And I'll just finish here with one last thing. It is this technology, we are not fully aware of the potential and where this goes. We keep looking of potential applications for that. But one thing that I'd like to finish is that we're different from the body. We're not restricted by a skull. We're not restricted by other tissues. We can create brains that never exist. And we could even speed up human evolution. We could manipulate genes to create the brain that it is more intelligent, that is more resistant to Alzheimer's, that is more empathic or has a different shape, or we could connect different brains from different people and create a network. So these are all the possibilities that we'll be exploring in the future. I'll stop here so we can open for discussion. But first I'll thank my lab, my collaborators, all the families and subjects that participate on this research. And just for disclosure, I am a co-founder of TISMOO. It's a biotech, a start-up company that uses these brain organoids to screen drugs for autism. Thank you very much. (audience applauds) - So while we're collecting some of your thoughts which we will get back to in a moment. I have a few questions for Alysson. One of the things I often ask our speakers at the beginning is something about how they got started. And you already told us a bit about that. Part of your interest acutely is in your own son. And as I just told Alysson before he hit the presentation when I was planning my remarks, I knew that he worked on autism and I knew I used to work on epilepsy. So I mentioned autism and epilepsy as the two examples, not knowing anything about his son. So we had a little bit of an overlap there. But it does raise an ethical question. So there are lots of questions about what it means when a scientist does research on himself or herself and raises still more difficult questions when they choose to do that with their children. Now recognizing that this will be videotaped and recorded and left on the web forever, so your son will someday see this. (audience laughing) Can you talk to us about what you had to do to consider having your son in the studies? Your personal reflections. What an IRB expected of you? How did you deal with that? - Well I think I place my son as a representative of a group, right? I mean he has a specific genetic defect, a mutation in a gene. And there are other kids with that mutation and that gene. And we were studying that hoping to bring better treatments and potential cure for those who are affected with that genetic alteration. So in the lab obviously I have a dual role. I'm a father excited about this technology, and I'm also scientist. And I often get this question from the parents, from the other children. Said well how do you do it. I said well let's put this way. I wouldn't test on my son if I didn't know that if something is really helpful. So we're extra critical on the experiments. And I will not cut corners. And if I can't do it with my son, I will not ask your son to do it. And most of the time they're comfortable with that. They feel even better because said well, these guys're being like putting the threshold really high. That's how I feel. There was a couple of people working in my lab with cells from my son. He was recruited like any other family. And it's interesting. I think the most rewarding aspect, it is to have this subject right there so when I go home, I see this subject. And I try to make correlations. What I see it and how this would affect the research. And it has an impact on research because in the beginning when we started, he didn't have seizures. He had autism but the seizure appears later. So now we are looking into his brain organoids. Do we see a seizure response from his brain organoids? Can we use his brain organoids to create a platform to test seizure medications. So it's evolving together. I know a couple of scientists who are in the same position as I am. And I think we are all comfortable in doing that because we know that it's not only for one kid. It is for a group of them. And if we help one, we're gonna help many. - Okay, so we may later have some questions from the audience about that further. There is a general question that is important here because you talked about some very controversial things. One might do with these neural networks in the laboratory. And what I'm thinking of is there's the recent reports of a scientist in China who decided to genetically modify or at least reportedly, genetically modified embryos for children and planted them in a mother's womb. And they were born subsequently. And most of the scientific community is very opposed to doing that. But it does raise a question of who is responsible when science is misused. I mean some people in this room may think there're some things that you talked about today that they certainly don't want to see done now, and they might never want to see done. So who's responsible? Who sets the boundaries? Is it just you? How can those boundaries properly be set? - I recently have this discussion with my team and others at UCSD. So what if someone teaches one of these brain organoids to drive a drone and bomb another place? What is the misuse of this technology? And there's plenty of examples of misuse of this technology. So what we do, and this is our responsibility as a scientist, we disclose it to the university that we have a new invention. So now I disclose that I have a brain organoid able to create these oscillation waves. And this was never done before and there are consequences. So the university try to protect that right by patenting it or having their rights to negotiate the use of technology whatever the university thinks is appropriated. So it's not on my hands but kind of goes to the university. And being UCSD and a public university with lots of people that I trust, I think it is in good hands. But what if someone in China or whatever other place that may not follow the same rules that we have, decided to do it anyways? And that's what happens with the CRISPR baby. So that we can't control. The only way to control that is by evolving as a society and as a global society by discussing that among different nations and putting a limit on what's the use of this technology. I think the same thing happens with chemical attacks, right? I mean the humanity decided that we shouldn't use this kind of chemical weapons. So does it inhibit someone of using? Yeah, it might, right? But someone might still use it. So, I'm not sure if it was clear. - No you were. And that is one of the problems that people could, scientists could still do this in various places. But I guess there's not just the question of what happens when somebody wants to patent something but if, let's say tomorrow, you felt you had the means to technologically to produce a brain in the lab that was thinking and self-aware and you have it confined in a dish and you're going to study it and stimulate it in various ways and leave it in the dark for weeks while you do something else. What's to stop you from doing that? - There's nothing that stops me from doing that. (laughing) And it might be that the technology will grow to that stage where we have a fully self-aware, conscious brain inside the lab. And then we will have to set up a bar. I mean, how far can I go? Can I keep those things alive? Or maybe I should not even get there. Should not even go there. Not grow them to that stage and eliminating the possibility of them of becoming conscious or self-aware. Right now we have no indication that they are conscious or self-aware. Tomorrow we might have some evidence that they might be conscious or self-aware. Or when we start plugging different pieces. I show you that we can embody them by making them control a robot, or having a retina plugged into the cortex so maybe they will store a memory inside. And if that stores a memory it becomes a person or becomes an individual so these are questions that I don't know the answer yet. - Well that's gonna take a lot of, I mean, right now I'm thinking about the fact that we are very far from what I just described, the scenario. I mean, just to be clear if anybody's worrying that you could do that (audience laughing) and you just said you would be able to do that on your own. I think actually the answer there is it's not quite so simple because you're basing this work on the use of pluripotent stem cells. UC San Diego at least requires you to have that reviewed by a stem cell committee and an institutional review board. And they will ask questions about what are you going to do with this. At that point somebody could say, you're going to do what? (audience laughing) And might ask you to stop. The first question on the pile was actually pretty much what we just described. But who will decide what characteristics can be manipulated in living human brain? And I think your answer was right now it's largely you, but with the review by the committees at the university. - Yeah, there's always like a committee that reviews the proposed experiments. And if there's anything that they feel that's uncomfortable, by the way, this committee is not only made by scientists, but other people as well. So they have different perspectives on a specific experiment. And at the end of the day, they will judge how the science should progress. - So next question is will we create or I think they're saying, would we be able to create people with deficits and intelligence and with disease? This point, it's actually, curiously, we should also qualify the term people. So if you're doing something in the laboratory in a dish, it really is a philosophical question. What point is that a person? But right now let's talk about that brain organoid tissue that you have in a dish. - So remember when I show you the brain activity that mimics the human development up to nine month or a postnatal newborn baby. So the question is, is a newborn baby self-aware and conscious? And sometimes when I ask people I get different answers. Some people think no, they are not self-aware, they're not conscious. But still, we treat them as a person. So is the brain organoid that we just create self-aware and conscious? We have no idea if they are or not. But anyways there is many things that are missing for them to call them a person. And I think and plus, I mean, these are all artificially created. So we kind of design how we want them to behave or what parts we should have. So these are all things that it could evolve to something that would become a little bit more mature. But as you pointed out, right now I think we are quite far from that because science is making like this small progress at the time. And there is no way that we're gonna have the technology to recreate the entire brain in a dish like the picture I show you. It will be impossible to do it right now with technology that we have. So the question, the hypothetic question is what about in the future if we can do that? So I don't know (laughs) - Okay, so there's a very good technical question. How long can you keep these cells alive in a dish? I mean obviously? - Yeah so we've been trying to push them as much as we can. And they so far have been living inside the incubators of the lab for a little bit more than two years. But what we see is that after nine month, the activity doesn't change. So it's not that they're maturing, is not that we are gaining anything by keeping them alive. Inside the organoid we start to see necrosis because as I pointed out, the factors are not getting inside these organoid so they're not growing more. So they're just stuck. We have the technology to feed the cells inside. I mean one can imagine like a small tube or a vascular system that goes there and keep them alive a little bit longer. Maybe you can grow them a little bit bigger but that's it. Yeah, a couple of month, years. But right now we don't see an advantage of keeping them more than nine month. - Yes so there's a geometry question or a topology question which is, I mean, clearly you can't make a large mass because of the vascularization type of an issue but you could in theory have a long, thin strand of cells so have you tried to see how long you can stretch this out? Or is that? - That's a fascinating question. And we always think about that. We haven't done those experiments. These are totally possible to do it. To create different shapes of these brains and maybe there is one shape that would be better, more efficient on capturing the nutrients or the energy that we have in there. So we haven't tried but it's totally possible. We could fold matrices for these cells to aggregate in the way we want. We can even bio-print them in the shape and form that we want and see how they evolved. These are all possibilities that we hope to explore in the future. - It just occurred to me that you could in theory have such a shape that like DNA folds on itself, could be entirely bathed in your medium with lots of gaps in between but lots of also points of connection between the points as it wraps around. So (both laughing) It's amazing the things you could do with this. I'm not sure I entirely understand this question but I'm asking it anyway just to see what you have to say. So it says what if you were mistaken about the cure for Zika virus. What then? I don't know whether this is a before, in other words you tried it and it didn't work in the laboratory. Or after, you know you thought it works, you've based on laboratory experiments then people started using it and it didn't work. So... - We haven't done the test itself. We haven't tried in people because there was no further outbreak of the Zika virus. So we have to wait for this to happen. Hopefully it will not happen. But yeah, I mean as I said the organoids are a model. They're missing lots of components so the drug might work really well in the lab and once you move to a clinical trial or in people it might not work. Because the body might metabolize that drug in a different way. So we see that happening all the time. So when that happens, you go back to the board and design a drug that can be metabolized in the right way. Or test a new drug. That was one of the candidate drugs so we have others that seems to work as well. So that's how science evolved. You have to try and most of the time you don't even know, you don't know if it's gonna work unless you do the clinical trial. - Great, thanks. So next question I think can actually turn around two ways. The question is what happens if robots can think like humans? But I would almost turn it around to say that what you're talking about doing, in the example you've described here where you had your brain cells controlling a mechanical movement of a, essentially a robot, or a machine. In some sense is what you are doing is you are getting human cells to act like a computer, like a robot. So it's the other way around. But do you have any, want to reflect on that a bit? The difference between cells in a dish and transistors and diodes and - Yeah, so this is another question that I get all the time, is this organic intelligence any better than artificial intelligence. And we know that a five-year-old brain, someone with a five-year-old brain could beat any artificial intelligence. So in theory if you can grow these networks to the level of a five-year-old brain, human brain, we could beat any artificial intelligence. So I think it's more powerful. This is because evolution has been shaping the networks and optimizing the networks for millions and millions of years. And we are just playing with neural networks using the same algorithms that we think it works. So it's good for driving a car but if you want something more complex, I don't think you can achieve. So that's another possibility. Can we use these brain organoids as a computational power to solve more complex questions and I think we could. - Yeah, so at this point I did notice that in terms of the questions and on your cards I didn't really see anything and maybe that I just didn't get it of anybody expressing any fears about the technology per se. Would anybody like to come to the microphone and tell us what worries you at this point? Anybody have any so if you could come to the mic? - So one of my fears is how do you, the brain as you just mentioned it can far outstrip any artificial intelligence that we have and there's already many, many fears about what artificial intelligence could do. How do you protect against the abuse of this incredible system of neural cells that we have and keep that system from being abused because if it's that powerful, it's that much more prone to abuse and create something that our regular brains will not be able to control. - Yeah I know. That's what I fear as well which is the misuse of the technology. But this is true for any technology right? How do you control, how do you make sure that's using for good and not bad and who defines what's good and what's bad. So I think, I don't have all these answers. - Just to elaborate on that a little bit more. I mean you'd said you're somewhat confined now because you're associated with a public university and you have ethics committee et cetera. But if your business becomes a boom you may not find the necessity to get the ethics. And one of the things that Michael mentioned about these organoids. If they became self-aware, would we have a different criteria for the ethical considerations? And we forget perhaps that we do laboratory at least on a global scale, we do laboratory, what I call cruel experiments on animals that are undeniably self-aware, right now. So it's scary that when we talk about Neanderthals and human evolution that we are advancing at a more rapid state with the technology than we are advancing in the ethical considerations. Would you comment on that? - Absolutely. And I think you're right on the point. And one of my hopes is that these kinds of technology will eventually replace the use of animals for science. I mean it's a new model. Right now we can't do that because there's still like toxicology experiments that need to run in animals. But hopefully these will go away and we can use this kind of artificial models. But you are absolutely right. There are evidence that even like small rodents like mice are self-aware and have some level of consciousness. What I think it bothers people is that when you talk about consciousness, is not yes or no, but is, it is a spectrum. And human consciousness is what bothers people. And I don't know why because I agree with you I love animals and I think they do have the same kind of consciousness, not if not even better than us. But yeah I don't think is the majority of the population that thinks that way. I might be wrong. - Yes but we can't forget that if that is a worry, then for some of the things one might want to study in a dish as the technology develops you would be producing an entity in that dish created by yourself. Something that would be as self-aware as a mouse or a rat might be. So at this point I'm guessing you have no means to test whether you've crossed a line to be able to decide that. - Yeah so this is one of the experiments that we keep thinking about. How would you prove that our brain organoids is conscious or self-aware? How would you show that? We cannot even define that. But is there any indication that you could do it? There are some experiments that might point to a specific evidence. For example when people go under anesthesia, they change their brainwaves and they seem that they are not conscious on what's going on, at least most people seems like they don't remember what happens. So what if we treat these organoids with anesthetics and they change their brainwaves in the same way that humans do. Does it mean that they had conscious and now they don't have it? So these are the evidence that we can build it up and to answer those questions. But right now I mean again, it's just very speculative. These are cells in a dish. - So one challenge to that is a kind of question I used to ask our students in a physiology course years ago, and that is, how would you know whether somebody's brain was functioning and conscious, if either A, they had no means to have an impact on the world, or B, they had no means to take in information about the world. In order to answer that question it seems to be ultimately you have to have input and output. And if you're doing that by the time you get to that point, it seems like it's too late to be asking that question. So anyway. (audience laughing) Another question, yeah. - I have actually have a more science-based question and then a more ethical question. So the first was just curious if you considered anything as far as putting the organoids like in vivo and mice and things like that and kind of seeing you know, talking about the vascularization and stuff like that because you can have the humanized mice and stuff to avoid some of the issues you would have with their immune system. Have you done anything with that or thought about that? - There are people who have done that. And they see that sometimes the vascularization system of the animal can help to vascularize the brain organoids. The problem is they are inside the animal and because now they have vascularization, they will grow bigger. And there is so much that an animal can support. So most of the time they have to stop the experiments otherwise they'll kill the animal. So this is what's called chimera when you're mixing cells from two species. Most of the time we try to get away from that animal model. We wanna do everything in vitro. Again because we don't wannna be confounding factors of blood from a mouse to get inside the human brain. I mean some experiments are done as a proof of principle that you can vascularize, you can innervate. But at the end of the day, they are not practical. You cannot do hundreds and thousands of those to test drugs. So we favor most of the time, the in vitro system. - I just didn't know from a discovery standpoint what you might be able to learn from that? - Yeah. - And then the more ethical, it's actually less about how the science affects the ethics, and more about how I guess how society could affect the science. I guess maybe by being here this is part of your way to try and handle the sensationalized media. So some of the stuff you're saying up there could be really scary to people. They don't know very much about it. And so what are the ways that you can or what can we do to make sure concerns are handled but at the same time don't limit our ability to continue on with the science? - I know that's a great question. It's all about education and education not only for the lay public but also for the scientists 'cause most scientists are even afraid of, about this conversation, right? I mean they don't want to show up. They don't want to expose themselves. So the scientists have to change the way to interact with society. As we grow in more sophisticated experiments, it gets harder to explain. And it gets harder for people to understand. I mean we've seen that with, for example, the Dolly the clone, right? I think it got people by surprise. Oh (audience laughing) they clone an animal. What about if they clone a human? How this was done? I mean people had no idea. And so the society was not prepared. So I think what Mike and I and others we are aware that there are new technologies coming. And the more we can share with society, the more we can discuss. Personally what happens in my field is that as we start publishing on that and the media was picking up, the reporters were calling me and say, oh those organoids are they thinking? And I would immediately say, no. Now I'd be more cautious because I don't know (audience laughing) that's the truth (laughing). And until we have good experimental design to prove either yes or no, the answer is I don't know. But I think that's being honest from my end. More honest than in the past. - So I mean one of the things that I think we should leave you with tonight at least I would want to leave you with and I don't know about Alysson is that much of what he talked about as things that might be interesting, that might be possible are not already happening. Much of this, most of it, is hypothesis-driven about where we might go and what we might do. And I think part of the reason that he's here tonight is to have people start to think about this. So as a society we can figure out ahead of time what worries us and how we might best deal with it. So you should not just go home and close off the conversation. Talk to your friends. Talk to your family. Talk to your legislators if needed. Talk to scientists, asking them to have meetings to talk about how they should do this. So I want to thank the audience and Alysson for an interesting program. - Thank you. (audience applauds) (upbeat music) 