  - Welcome back, everyone, from lunch. I will introduce the first session in the afternoon, which is case studies, engineering, and disability rights. And for this session, Pilar Ossorio, who is a professor of law and Bioethics at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and bioethics scholar in residence at the Bioethics Program, lead at the Morgridge Institute for Research. She's also the co-director of the program on neuroscience and law at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and directs the University of Wisconsin's ethics and consultation service. Again, these bios are pretty dense because that's how illustrious our speakers are. Pilar will moderate this session, and in this session, we have the pleasure of having Matthew Porteus. But we also have Rosemarie Garland-Thomson, who is coming to us from the University of Pittsburgh through- oh, there she is. Hi. The wonders of technology. So with that, and since technology is actually working today, I will have Pilar come to the podium and start the session. - So first, I would like to thank the organizers for this wonderful event, and for inviting me to be part of it. So this morning we heard that CRISPR-Cas technology has been adopted very rapidly, at least in the research community. It's used in plants, animals, and humans. It's being modified by researchers around the world to be used for many specialized applications. And I was happy to hear, actually this morning, that there was discussion of international governance, and how do we make that happen. And so I think we also heard that ethical, legal, and social issues are being raised, and perhaps with new urgency because the scientific and science policy community view many types of interventions on humans as now becoming feasible in the near future when, perhaps, before they were more theoretical. So CRISPR-Cas gene editing makes it relatively-- and I say relatively easy, cheap, and fast to make better targeted genetic modifications than we've been able to do in the past. So they're better targeted, but of course, one of the ethical and regulatory issues that we're still grappling with in using this technology as a therapy in humans is dealing with off target effects. How to minimize those, how to identify them, and minimize them if you're going to actually use the technology as a therapy in humans. Setting that aside, I think it's just important to recognize how rapidly this has become a very widespread technology, particularly in the research community. But even-- there's a lot of public imagination about this technology. There are people who have purported to engage in do-it-yourself gene editing, who have engaged in attempts to bio-hack themselves with gene editing materials, let's say. Whether they effectively gene edited anything is a whole other question. I have no idea. But today, we're primarily talking about gene editing of humans, right? I think there was a previous event that talked about, maybe, gene editing in crops and so forth. Today we're talking about humans. And as Doctor Royal noted earlier this morning, gene editing in humans raises numerous ethical and social and legal issues, some of which have been addressed in the past. They're not all new. And in particular, during the 1990s gene therapy era, or what I like to call gene transfer era, which was really my introduction to bioethics as a baby bioethicist. During that time, a lot of issues were raised. A lot of issues were deeply analyzed. We still have many issues that have not been fully or adequately analyzed. And of course, there are certain things that capture the imagination, but there are many-- it's important to understand, I think, that there are many ethical and regulatory ways of addressing gene editing, especially somatic cell gene editing in humans. It's not like we have to recreate the wheel. It's not like we have nothing in terms of ethics and regulation. So a lot of it is not particularly sexy. For instance, we have ethical and regulatory frameworks for when it is acceptable to do first-in-human trials of new technologies. Dr. Kimmelman, who spoke this morning, has really pioneered some of the ethics work regarding first-in-human trials. We already have those frameworks. We need to think deeply about how to apply them, the details about applying them to somatic cell gene editing. But we have the ethical frameworks there, we have the regulatory frameworks there. When we start talking-- so thinking about gene editing, we've heard the terms this morning, somatic cell gene editing and germline gene editing. So just to refresh people's memory, somatic cell gene editing is done with the intention of modifying only the particular individual who is being edited, and not to have that genetic event pass down to future generations. Germline editing is done with the intention of modifying an oocyte, sperm, or early embryo with the intention that the modification would be passed down through a lineage to future generations, right? So we think about germline editing, I think it raises some issues that have been discussed and analyzed, especially in the 1990s. But we haven't really had to grapple with those issues that much because making intentional genetic modifications to future generations was not really feasible until, perhaps, now or in the near future. So what are some of those issues, right? Well, we think about how do we balance risks to people in the near future, the next generation, versus risk to people in the far future? Do we need to do some balancing of that sort? What do we owe to people who don't actually exist? Do we have obligations to them? How can we have obligations to them, especially if what we do might change who is born, right? That's a logical problem. How will changing who exists in the future change the nature of society? Those are very large social questions, and we haven't really had to address them in any serious way before. And whether we're talking about somatic or heritable gene editing, we have some questions like to what extent do we expect, or should we expect, that people conform to pretty narrow institutionally defined norms of behaviors and abilities. Rather, as an alternative, should we expect that our-- and even demand that our institutions and norms conform to a wider range of variation among humans? Would gene editing be used to narrow the range of variation or to expand the range of variation, and in what ways, right? Because just as we might use gene editing to narrow the range of variation with respect to certain single nucleotide polymorphisms that lead to disease, people might potentially use it to expand human variation in other ways. So what should we demand of society and our institutions in terms of conforming to the range of human variation? How does that change if we're intentionally creating that variation or limiting that variation? And I think that discussion this morning highlighted the fact that gene editing comes into a social context in which people all over the world are doing this. It is unlike the 1990s when gene transfer was a technology that not too many people in not too many countries really could, realistically, undertake. But now, gene editing is something that people all over the world are already doing. So we have different national imaginations and priorities, we have different cultural concerns and considerations about what kinds of human variation we value or don't value. So this really does raise a lot of issues about negotiating governance across national boundaries. Because it's pretty clear, for instance, from what we heard this morning that what happens in China can have an effect on how people in the United States understand the technology and its risks and benefits, might affect how funding for gene editing goes, or the receptivity of the public for gene editing. So these are things that, as we heard this morning, a lot of people are actually working on. And I've been involved in a little bit of that work. But I think that's a discussion that we can continue on, maybe, in this panel and into our afternoon panel. So today, we have two speakers for this panel. As we heard, Dr. Matthew Porteus, who is a professor at Stanford University. He's in the Department of Pediatrics and the Institute for Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, and also in the Maternal and Child Research Institute at Stanford. And he was a member of the National Academy of Science Engineering and Medicine Committee that studied issues related to governance of gene editing, and put out a report that has been referenced by several people this morning, including Doctor Bonham. And so he's going to be talking today about the current technical limitations on doing germline editing. So this morning, I think even though most of the panelists were talking about germline-- or I mean, talking about somatic editing, still there was a lot of, I think, conversation-- there were a lot of questions about germline. So Dr. Porteus is going to talk about germline, and then I'm also just going to say a little bit more about Rosemarie at this moment, too. So as you heard, she's our second speaker. She will be coming to us from remotely. And she's actually a professor of English and Bioethics at Emory University where she teaches and works in disability studies and in particular on questions of justice related to disability. She also teaches American Literature and Culture, bioethics, and she works and teaches in feminist theory. And she's going to speak on the core topic of this session, which has to do with disability rights. And I think, this morning, we heard some questions around justice and access to the technology. You might this afternoon hear, perhaps, a different vision of-- a different conception of justice relating to disabilities. Thanks. [APPLAUSE] - Thank you, Pilar, for that introduction. Thank you to the organizers for putting this really outstanding day together. Thank you to my prior speakers this morning who did a lot of the legwork setting up what we're going to talk about this afternoon. And finally, thank you all for being here. It's clear that this is an audience that's engaged and is asking immediately, I think, insightful and incisive questions that we're all grappling with. So what I'm going to try to do over the next 20 minutes is use somatic cell editing, and our advances in somatic cell editing, to treat diseases like sickle cell disease as a way of highlighting the challenges we're going to have to do germline inheritable editing. And I'm going to, actually, start with the criteria that the committee that Pilar just mentioned that I was on, in terms of what might be required before one would proceed to germline or heritable editing. I realize I left heritable out of my title because I think heritable is the key feature here, not so much germline. So as was mentioned, while many of the issues that we're all very interested in and want to grapple with have been around for 20, 30, or 40 years or more. The reality is is the CRISPR-Cas9 system gave a level of precision to modifying the genome that was unprecedented, and was highly active as was discussed before, and raised the possibility that once what was considered infeasible was now feasible. And in fact, the quick application of the Cas9 system, and again, I think it's better called Cas9 because that's the scissors. We don't actually use a clustered regular intersperse palindromic repeats in anything we do. But CRISPR is such a cool name that we all use that. But it's really Cas9, that's our enzyme. Quickly was applied to make genetically modified organisms. And again, it was highlighted today how many organisms within a couple years of the discovery the technology was raised, including a publication showing that modifications of human tripronuclear zygotes was possible. Although those publications actually highlighted the limits to it. So out of this came a call to have the National Academies put together a study committee along with the Royal Society. And I think for the first time, and Pilar will probably correct me, was the first time a formal committee actually said there might be a path forward for heritable or germline entity. I think prior was really considered off-limits because of the lack of specificity. And listed here are number are all the criteria that we developed, and the report is available online. Now, I'm not going to read through all of these because they're available. Now, just before-- but I am going to split them into two different categories. I just want to point out that this was a relatively large committee for the National Academies. They tell me they usually like to have committees about half this size. But given the need to have stakeholders from a wide range of countries, and you can read here-- actually, it's not listed their countries, but they came, I think, from all the continents that people live on other than Antarctic. And a wide range of fields, including lawyers and bioethicists and scientists and human geneticists. And out of this, I think, pretty good committee-- it's obviously not a perfect committee-- came these criteria. And the key social and governance criteria, I best that's paraphrase as no secrecy. That whatever goes on, if you're going to do this, you should be transparent about it, you should be public about it, you should disclose it, and you should engage the public about what you want to do. And I don't want to minimize these because they're really important, but I'm a scientist, so I'm going to focus now a little bit more on the technical criteria. And there were several different technical criteria, some of which have been touched upon earlier today. The first was is that there would be no reason to do heritable germline editing if one could have a genetically related child through other methods. Healthy, genetically related child through other methods. And those other methods could include in vitro fertilization, with a pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. Or it might, actually, mean if we develop real good somatic cell therapy, there would be no need to then to use this method, and there would be, then, no reason to cross that rubicon. I, personally, believe that using editing to increase the number of potentially implantable embryos is not a compelling rationale to cross this rubicon. I also think, technically, it's not likely to increase the frequency because you're putting embryos through a manipulation, and thereby increasing the chance they'll be inviable. I think it's possible-- so in the United Kingdom under the National Health Service, IVF with PGD is available and paid for couples that are at risk of having children with genetic diseases as long as you meet the list that they've pre-approved. And I think that has interesting regulatory consequences, and it prevents suffering because you're not bringing children into the world with genetic diseases. And as I wrote on the slide, it has a side effect of being economically cost effective. The second technical criteria is it should be restricted to serious diseases or conditions, and to genes with clearly proven causality. And the extension of that was that the committee said, you should only be able to take a variant and change it back to a nucleotide sequence that is present and common and healthy in the human population. And so what that means is that you can take pathologic sequences and revert them to normal sequences, but what it also means is you don't take healthy sequences, or even pathologic sequences, and introduce new sequences that has never been in the human genome before. And I would actually argue even shouldn't be people-- and here's where Karen and I had a little discussion at lunch-- is if you can find a few patients in the world with a certain variant, does that truly mean that that variant is healthy? Or do I believe that the gene is there for a reason, and there's probably a healthy function that it's there for, and we can have a discussion about that. So with that as a background about, OK, if we believe in these criteria, we have to figure out a way of reverting simply to a normal sequence. What is the challenge in doing that? And the challenges can be listed-- or some of the challenges can be listed here. We need to make sure that the process is specific. We need to make sure that we don't create a chimeric embryo or human. We want to figure out how to generate only those common and healthy sequences. And I want to propose, actually, that zygote editing may not be the solution to these problems. But instead, what we may end up seeing if this ever does become widespread, is editing will occur at a stem cell stage or at [INAUDIBLE] pluripotent stage, and you will the generate sperm or eggs that will then create a human by standard IVF. So let me first rule out this pathway. So the standard way of doing genome editing is to design a nuclease that makes a break. We discussed that the Cas9 system has really democratized and revolutionized the field because of its ease of use and because of this activity. And when you make a break it, can be repaired by the cell in a mutagenic fashion, creating genes that are now inactivated. And again, we heard some discussion this morning about how that might be used in somatic cells. But almost by definition, those new indels are sequences that have never been seen in the human population. They may mimic mutations that have been seen in the human population, but they are not identical to the sequences that are seen in human populations. So to think about doing this in the germline then, we really need to harness the other pathway that one might use genome editing, which is the homologous recombination pathway or homology directed repair pathway. And in this pathway, you initiate the process exactly the same way, with an engineer nuclease that makes a break in the target site you want to modify. And then, you provide a donor DNA that serves to repair that break, and you can introduce exactly this sequence changes that you want to make. So you have both spatial and nucleotide precision. Now, before I go into how this has been developed, it was again mentioned earlier today that there are now a number of different genome editing systems that are not based on making a double stranded break. And it's possible in the future that as these systems get more and more developed, they will actually solve some of the problems that I'm going to say that currently exists in nuclease based systems. So I'm going to focus on the system that we have found to be most active in an ex vivo setting, and that's to purify our cell of interest, to deliver the Cas9 guide RNA, the GPS, as a protein RNA complex. And then, follow that by delivering the donor vector on a virus. And I won't go into a lot of the reasons, but what we found is using this system we can introduce the genome editing machinery in a way that doesn't perturb the cellular function significantly. We're applying that to sickle cell disease. As Vence Bonham mentioned earlier today, this is a disease caused by a single nucleotide variant in the betaglobin gene leading to a single amino acid change in a protein, causing red blood cells to sickle, but leading to a multi systemic disease. And the median lifespan, as was mentioned earlier earlier, has not changed in the United States over the last three decades. But the median lifespan for patients in Africa, where we estimate there may be 200,000 births per year, is in the first decade of life. So using the RNP/AAV6 system, where now in the blood stem cells from sickle cell disease patients were able to correct the mutation in up to 60% to 70% of the alleles. So frequency far above what is thought to be therapeutically necessary of about 15%. So we are now trying to take this system and move it from the laboratory into the clinic. And if in the Q&A you're interested in our challenges in that, I can say we can talk about it more. But maybe I can quickly summarize that that process probably cost $10 million to do in a lean academic environment, and would cost even more if you were doing it in a biotech or pharmaceutical. Now, even though we're able to correct a large number of the genes, in the process of correcting some of these genes we break the other allele. And let me just go back. To achieve this level of correction, we correct the underlying mutation, but we also introduced silent changes to facilitate that high correction frequency. And so what I'll point out is those silent changes are not present in the human population, and therefore, would not be permissible under what the criteria I just said. Moreover, 70% of the cells have at least one allele with a non-homologous end joining sequence. And so again, that's not a sequence we'd want to introduce in the germline. And what's shown in the data here is within the population of cells. It's highly chimeric. So some cells have both alleles modified, some cells have one allele modified, some cells have two alleles modified by insertions and deletions. So this issue of chimerism is really important. So what about specificity? So one way of thinking about specificity is that you're more likely to get a highly specific reaction if you don't have the nuclease around for a long time. So having it come in, do its job, and go away is one way of increasing specificity. And that has been shown by a number of different labs. But the example I like to use was from Andy May's group in which he showed that a guide RNA that was targeting a gene involved in a hereditary bone marrow failure, a rare hereditary bone marrow failure syndrome, looked very non-specific in a test tube. But when we use the RNP system that I just described to you, it was completely specific. There were detectable off-target indels. But people want to get even better. And so then, the second strategy beyond just using an RNP was to improve the biochemical properties of the Cas9 protein. And we got to collaborate with a company, and we were able to show that this high fidelity Cas9 improved the specificity of our process by over 10-fold. So we reduced our off-target indels so that they only occurred at one site in the genome, and at a frequency of about 1% or less. I'll put into context that our genome is not sacrosanct. It does not stay stable, and that everyone's genome in this room is different. And I will say, thankfully, diversity is strength, and diversity gives us robustness. But moreover, our genome-- every single cell in our body has a different genome than its neighboring cell because there is ongoing mutations that occur in every cell, every day. Some of us fly on airplanes, and we probably shouldn't do that if we want to not all drowned. But that just exposure to the ionizing radiation is creating a burden of mutations. And so I'll argue that I think that high fidelity ex vivo RNP based genome editing is safer than bacon, meaning that we expose ourselves to mutations all the time. And that if you calculate how specific our RNP is compared to what we do, it's actually much more specific than what we do standardly. Now, how efficient is this RNP/AAV6 system in zygotes? So it's, of course, has not been used in human cells or published in human cells. I think it is being tested. But in mouse cells, it's a highly efficient system in terms of creating targeted mutations, but it still results in chimerism. So what you end up with is a mouse that has-- a fraction of the animal has the changes you want, but another fraction of the animal has changes that you don't want. And so again, this is not efficient enough as it stands to think about applying it to the human population. So what I mentioned earlier, I don't think, actually, zygote editing is the way that this is ever going to really work. And the reason I believe that is if you-- the way you're going to do zygote editing is you'll inject either at the one cell or two cell stage, you'll let that cell grow into a blastocyst, you'll pluck one or two cells, you'll analyze the genome of those one or two cells, but we know that those one or two cells don't predict what's going on in the six or seven cells that you leave behind. And I just can't get my head around how you would solve this technical challenge. But I think you can get around this technical challenge by thinking about modifying a stem cell , which you could then purify to whole genome sequencing to assure that you've got only what you want, and then derive your sperm and eggs from those primordial stem cells. So for the sperm, you could think about modifying spermatogonial stem cells. For egg, you could think about modifying an IPS cell, and then differentiating it into eggs. And I won't show you the data, but the ability to turn IPS cells into true eggs has been done in mice by groups in Japan. And I'm going to show you the data that being able to edit spermatogonial stem cells has also been done in mice. So again, the RNP/AAV6 system works very well in IPS cells. And we can achieve up to 60% bi-allelic gene correction in IPS cells, which means identifying a clone that had both alleles corrected would be a relatively simple process. Now, in terms of editing mouse spermatogonial stem cells, that has been done both with zinc finger nucleases, which we did several years ago, and more recently with the Cas9 system. And again, quite efficiently. So in the last couple minutes I just want to summarize some personal conclusions. And in the last slide I'm going to, actually, throw out-- I won't call it a strawman, a proposal that you guys can shoot down about how this translational path forward might work. So the first is that there are only a very few examples in which heritable or germline editing would be needed to prevent a child from being born with a serious disease. Karen, actually, outlined one such couple. A mom who has both alleles having an autosomal dominant. But this is still a very few number of people. As a pediatrician who takes care of N of one diseases though, I don't think this is a reason not to do it. I think the idea of restricting edits to sequences that are known to be common and healthy protects us from having leakage into applications that don't address disease. There's no reason-- basically, you're just going to do it to make lots of normal people. It also limits our hubris in terms of thinking, well, we're smarter than evolution. I'm going to create this variant in the human population because I think I'm smarter than what human evolution and human genetics has showed us. And I think you could use the UK National Health Care System to generate a list of sequences that you could edit to, and say, this is the permissible list. There, obviously, has to be quantitative public disclosures in international review, and I'll talk about that in the next slide. You want to do it in a non-chimeric way. But I think that some of the technical problems I outlined can be solved between the advances in stem cell biology, germ cell biology, and somatic cell editing. And so I think if we hide behind the technical limitations, we actually aren't forward-thinking about, well, when this is technically feasible, is this something we should do, and how should we do that? And while I have focused on the technical concerns, I do not want to leave you with the impression that I don't think the societal, ethical governance issues are not important. They are probably even more important because the technical issues, as I said, probably can be solved. So here's my-- again, I'm not going to call a straw man proposal because it might be a real proposal. Is I think the translational path forward is that a large, diverse international committee consisting of a lot of different people is convened to regulate germline editing to create pregnancies worldwide, not to regulate germline editing for research or somatic cell editing. This committee would supplement, but not replace, existing regulatory processes and authorities. And I want to also point out, the reason this has to be international is if one country, for example, we have the example in China, we have no restriction on migration across borders. And so if one country does it, it affects actually all of us in the world. The committee might adopt the strict criteria that I outlined that the 2017 study committee proposed. And I, again, like this idea of only editing two sequences that are known to be common and healthy. Now, of course, a committee has no statutory authority, so how is this going to get a statutory authority? It will only come if countries actually pass laws that say it is only legal in our country to perform heritable editing and create a pregnancy if it has been reviewed and approved by this international committee. And the committee would only approve, or not, after a full public disclosures with time for a public comment period the rationale, preclinical data, including efficacy, safety, and chimersim, a review of the consent form, a view of the clinical trial design. And for specific protocols in which the committee did not have the appropriate stakeholders, of course, you would want to bring those stakeholders onto the committee as voting members, but as an ad hoc basis. Finally, I want to say, we should never get to a point where having the children in quote, "normal way" is considered either unethical or frowned upon. And I think one of the dystopian futures that people have discussed is that, well, if we were doing germline editing, it would be expected that we would all do this. And that would be a tragedy in my mind. Barry Coller was on the committee, and I realize I'm one minute over, but to summarize he said, we want healthy babies, not designer babies. And I paraphrase that a little bit to say, we want healthy humans, not designer humans. And so I'll stop there, and pass it over to Rosemarie. Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] - Thank you very much, Matt, and the organizers for the opportunity to participate and contribute to this really important symposium. And I'm particularly appreciative about the opportunity to try to do this using communication technologies, all the time realizing the limits of those technologies. So what I'm going to do here is I have prepared a PowerPoint presentation that I'll be sharing with you as a kind of substitute for my live presence. And I am garrulous, and on top of that I also am offering some fairly counter-intuitive claims and pieces of information. So I will make this PowerPoint available, it's long, to anyone who wants to take a look at it afterward as a record of my contribution here. And I'll be moving through it, maybe jumping around a little bit, which I hope is not too disconcerting, to try to respect the time that we have together, and to generate some important conversations in our conversation period afterward. So most of the conversations and presentations about genetic editing, or genetic engineering, center around, as Matt's really important presentation just did, how these technologies work, and what we ought to be using these technologies for. And perhaps, how we ought to be regulating them. And that's a very important conversation. I'm going to offer something quite different from that here by focusing, instead, more fully on the social, the cultural, and to a certain degree the historical context and the implications of genetic engineering. And so I'm hoping that what I present here will be a complement to what Matt has presented, and the other parts of the conference that took place this morning that I wasn't able to participate in because of my other obligations here in Pittsburgh. So let me begin with my first slide. I want to have us together here in my time, and I'm going to try to work with 20 minutes here, maybe 25 minutes, with asking us to consider a paradox. So this paradox has two elements, as do all paradoxes. So the first part of this paradox is that I want to make the claim that this time now, and place, where we are gathered together is the best time in all of human history for people with disabilities to have a high quality of life. The second part-- if we can go back one slide-- of this paradox that relates to the first claim I'm making here, is that modern liberal societies, and I'll talk more about this, this is why this is the best time for people with disabilities to have the opportunity to have a high quality of life. It's because modern liberal societies aspire to assure justice, equality, and inclusion for all members of the social order. So these two assertions relate to one another. That's the first part of the paradox. The second part of the paradox is the idea-- and I'll return to this paradox more fully-- that modern liberal societies at the very same time are developing medical technologies for eugenics selection in the interest of procreative liberty and population health. So I want us to hold this paradox in our head together when I consider some of the points I'm going to make in the rest of my presentation. So the next slide, thank you, was a repeat of the first part of my paradox, that this is the best time in all of human history for people with disabilities to have the opportunity to flourish and to have a high quality of life. And let me give you some examples. In the next slide, for example, I'm showing a picture of the actor Peter Dinklage, who is a person who lives with one of the conditions that is part of the conversation about heritable genetic engineering that we're having in public and in medical circles and in the kinds of conferences that I'm going to and the kinds of papers that I'm reading and contributing to. And Peter Dinklage has a genetic heritable condition, which we consider to be a genetic disease. And that is he has achondroplasia, which is a heritable genetic condition. So let me take a look at some of the other people that I want to mention who live with these conditions that are part of the conversation about heritable genetic engineering, and that we are considering whether to select for or to select against. OK, next slide. This is a picture of the disability rights advocate, Haben Girma, who is a woman who lives with hereditary congenital deaf blindness. And I'm showing here a picture of her with President Barack Obama in 2015 when they were able to meet in Washington DC for a celebration for the Americans with Disabilities Act. And Haben Girma is the first deaf blind person, if we can imagine this, to graduate from Harvard Law School. Next, I want to show an image of a person who is the first sign language using deaf Rhodes scholar, a person whose name is Rachel Kolb. She's featured here in a very short film, which is terrific if you have an opportunity to take a look at it, called Can You Read My Lips, which is about how she uses communication technologies effectively to attain a high quality of life and be integrated into the social fabric, and be able to operate as the first sign language using deaf Rhodes scholar. The next slide shows a picture of John Kemp, who is the president and CEO of this Viscardi Center. He is born with significant limb reduction, which is understood generally as genetic. In other words, he was born both armless and legless, and uses a configuration of prosthetic technologies and mobility technologies in order to carry out his work in the world to be an attorney and a public figure and the president and CEO of the Viscardi Center. Next slide would be an example of a woman who is a business woman. Her name is Kathy D. Woods. She is a pioneer of disability fashion. She has a company in which she designs and manufacturers clothes for small adults. And I'm showing her a picture of her with her apparel company logo. She is an African-American woman of small stature, or a small woman with a genetic condition that can be identified in utero and genetically increasingly. One more slide to show you to give you an example. This is the comedian Maysoon Zayid. In her 2013 Ted Talk, she is a comedian with a significant congenital disability. It's not entirely clear the genetic nature of her disability, but she advertises herself as one of the first disabled sit down as opposed to stand up comedians because of her mobility impairment. And finally, I wanted to share an image of an older person who has achieved quite a high quality of life. This is perhaps the most well-known philosopher in the world. Jurgen Habermas, a German philosopher born in the late 1930s in Germany who was born with a cleft palate, which is not understood, of course, entirely now is a genetic condition, although we're discovering new genetic diseases, of course, every day. And we're not entirely sure what a variety of genetic conditions are produced by genetically, but Habermas writes in his acceptance speech for The Kyoto Prize, the way that growing up at the time that he grew up with a cleft palate and enduring many corrective surgeries when he was young for the cleft palate that he was born with as a congenital disability, actually shaped his work as a philosopher of public communication, and as a philosopher, and that he would not have done this work in his life had he not had the experience of being born with and living with a cleft palate. So I want to go on to the next part of my assertion here, and that is that modern liberal societies-- this is part of my paradox-- aspire to assure justice, equality, and inclusion for all members of the social order. And I'm going to introduce here a bit of history to talk to you a little bit about the human and civil rights movements that began in 1948 and continue through 2017 and beyond. And this is a bit of a history of the development of bioethics, and its concurrent development of the human and civil rights movements. So next slide please. I'm going to begin with a quote from Hannah Arendt, the philosopher who wrote in Eichmann in Jerusalem: a Report on the Banality of Evil in 1963, that she believed political regimes ought not to determine-- and this is a very famous quote-- who should and who should not inhabit the world. And this concept is the concept that forms a set of covenants, which is what I call them, that is to say declarations, treaties, covenants, laws, policies that constitute the Civil and Human Rights Movement, which I think-- and my history is that it begins in 1948 with-- next slide-- the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And I'm showing here an image of Eleanor Roosevelt holding this Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. And I'm going to quote from that declaration in the next slide. And that is, again, in 1948, and I'm quoting directly, all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. And this summarizes the impulse behind the Civil and Human Rights Movements that swept in the mid 20th century all of liberal social orders. Another quote directly, from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, talks about, very often, the dignity and the worth of the human person. And so this sense of human rights, this sense of human equality and dignity and equal rights inspires the Human and Civil Rights Movement of the mid 20th century. And a part of this, of course, is-- next slide-- the Disability Rights Movement. And I'm showing here an image of the Disability Rights Movement. We have a protest here with a number of wheelchair-using people with disabilities, who are disability rights advocates, who are protesting in the mid 1970s and early 1980s and even in the late 1960s for an accessible built environment and for equal rights and access for people with disabilities. And the banner here that's being held up shows the interrelation of these rights movements by quoting Martin Luther King who says, injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. So the Disability Rights Movement gives us the legislation and the treaties that we have in place in the mid 20th century. And later than mid 20th century, and that is-- next slide-- primarily in the United States the Americans with Disabilities Act, the ADA, of 1990. And again, there's an amended ADA of 2009, which assures that people with disabilities in the United States will have equal access and the means to protest against and take legal action against discrimination, and the legal capacity to request accommodations. So that's what the Americans with Disabilities Act does and aspires to do. And of course, all justice legislation is aspirational. So there is a gap between the aspiration and the realization of the Americans with Disabilities Act. But nonetheless, it is in place to transform this society and to make this time and this place the best time for people with disabilities to flourish, certainly in liberal democracies. Another, of course, one of these implements or treaties-- next slide-- is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities enacted in 2006. The United States has not signed on to this treaty because it has the Americans with Disabilities Act. But many other countries around the world have signed on to this treaty, which is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have it concomitant with the Disability Rights Movement. We also have what I call knowledge development about disability rights and disability culture, and the next slide gives you an example of this. This is the deaf bioethicist, Jackie Leach Scully, who is English, working now in Melbourne, Australia, who has written one of the first and most important books in the knowledge development about disability bioethics. And this is called Disability Bioethics Moral Bodies and Moral Differences. So we have not just treaties, but other knowledge documents, if you will, that help bring forward the context that makes it possible for people with disabilities to flourish most fully right now in this place and in this time. So I want to talk for a moment, and I have a lot of the things I want to say on slides so that you can have access to them later if you'd like to. This is a rather dense presentation, so next slide. I want to assert that human rights covenants, and this is, of course, a summary of what I've been saying in the presentation I've been making so far, carry out the principle of active accommodation that is fundamental to the disability rights movement. And those principles of active accommodation are change the environment, not the person, protect rather than regularize, abide rather than improve, and accommodate rather than eliminate. So this is my summary of the work of the Disability Rights Movements and its covenants and their enactment. OK, next slide. If we are to enact the work of these covenants effectively, and when we do that in our social order, these disability rights covenants that I've very quickly summarized here for you will strengthen support for disability culture for the presence of people with disabilities, and for awareness about disability inclusion and justice across all civic institutions. Another way of saying this-- next slide-- would be that implementing these disability rights covenants does four things. Does many things, but I want to enumerate the four things that it can do. One is to change attitudes, another one is to increase access, a third is to build community, and the fourth is to cultivate leadership. And I've given you some examples of some of the leaders-- people with disabilities leading the way in public culture for people with disabilities to enter into public life and to flourish most fully. I want to spend just a few more minutes, and we'll move on a little bit quickly. If we can move from-- next slide. And I'm not going to talk about that to get to the next slide. Because I want to talk about the second part of this paradox a little bit, and that is that at the same time that this flourishing of people with disabilities is possible now in a way that it never has been in all of human history, we are developing in modern liberal societies medical technologies for eugenics selection against conditions that we consider to be disabilities in the interest of procreative liberty and population health. And this is where genetic engineering comes in. Let me offer a definition of eugenics here, which is the practice and the ideology of shaping a particular human community according to the values of that community by controlling who reproduces, how they reproduce, and what they reproduce. So I want to suggest that genetic engineering is part of a pattern of eugenic technologies that are reducing human variation. I'm going to skip over some of the history of negative eugenics that I've included here. People can take a look at that a little bit later. I was going to talk a bit about the old eugenics. Eugenics being imagined as the self-direction of human evolution. We'll move through the next slide, the next one, into what is sometimes called the new eugenics, which is generally understood as liberal eugenics. Let me offer a definition of liberal eugenics. So liberal eugenics is a contemporary conversation among philosophers and bioethicists that debates conflicting liberty interests, and it makes a moral argument asserting that reproductive autonomy should include both the obligation and the right to select against bringing disabled children into the world. So this is a definition of the conversation that is known as liberal eugenics. And let me give you an example of liberal eugenics that comes from one of its major philosophers. Next slide. Next slide. Whoops, I'm sorry. Go back one. Thank you. So this is a quote from the philosopher at Oxford University, Julian Savulescu, who has put forward a concept called procreative beneficence in which Savulescu argues that parents in liberal societies have the moral obligation to create children with the best chance of the best life. And Savulescu goes on to argue-- next slide-- that couples should select embryos or fetuses which are most likely to have the best life based on available genetic information, including information about non-disease genes. So what Savulescu is doing here with procreative beneficence is endorsing what we call enhancement genetics to be used for enhancement in order to provide future persons with the most advantageous traits to have the best life. So this is the concept of liberal eugenics. And I want to move on to one more slide, a couple of slides down, to talk a little bit about reproductive selection technology and practice. Now, genetic editing is only one element of the practice of liberal eugenics in the reproductive environment. And I want to simply suggest several of these practices, and then I'm going to end they so we can talk about other kinds of things. But just to give you a list here of where these reproductive selection and technology practices occur in genetic counseling, genetic editing, selective genetic testing and screening, embryo screening, imaging technology screening, prenatal fetal diagnosis and prognosis, prenatal information delivery and framing, and withholding newborn care and sustenance. Now, whether we agree with these technologies and the use of them or not is really not what I'm bringing forward. I'm being descriptive here in saying that these are technologies that are in play now that have the effect of what liberal eugenics is carrying out. So I will end with one slide, which makes the argument that I would like to leave you with, and that is the effect of these multi-stage eugenics election practices is to increasingly standardize modern liberal communities by reducing human biological and social diversity, and along with it social tolerance for people with disabilities. So I'll end there. There's lots more if you would like to have access to the PowerPoint presentation. Thank you very much. And I'm happy to participate in the conversation. [APPLAUSE] - Wow, thank you, Rosemarie. I think that talk just raised a whole bunch of questions for us. - It sure does. - It's fabulous. So I guess I want to push on your very last claim, and first of all say that seems to be as an empirical claim as much as a normative claim. And as an empirical claim, is it consistent with your observation that, at the same time we've been developing these technologies, it is also the best time to be alive as a person with a disability at least in this country. Because I suppose one could make the argument that, in fact, perhaps something like allowing parents to have this kind of reproductive liberty results in people making choices to have the children they want, and the people who make the choices to have the children with down syndrome or other conditions that they could have screened for but chose not to. Really invest a lot in those children, and work to ensure that those children have a very good life, and those children are in our society adding to the diversity and richness of the society. So I just want to push on your very final claim there. - When I make the claim that this is the best time, at this very moment, to live in modern liberal social orders if you are a person with a disability, I don't think it conflicts with the premise that we're reducing human-- well, not the premise, the reality that we're reducing human variation at the exact same time. Take down syndrome, for example, people born over the last several years with down syndrome have the best opportunities for education, for reemployment, for a high quality of life, better than any other time that such people have been born into the world. And it is also exactly at the same time when-- and the statistics vary a little bit on this-- that worldwide, and certainly in the United States, we are reducing that population by up to 90%. - Did you have any-- - I think one of the key statements when you were describing liberal eugenics was the-- I think I'd like to you to just explore a little bit more about giving couples the opportunity not to have a child with a disability versus the obligation to have a child without a disability. Because I think that really gets at the heart of the matter whether you have a liberal society in which there's a freedom of choice, or whether you have a liberal society that is obligating you to do something that you wouldn't normally do. And, actually, my last statement was saying that we should not ever feel like you should be obligated to have a child in an artificial way. So [INAUDIBLE] obligation and choice or opportunity. - This is one of the really crucial points here about liberal eugenics as Julian Savulescu and several other utilitarian philosophers and thinkers-- sometimes there are other terms. Transhumanist, for example, who-- I mean, Savulescu makes the boldest claim by saying that parents have a moral obligation as opposed to an opportunity. So he's putting pressure on the possibilities for procreative choice or procreative liberty in order to make a moral argument that we ought to have the best persons. So that's why I like to quote that because there is, of course, a fine distinction between what we might think of as free choice and a kind of overdetermined choice, which exists in the reproductive environment. And the over determination of this free choice is created in part by the series of conditions that we have decided to test for with the potential to select against. - As I've been thinking about what you're saying, I'm reflecting on my own training and practice as a pediatric oncologist, which is we have families who come in with a child who's diagnosed with a cancer for which there is known therapy, but it's not guaranteed to cure their child with therapy. And if the parents refuse chemotherapy, in the US at least, there can be the court order forcing of the removal of the child and the chemotherapy administered. So do you disagree with that, or why is it OK to force a family to have chemotherapy for cancer, but not OK to force-- first of all, I agree that we should not force couples to have an obligation. I'm with you, but I'm wondering how you make the distinction between post-natal provision of optimal care versus, say, prenatal, what you're calling liberal eugenics? - The ethical problem is the expansion of what we consider to be-- of the human variations that we are now considering to be disease categories. So take something like down syndrome or achondroplasia. These are understood as diseases. These are understood as negative health conditions that can be tested for in a variety of different ways. They are also conditions that people can live with, and that people do live with, and that live flourishing lives with these conditions. So when you identify such a wide variety of human variations as disease, and when you have a very narrow understanding of what we think of as health and healthy and a healthy baby, you are establishing sets of criteria that influence the kinds of choices that people make in exercising procreative liberty in the reproductive environment. - Thank you. That was wonderful. I would like to change just a little bit and direct a question to you, which is-- so you set forth the criteria that the National Academy Committee had specified for when it might be acceptable to go forward with germline gene editing or heritable gene editing. And those criteria seem very-- it's a very, very high bar. And I wanted to put that in conversation with the comment that Dr. Bonham had on one of his slides from one of his patients that he interviewed. The person who said, well, if you can do somatic cell editing to take care of sickle cell, why would you let more people be born with this? Why wouldn't you just do editing that would prevent this from happening to people in the future? And so I wanted to put that in conversation. - Well, I think that quotes-- Vence is using that for a very particular reason because it's challenging a lot of us to think about just that issue. And I'll add to that as well, which is the argument, well, wouldn't it be much easier just to modify something at a one cell stage than try to modify an entire body, or even an entire organ system like the blood. So there's a technical argument that people will make as well. And I think the broad public discussion with a broad range of stakeholders is about whether crossing that boundary of modifying genes that will be passed on future generations, which I do believe is something that is a line, is it worth crossing that line for that purpose when the characteristic-- I'll call it a disease-- could be treated in other ways? I'll just reflect on what Rosemarie is saying is that disease always affects the shape of that person. But I don't think that mitigates giving the opportunity of that person to cure themselves of the disease. Just because somebody is shaped by their disease does not mean we have to enforce that they live with that disease. And you're nodding your head, so you clearly agree. But I think this is an important thing to bring out. Where I think we might get to is-- one of the things that has come up today, and I think a lot of people thought about, is this concept of risk benefit. So would you use a first-in-human therapy for something that had an alternative? Probably not. Would you use first-in-human therapy in a couple that this was their only way, and they chose to do it, they weren't obligated to do this, to have genetically related child, or healthy genetically related child? Supposing 30 years or 50 years, there's now been 100 or 200 people brought into this world that way, and it was shown to be safe and effective. Now, does the risk benefit change? And you start to say, well, you're right. Maybe we should do this for sickle cell disease. Then we get into the issue, of course, of I think it was implied in the question about malaria, is a lot of these variants do exist in the human population because they confer protection against certain environmental conditions. And we would have to continue, really, get even more knowledgeable about human genetic environment, social environment interactions. - So I think it's now time to invite the audience up for questions. Great. Jonathan. - So I'm just interested in this demarcation problem. So clearly, conditions like deafness, achondroplasia-- - Excuse me, would it be possible for people to say their names? - Sure, yeah. Jonathan Kimmelman, McGill University. So I'm interest in this demarcation issue. Clearly, one can look at conditions like down syndrome, achondroplasia, deafness as not necessarily disabilities, but actually affirmative aspects of human flourishing. There's another category of biological phenomenon, that humans encounter, that are clearly in the pathological state that have practically nothing affirming about them. Canavan disease, Huntington's, et cetera. And I guess what I'm wondering, I want to hear what you have to say about whether I'm misconstruing this. To me I'm thinking about this as a demarcation issue. You have some conditions that are just categorically pathological and others that aren't. Am I wrong to think of this as a demarcation issue? Or if it is a demarcation issue, tell me more about how we draw the boundary around the conditions that are part of human flourishing? They're just different and we haven't built societies around recognizing that flourishing, versus conditions that are just scourges. - Yeah. Maybe I'll take a first shot, Rosemarie, and you can do second. Absolutely, you're talking about what another person-- another way of framing that is-- well, I hate to use the term slippery slope, but what's disease and what's trait? I'll tell you what you don't want, is you don't want me deciding, and you probably don't want you deciding. That's why I propose that the decision should be made by a enormous group of people, including the patient-- we won't call them patients, people and family members with that condition. And I think that one way of thinking about it is, say, deafness. Some families feel like that defines them as a person, and they want to have children with deafness. Other families feel like that's not something they want to have children for. So I think that my answer would be twofold. One is that it's not me to decide that, it's the families of communities with the disease that weigh in. But then I would say, and there should never be an obligation, but I think there should be an opportunity. - Rosemarie. - Thank you. This, of course, is a really important question. And in laying out my description of eugenics and liberal eugenics and the practice of liberal eugenics in the interest of reproductive liberty, I don't want to make an argument that we should outlaw these practices, or to oversimplify it in any way. The important development of medical technologies and genetic editing is only one medical technology that will help human beings have better lives and flourish. I want to point out that it's, well, complicated. One good-- well, let me bring up two examples. So one example is Huntington's. So the conversation about genetic editing often turns to what kinds of conditions should we work to eliminate with heritable genetic editing now, and one of the nominations is always Huntington's. And I work quite closely with the historian Alice Wexler, who has researched and written about Huntington's. And Alice says that if you ask people who have Huntington's in their family, her thinking is that overwhelmingly these people would say Huntington's is an absolute scourge that ought to be eliminated from the human condition for once and for all. But at the same time, there is also a complexity to this. One complexity is that there is a treatment being developed now that is in trials for Huntington's that may be successful. That's one thing to think about. Huntington's is a very late onset genetic condition. Lots of things can happen between conception and the onset of Huntington's. Huntington's can manifest in a variety of different ways, even though it is a genetic condition that if you have the gene for it, you will develop the disease, or at least that's the understanding of it now. But what's most interesting is that for about 20 years we've been able to identify the gene for Huntington's so that people can, if they suspect Huntington's is in their family, they can have the genetic test and find out whether they carry the gene for Huntington's. And what has happened is only about 20% of people who may have Huntington's in their family have actually taken the test. And this says something about how we understand ourselves as people with specific genetic identities, and how we understand ourselves as navigating lives in relation to our genetic profiles. I'm not sure, nor is Alice Wexler, what this says, but it's something worth noting. This conflict that is apparent between the number of people that actually want to find out whether they have the genes for Huntington's, and the idea that Huntington's might be edited out of the human condition. Those are not necessarily contradictory situations, but rather, they're instructive for us to think more clearly about how we understand ourselves as human beings with genetic complexities and genetic identities. - Thank you, Rosemarie. We have a line of people who are waiting to talk to you. So next please. - I actually have a question for Matt about the last slide, the gigundo committee that-- the International Committee that's going to solve all these problems, and then get all their countries to sign on to them and pass laws. By the way, I'm Jennifer [? Hopeshal, ?] I'm sorry. I'm a political scientist in government department of Harvard. So I'm going to ask about the politics of this, not surprisingly, which is it who sets up such a committee? How does this happen? I mean, that's not your job to answer, of course, but the broader question that this evokes for me is, there are a lot of people in this room, probably including myself, who think that scientists have some responsibility, more or less, but more than zero, to engage seriously and importantly in the public arena. And other people who say, well, no, actually scientists have a distinctive comparative advantage, and it's not the public arena. That's the job of people who teach politics or whatever. So the particular question is about your gigundo committee, that sounds wonderful. The broader question is how do we get from here to there, but in particular, how do we think about the role of scientists, clinicians, front line people? How much responsibility should they have to take, and how much of it is just not their job? - All right, could I just say, let's let Matt answer that question, and try and keep our questions short, and remember that if we don't get a chance to answer everything, there is another panel after this that maybe can take on some of these questions. - I think I'll give a very short answer to that, which is I absolutely think scientists have an obligation to participate in the evaluation and interpretation of the science we do. But we don't have the-- we're not the only voice in the conversation. And I think the fact that we have many people today-- many scientists participating today shows many of us agree. I also think that some scientists are terrible at it, and they probably shouldn't participate. And just like I probably should not be a politician. So who should make this committee? Again, as you said, I don't have to decide this, fortunately. But I hope that the two committees that were discussed earlier, the National Academy Committee with the Royal Society Committee, as well as the WHO Committee, may come to the conclusion that this committee I propose needs to be formed. And then, I think it would be something like the WHO or the UN that would make this sort of committee, and we know how well that worked with climate change. So I understand all the weaknesses with such committees. - Let me say that there is a International Bioethics Committee, I have learned recently, that is constituted and run by UNESCO that exists. It's an International Bioethics Committee. And I was just at a meeting in Geneva about disability bioethics. And it was interesting because several members of this committee were present at the meeting, the conference. And they were very eager to talk about disability bioethics, but several of them said that they didn't know anything about disability or disability rights. So one of the things that would be important is to have a broad representation or, and a educational component for this committee to bring forward perspectives and histories and knowledge bases outside of medical science and medical technology-- - Absolutely - On this committee. - Thank you. That is-- I totally agree. I think we all agree. - We all agree. - Next. - Ricardo Cortez, the Institute [INAUDIBLE].. This question is for Matthew. On the technical criteria that you were listed as far as you're allowing this type of technology to be applied. You said, it was restricted to serious diseases or conditions, but when you see that there is about, I don't know, 30 million rare diseases in the world, and 80% of those are genetic, is that maybe just too broad over restricts? - The question is is the restriction too broad? Well, it goes I think a bit to what Pilar asked me earlier is why not for sickle cell disease. And I guess I would answer your question is start strict. If things are safe and effective and there is global consensus, then expand to more and more conditions. But I think in 2019, I would rather err on being strict rather than being loose. My opinion, right? - Next. - Hi, my name is Amy Steiner. And I guess my question comes from both being a clinician as well as a parent of a child with a disability. One of the things, or a couple of the factors that struck me in the presentation related to people with disabilities that weren't really highlighted was one, geography plays an important part in your ability to be successful with a disability. We actually moved 3,000 miles to get access to appropriate care for a child with Asperger's, high functioning, here today because he has an interest in gene editing. So I do hear the part about there's an ability for them to have thriving lives, but at the same time, I think geography plays an important part in access to care. Socioeconomics is also an incredibly important part. I spend about 25 to $30,000 a year out of pocket just so he can get the therapies that aren't covered by insurance. And then, to your point about down syndrome, there are varying degrees of disability and physical suffering that come with many of these different types of genetic disabilities. And so while one may be incredibly high functioning, another one may be very catastrophic. Bedsores, infections, chronic-- ventilator use and so forth. And so one of my questions is related to the covenants that were established. In what year were those established? Was that before a lot of this type of technology and discussion had started related to gene editing? And then, my other question is who should carry the responsibility of making sure that other children have access to the same things my son did? - I'd like to address that because one of the most important parts of this conversation has to do with distribution of resources, and just distribution of resources. So when I offer the real provocation that, right now, right here, perhaps in Cambridge, people with disabilities have the best opportunity for the highest quality of life ever in all of human history. That provocation is based on access to resources. And part of the conversation about the use of these medical technologies needs to focus on resource distribution. The amount of money that goes into the development of medical technologies to eliminate disability, and people with disabilities, could be redirected to increase and support the quality of life of people with disabilities, children with disabilities, people with disabilities throughout the life course in important and just ways. - In regard to the degree of physical suffering or potential physical suffering as a result of a disability? - I think this is a complicated question because it is ethically inappropriate for anyone to evaluate the suffering of anyone else. And we have had these conversations more fully around the politics and ethics of aid in dying, but to assess in advance what kind of suffering someone may occasion in a life is I think, actually, unethical for us to do in the same way that it is basically unethical for us to, as a community, impose the preferences of some people on future persons. And yet, of course, that's the responsibility, the parental obligation, and the obligation that we have as a community to ensure and provide health for everyone and for future persons. So I'm talking about a paradox here. I'm talking about a conflict of ethical imperatives that we want to be able to really think about quite clearly. - Hi, I'm David [? Risen. ?] Here's my question, it's directed to Professor Garland-Thomson. As a physician and the father of an institutionalized adult with severe autism who is intellectually very compromised, I could not fail to notice what I thought was a certain selection and bias in the group of disabled adults you showed us, all of whom were of normal or above average intelligence, and who were functioning in the world. Could you comment? - Yes, thank you for that question. A great deal of very interesting work has been done about or around family members with what we consider to be significant or severe disabilities. Some of that work is done by the philosopher Eva Kittay, who has a daughter whose capacities and life might be somewhat parallel to your son. That is to say, Eva's daughter has lived in an institution and thrived in an institution her whole life. And she could be understood as having a severe cognitive impairment of some sort. And Eva Kittay's entire work, as a philosopher, has been to make the argument that her daughter, and people like her daughter, can have a high quality of life, and can, and often are, loved and appreciated as family members. And to bring forward these stories, there are many of them in memoir written by people with disabilities who have family members, children with significant disabilities, who love and appreciate these children, and want them as members of their families as they are. As counter-intuitive as that may seem to many of us, these are the narratives that are brought forward that we need to pay some attention to. - Can I just make one comment and-- - Of course. - Which is-- and I think, Rosemarie, you should have said this, which is I'm sorry to hear about your son. It sounds like while he can have a high quality of life as you just argued, I think that reducing suffering in this world is all of our goals. And if you believe your son is suffering, then I think it's up to us as physicians and scientists and the society to find ways to minimize that suffering. And that's what the conversation is about without-- [APPLAUSE] --labeling human beings who are alive as somehow less worthy. So that's the balance we're looking for. - I wanted to add one thing. I think that the suffering and toll taken on his mother, on me, and on his siblings is also part of the equation because of the enormous demands placed on a family system by a child who is born this way. - Yeah, I agree. And I call that the echo of the disease because it really echoes through even more than just your family. I am sure it echoes broad, and that's also what we want to improve. - Thank you. [APPLAUSE] - Thank you, Pilar, Matthew, and Rosemarie. To say that was a very powerful session is an understatement. And not surprisingly, as someone said today, the technical we can do, we can work around the technical. But this is where the challenge lies. And we will take a 15 minute break. And please come back because Sharon Begley will have all the moderators back, and we will reflect on all the sessions today. Thank you. 