 A lot of people say it's hard to predict the future. But if you have insight and you have a good grasp of what's going on in the world, you can see the direction and the opportunities that we're going to be able to take. And there are futurologists in the world who work to see the future based on a lot of data and the insights they have. The future that they claim may seem futile, but in fact, with a high probability, the predictions are right. Because predicting the future is science, not prophecy. If we can see the future, we can have more opportunities and be more proactive. I won't have to explain how the future of the prepared and the unprepared will be right? Maybe we can change the future. What's clear is that the future will certainly come, whether we want it or not. This time, let's take a look at the future world that some of the world's most prestigious futurists are predicting. Year 2020 Oil starts to dissipate, and the world's main energy begins to convert from oil to solar. And as the 5G era opens up, self-driving cars start running and everything is connected to the Internet. The center of the world economy is moved from the United States and Europe to Asia. The United States will concentrate its defense capabilities on the Asia-Pacific region to counter China and will face a period of political chaos. Cambodia, South Korea, and some other countries, except Japan and the Philippines, have taken a neutral stance, considering China, which is an economic powerhouse. There's a huge evolution in communication technology. We can convert the brain waves into digital signals, so we can send text messages through telepathy. Long-term culture and organ transplantation through stem cells become common, and lifespan technology grows rapidly. Virtual reality technology is also becoming more common. But the virtual reality of this period you cannot connect it to the brain nerve and feel all five senses, but you can just see and hear, like the HMD. Year 2021 3D printed artificial kidney is commercialized, and the advanced battery and power transmission technology makes wireless power transmission more common. The state enacts laws that balance work and family, making telecommuting and flexible work universal for all businesses. This further improves productivity and work efficiency. Year 2022 For security purposes, CCTVs are refined and are equipped with mind reader functions. You can analyze your body temperature, your facial expression, your breathing, your behavioral patterns to see if you're a terrorist or a thief. In Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa, the first water war is caused by long-term droughts and by climate change. Year 2023 Nano clothing with waterproof, anti-bacterial, temperature control, and self-cleaning features are introduced. And this nanosuit is used for military uniforms, police uniforms, etc. Cochlear implant technology can help overcome hearing impairments. You put a chip in the back of your ear that allows you to hear the sound. Brain chip implant technology has also become common You can put a chip in your brain to repair Alzheimer's or to recover your memory. After two to three years, it's going to become common, and we're going to have to put in a chip for our memory. Germany's nuclear power plants are shut down as they shut down they will increase their share of alternative energy. Gorillas are completely extinct in Central Africa, and the jungles of Borneo are gone. Year 2024 We bring back the mice that had been frozen and preserved, and we get a clue of reviving frozen humans. Vehicles will be required to be equipped with artificial intelligence during manufacture and cars without a self-driving system will be banned from driving. Using the magnetic field proposed by Elon Musk, a hyperloop will be completed. It travels faster than an airplane. This train will take you from Seoul to Busan in 15 minutes. Year 2025 And with augmented reality, you can touch people in the distance, even awkwardly. 3D printers start human long-term printing, and implants will be popular. On the other hand, bioterrorism has become a serious problem in society as anyone can easily develop biomaterials. The worst could be the destruction of humanity. In addition, serious waste disposal issues will threaten humanity. China will get to the moon and mankind will begin to live on the moon. Rhinos die out and Arctic ice melts, so the island of Kibalina in Alaska is submerged. Year 2026 The rising sea level also decimated Maldives, the lowest part of the world, resulting in a massive refugee crisis. The work for Maldives to float from sea to sea to cope with the country to make work is being carried out. Advances in technology have led to the emergence of robotic arms with the same capabilities as human arms. Year 2027 Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa, the BRICS countries outstrip the economic power of the G7. The normal cars are almost gone, and there's only electric cars left. China's coal storage is depleted and occurring in the process of processing fossil fuels the carbon capture technology, which collects and isolates carbon dioxide, is also practiced in most countries. Year 2028 The pilot disappears from the plane, and all the reconnaissance planes are replaced by drones. The P21 gene found in the lizard and the ointment made from stem cells can regenerate the severed fingers and toes. This means that the prosthetic arms and legs will die out again. Some extinct animals are said to be restored. Year 2029 After 60 years of artificial intelligence research, Android robots approaches. It shares the same artificial intelligence with humans. This robot is able to talk to humans and act as a human helper. So, most of what we're doing the artificial intelligence does it as well. With medical nanobots, we can stop aging and continue to increase our lifespan. Nanotechnology allows the body to be reinforced and replaced. For example, you can calculate exactly what your body needs and deliver it to your body with a nanobot. And by replacing the blood cells with nanobots, you have a much better immune system and better breathing. You can strengthen your bones without surgery or perform surgery inside your body. In smart billboards, micro-sensors and nano-sensors are implanted. Sensors identify the lifestyle of a person passing through a billboard and display personalized advertising. Super and Marts are fully automated and the clerks are decimated. The world's reserves are also depleted. Year 2030 China's economic growth is at its zenith, and power begins to be handed over to India. On the other hand, the population of the West peaks and falls, and the power of the United States decreases and loses its hegemonic status. Smart grids are technologies that optimize energy efficiency by exchanging real-time information between power suppliers and consumers. This smart grid technology is installed in most developing countries, transforming the energy available to sell and buy solar energy around the world. There's a big transformation in education. Half of the world's universities are closed, and free online courses like YouTube, Kosera, and Khan Academy become common. The era of nanotechnology begins to unfold in earnest, and the unit price of all products is dramatically lowered, opening up an era of affluence. People don't work for a living, they work for fun, they work for self-realization. The era of smartphones and wearable computers is drawing to a close as the world of implanted bio-phones opens. It destroys cash and even cards. Droughts and desertification have become so severe that water shortage war breaks out that the use of desalination technology is skyrocketing worldwide. Depression will also surge and emerge as the number one global disease. Virtual reality becomes popular so that you can feel the same sense of reality in virtual reality. working from home is popularized through virtual reality. Year 2031 In 2031, there were more unmarried people than married people, and living together becomes common. And the perception of jobs changes, and the idea of a lifetime job disappears completely. Bangkok is completely flooded, leaving 12 million Bangkok residents elsewhere. Not only Bangkok, but Bangladesh and many other islands are sunk. Sea walls become useless. People become cyborgs by implanting artificial bodies. You get skills such as enhanced cognitive donation, improved memory, increased motor nerves, and reduced learning time. Stem cells have become completely common, enabling skin regeneration, bone regeneration, and regeneration of the nose and ears. Artificial magnetic 3D printers can be used in both large and small hospitals. Year 2032 Leatherback sea turtle are endangered, and in England, Fraxinus rhynchophylla become extinct. The speed of the Internet goes up to the terabyte range, and there's a fourth generation of nuclear power. Saudi Arabia produces one-third of its electricity from solar power. Year 2033 The super-sound aircraft, over 6,120 kilometers per hour, will begin service and the human race will land on Mars. In China, climate change and environmental pollution have killed 80 million people. It's also a time of depletion of human reserves around the world. Year 2034 Even Switzerland will shut down all of its nuclear power plants. And the tin of the global village is all gone. Year 2035 As most cars become unmanned vehicles and use less fossil fuels, the Middle East economy will plummet. As a result, corrupt politics prevail in Middle Eastern countries. Conflict between the rich and poor in northern and southern Europe and the acceptance of Arab refugees will ultimately result in the collapse of the EU. Russia, on the other hand, will be able to produce huge amounts of grain by turning its arctic soil into farmland, making it a super power source. There's only robots on the battlefield instead of humans, and China, the U.S., Russia and so on start colonizing the moon. Year 2036 Cellular tissue engineering technology makes culture meat without livestock farms, making it the fastest growing industry. Biotechnology also creates artificial eyes that surpass human vision. Year 2037 You can copy the brain and transfer it to the computer. Quantum computers are widely used and the U.S. develops new stealth bombers Year 2038 3D printing eliminates the need for large factories, and in the West, manufacturing disappears completely. It's because 3D printers make all the food free. With a device that prints clothes, you don't have to worry about clothes for the rest of your life. It allows for the instantaneous migration of complex organic molecules and the death penalty is eliminated in almost every country. Year 2039 The perfect virtual reality technology with the perfect sense touching becomes common in human life. All of the koalas in Australia will go extinct. Year 2040 India's economy will overtake the U.S. India, China and the U.S. will become the G3. Petroleum will be banned, and consequently, energy islands become common. Energy is generated via small tides, biofuel, solar energy and wind energy. Nuclear fusion energy, called the ultimate energy, also becomes commercialized. By reaching its final stages, prototype commercial nuclear fusion becomes able to substitute all existing energies. DNA sequencing also becomes possible by analyzing bases. Wrong genes can be edited as wanted, with genetic scissors. Carbon nanotubes become mass produced leading to revolutions in material engineering and architecture, and virtual telepathy becomes the personal communication method. Cigarettes become almost extinct. In the year 2042 the world population increases to 90 hundred million while the white population reduces into minor nations. 2043 Constructing and deconstructing products using nanotechnology becomes possible. By nanotechnology manufacturing costs approach about zero, so that the prices of goods become like the value of intellectual property. Also, with nanotechnology, the self will be able to obtain the desired physique and the recovery of the disabled with missing body parts and changing the appearance like celebrities without conducting plastic surgery and even switching gender becomes possible. Lookism disappears forever, each individual becomes stronger and gender-separating itself becomes meaningless. The body-less self made of electric signals existing only online moving into a physical body will also be possible. The idea of discrimination of gender and race disappears into the history. 2044 Due to climate change and global warming, the Earth's permafrost melts completely. 2045 2045 is when technology reaches its highest peak. Artificial intelligence smarter than the intelligence of all humans combined appears. The speed of technology's change becomes too fast that to understand and interpret it, the brain and the computer has to be combined. Converging of human and machinery begins, and the brain replaced like a machine so the human can borrow the intelligence of superintelligence or become superintelligence itself. Ordinary people can also copy and paste intelligence of the entire populations combined into their forebrains. Also converging with other people or dividing into several cognitions becomes possible. Whether becoming superintelligence or remaining as human will leave as the individual's choice but this will become very common as such technologies are taken for granted. Most flora and fauna will disappear and China will choose democracy. 2046 The steel industry will disappear and the generation of graphene, which is cheaper and 200 times stronger, will begin. 2050 From sudden automatization, unemployment will go worst and India's economy will fall rapidly. Half of the mankind will become machine-transplanted machine humans and the border between living and nonliving will be meaningless. 2053 Designer babies utilizing genetic scissors technology will born. Rich parents will select the height, skin, intelligence, etc. to give birth to the perfect babies and babies born from over three parents will become possible too. 2054 The world precipitation grows by over 20% than now. 2055 The power of politicians will decrease, dictatorship or totalitarianism disappear and most countries on Earth will meet democracy. The President, Prime Minister and Secretaries will lose authority and become positions for service. Most of the population will live as freelancers, and full time jobs will be deemed as slavery, so avoided by most. The world population will reach the peak at 100 hundred million, and artificially combined biohuman will born. Space traveling will be like just another trip abroad even to the general people. 2056 All press and media existing will disappear and millions of personal media will take the place. Numberless smart individuals will take power, than companies. All governments and transportation will become free and all information and knowledge found online. 2059 Mankind start to reside on Mars. 2060 From rapid climate change, 20 to 30 countries near the equator disappear. Consequently, a vast number of people become climate refugees and the world map changes. Also the technology of Cryonics, or bringing frozen people back to life, becomes completed. 2099 One house computer gains over 1 billion times more intelligence than the entire brains that have existed in history. Human and machinery are completely merged, both physically and mentally. Mankind realizes that human thoughts are nowhere superior to computers, and gives machinery the same legal status as humans. 