 Thanks, and thanks very much for having me here. As Erin said, I'm Adria Fernandez, I'm a postdoc at the University of Minnesota. I was in the Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics for a very long time, and as of 3 weeks ago I'm now in the Department of Horticultural Science. My work is focused on agronomy of alternative crops and soil microbial communities in organic systems, particularly focusing on what happens under winter cover. I'd like to, over the last 10-15 years and even longer new advances in DNA sequencing and other technologies have just opened the floodgates on the amount of data that we can pull in about the communities of microbes that live in the soil. And that has quite rightly generated a lot of excitement. Frankly, also, quite a bit of hype. And so I want to talk a little bit today about the, sort of the state of the science with regard to the soil microbial communities that we depend on. A little bit about how we study microbial communities, what we do know and what we really don't yet know about them. And what that means for you as an organic farmer working to build a healthy and functional microbial community in your soil. A quick overview of how we'll go through this. I want to talk a little about the methods that we use to study microbial communities because I think that helps to understand the kind of things we can learn. What we know about what soil microbes do, and what's different in organic systems. And then we'll go through some of the claims that you might be hearing about soil microbes and how to think those through. Some of the big unanswered questions, and how we can proceed as farmers and researchers given what we currently know. So, how do we study soil microbial communities? To learn about the soil we have to learn about things that we can't see. And so when we talk about soil microbial communities we're mostly talking about bacteria and fungi. So bacteria are tiny single celled organisms, sometimes you might hear them called procaryotes. Fungi are a little bit larger, they can be multi cellular, they're actually eucaryotes, which means that they're actually more closely related to plants and animals than they are to the bacteria. Those bacteria and fungi, the soil microorganisms, they serve as the base of this extensive food web of larger organisms.So they are the food and the environment for nematodes and arthropods and earthworms and all of the other things that are living in the soil. These bacteria and fungi, that's what we're trying to get at when we're studying the soil microbial community, or the microbiome as you might hear it called.In terms of microbes, the soil is by far the most diverse environment on earth. A couple gram sample of soil could have easily 10,000 bacterial species in it or even more. It's just, there is an incredible number of different things that are living together in very tight quarters. The reason why the soil is such a diverse environment is because when we talk about the soil environment, what we're really talking about is this whole spectrum of little micro environments.So when you look at what's, if you were to zoom in really tight on a particle of soil, it's not just sort of like a homogeneous space, a uniform space for microbes to live in.There are all these really different environments that are really hospitable to really different kinds of organisms. And so you have little bits of root and little bits of decaying plant debri that are hosting certain kinds of communities,. You have teeny tiny microscopic films of water surrounding soil particle, a mineral particle that might be host to a different type of community.You have different aggregates where things are hiding in different places. So the reason why the community is so diverse is because there's a place for all of these different things. Sometimes they are interacting with each other, sometimes they are living actually fairly independently in really different micro environments. And so it's really a challenge to get our heads around all of it, and everything that's going on there. And how that scales up to a macro level to what happens when you plant plants in there and grow crops. So one particular example of a very specialized micro environment in the soil is the rhizosphere, which is the zone immediately surrounding a plant root. Plant roots exude organic compounds, carbon compounds, the rhizosphere is a very nutrient rich environment, but it's also very selective, the plant only wants certain bacteria to grow there, bacteria or fungi. So we're trying to figure out how this impacts plants, but we are actually looking at a whole array of different environments in the soil. As we try to study things we can't see in these environments that are also kind of too small to see. There are several methods that we can use to get at what's in there, and what's going on. I want to go through these a little bit step by step.We can use culture based methods, or we can look at with a microscope. We can test the properties of the whole soil, or we can use molecular methods. So growing a microbe in culture means basically isolating it and raising it, generally in a pure colony. Getting it by itself. Often it looks like this, where a sample of the microbe was streaked onto a petri plate of gel, and it grows into colonies.And that's how we can learn.We can learn a lot from culture based methods of what a particular kind of microbe does.So we can figure out what it eats, by observing what kind of substrates or nutrients it needs to grow on. We can inoculate a plant with it and see what happens, does it cause disease, does it suppress other organisms.We can test it against other organisms to see if it inhibits them. The down side to culture based methods is that, depending on whose estimate you're listening to, only maybe 2-10 % of all of the microbes that are living in soil can even be grown in culture.The rest of them, we don't know how to grow them.They need something that we don't know how to provide, be that other microbes in the community or a particular specialized environment. So we can learn a lot about particular microbes, but only certain microbes using these culture based methods.And so for example one of the things that we can do is we can test microbes for disease antagonism. In this case what you see on the left is research that diluted a soil on a plate, on a gel plate, and looked to see what colonies grew. And based on the colony shape and color they can focus in on things they know might be of interest.In this case they were looking for streptomycetes, which are a group of soil bacteria that produce a ton of really interesting chemistry, including a lot of antibiotics. You can then take one of those colonies and test it, for example, to see if it inhibits a disease organism.So the plate on the left here is an inhibition assay where they spread the plate with a fungal pathogen and then put these, inoculated it with these streptomycetes to see whether they would inhibit the growth of the fungal pathogen.So you can see these blank areas around the bacterial colonies.Those are places where the fungus isn't growing. So they are actually seeing inhibition. So that's the kind of thing that you can test with these culture based methods. That doesn't necessarily mean that if you throw that bacteria into the soil it's going to behave exactly the same way, but it's where you can start testing the properties of these individual organisms.The other thing we can do to look at really tiny things is we can look at them through a microscope. And so that let's us ask questions about things like where microbes are located, how big they are, what forms their colonies take, how they physically interact with each other and with other organisms. And so we've learned some really fundamental things by looking at soil and soil organisms under microscopes. For example, the microrhizal fungi which you see on the left there. We've learned, we've seem them under a microscope, actually penetrating into plant root cells to facilitate a mutual exchange of nutrients between the fungus and the plant. And we can see, for example, soil particles being bound into aggregates by webs of fungal hyphae. At times people have estimated how many bacteria and fungi are present using microscopic, by looking through a microscope.That tends not to be the most precise way to quantify that, and we'll talk a little bit more about that, too. Another way we can get at what's going on in these soil communities without having to look directly at them is we can assay their activity. We can assay, we can test the activity of the whole soil, in terms of various things that we're interested in. So that let's us measure these microbial functions in a whole soil context. We can measure soil respiration, how much CO2 that soil is putting off, which basically tells us how active the whole community is, how much it's breathing. We can measure the activity of the enzymes that cycle nutrients, that break solublize nutrients. We can measure the decomposition of the plant litter. So for instance what you're seeing in the picture there are these litter bags, where you can put plant litter in these little mesh bags and bury it. A mesh that excludes larger organisms but lets these decay microbes grow in it and see how much vanishes from those bags. So that doesn't tell us which members of the soil community are contributing to these processes, even though we know them to be microbial functions. But it can tell us how our management practices affect soil performance. For example if we compare the decomposition values from soil under one management regime to soil under another. So that's the kind of thing that we can learn with these whole soil assays. And then the other way of studying microbes in the soil, which is probably some of what you've been hearing a lot about lately. This has been getting a lot of attention, both in the scientific and the popular press is these molecular methods of studying microbes. So these are based on basically cracking open the cells of microbes and detecting the molecules that make them up. There are a couple of ways that we can go about doing this. One is looking for particular molecules that we know are characteristic of particular kinds of microbes. That lets us sort of detect the presence of certain microbes, and know what's abundant in a particular soil. And so that asks us, let's us ask questions like, what factors are affecting the abundance, or the relative abundance of different microbes? Which microbes are active, or are activated under particular conditions? Or, we can ask, what are the functional capabilities of the entire community, and how do they change? I want to talk about a couple of examples of the kinds of questions we can ask about things that we can learn with these molecular methods. One example is what's called Phospho lipid fatty acid analysis, they call it PFLFA. So lipids, every cell of every organism is enclosed by this little membrane of lipids, basically fat molecules. And the molecules are a little bit different for every kind of organism. And so you can use them as a signature of what sort of organism they came from. And so this is a study from a grassland in China.We're going to look at a few data figures from some papers here, and some of them are a little bit, a little bit dense, but we'll sort of step through them together. So this is a study from a grassland in China that was looking at how the microbial communities respond to a simulation of climate change. So, how they respond to the soil being warmed, and how they respond to it being wetter. To test the response to global warming and to increased precipitation. And so they were looking at lipids that are characteristic of different groups of organisms in the soil. In particular that allows you to distinguish between lipids that came from fungi and lipids that came from bacteria, because it may be important what the ratio of fungi to bacteria is in the soil, as far as how it's going to function. And so you can see how there's these three sets, there's these sets of bars here.There's fungi, bacteria, and this is a fungal to bacteria ratio here. And they're looking at how the bars, the different bars within those clusters are different climate treatments that were applied. So they're comparing these four different treatments.So these white bars are the control, which is the current climate. The light gray is soil that was warmed, artificially warmed. The dark gray is soil that was wetter, that they applied artificial precipitation.And then this extra dark grey is artificial precipitation and artificial warming. And actually what you can see is that within each of these categories the bars are not very different. So, they were interested.Is this going to, is this simulated climate change changing the amount of fungi, or the amount of bacteria, or the fungi/bacteria ratios? And the answer in this particular case is not actually so much. It's not obviously a totally definitive answer to what climate change will do in all soils, but it's a really good example of the kinds of questions that we can ask with these methods. Another example, and another kind of method that you might be hearing a lot of information coming out from is this sequencing-based microbial community profiling.That's what I have used in my own work. One of the big advances in molecular methods for the last few years was that all of a sudden you can sequence way more DNA way faster than you used to be able to. And so this sequencing-based profiling takes advantage of the fact that in an organism's DNA there are certain regions that are, there are certain pieces of DNA that are what's called highly conserved, meaning everybody has them. But they have variation in those sequences. And so that allows those particular bits of DNA to serve as sort of a fingerprint. It's kind of analogous to a fingerprint, everybody has these little whirls on the tips of their fingers, but the details of the whirls are a little bit different. And so that lets us figure out what organisms these sequences came from. And so basically the way that works is you crack open all the cells. It looks really high tech, but actually all you do is shake a little sample of soil in a little vial with some dish soap and pebbles is really all that's going on.You filter out everything that's not DNA and you're left with the DNA of everything in that soil.You don't know where, who it came from, you just have a whole thing in one soup. But then you can selectively amplify, or replicate, those fingerprint regions. So then you have a pool of strings of DNA of those fingerprints from the organisms in the soil. And you can sequence those, and put those sequences through some data processing. What it gives you is basically, you can target the fingerprints of bacteria, or you can target the fingerprints of eucaryotes, which will get you most of the fungi in the soil. And it gives you sort of a census of who's living in those soils. A census with a lot of caveats, because there are various biases in this process. But basically it gives you a profile of the diversity and the identity of the organisms that are living in that soil. So this is data from an experiment of mine where we looked at the communities, the bacterial communities in the bulk soil, the regular field soil and in a crop rhyzosphere, in this case a soybean rhyzosphere. We just looked at what kinds of bacteria were in them. We went on to ask various other questions.So you can see, it lets you see what the composition of those communities is in different areas of soil. So, the problem with these kinds of sequencing based profiles is that a lot of what we're detecting in these soils, we have no idea what it is. Because we know what it's related to. The data, we're comparing these against known data, these sequences against known databases.And so we can detect things and say what they're related to, but we have never grown them in culture. We often have very little idea of what they might be doing. Especially because, particularly with bacteria, sometimes organisms that are very closely related can be doing extremely different things. Like, you can have a single bacterial species where some strains are pathogens and some some strains are beneficial. And you can have certain microbial functions that are really widely distributed across organisms that aren't related at all. And so this gives us a really detailed picture of who is living in the soil. It doesn't give us any direct information about what they're doing there. So there are ways of trying to get at that, at that functional piece using these molecular methods. Sometimes we call that using the metagenome, and the metatranscript. So instead of sequencing a fingerprint region you can sequence all the DNA that you get out of a sample. And that's called the soil metagenome. It's really hard to use because the soil is so diverse that you just wind up with an incredible range of sequences. But, it basically tells you what genes the whole community has.So that could give you a lot of information about sort of the potential functions that you might be able to see. So for example, if we're looking at nitrogen fixation potential, we can ask, does this soil have a lot of nitrogenase genes, compared to other soils? It still doesn't tell us what's actually active in that soil, because a lot of the bacteria and fungi in the soil, particularly the bacteria, some of them are just, they're not active at all.They're just sitting there dormant waiting for their time to come. And so we can also sequence what's sometimes called the metatranscriptome. So we can sequence or we can detect MRNA which is the working copies of genes that organisms make when the genes are activated. And so that allows us to ask research questions like, Does this community produce less nitrogenase, less of this nitrogen stifling enzyme, when there's a lot of soluble nitrogen present? That's the kind of question we can ask with that. For example this is a study from Michigan that asked precisely that. This was a really complicated figure, so I just chopped one set of bars out of it. But basically this was a study comparing genes including nefate which is a nitrogen fixation gene.Looking at whether that, more of that present in soils under conventional low input or organic management.Sure enough, there is more of this gene involved in nitrogen fixation activated in these low input and organic systems than there are in the conventional systems. Those are some of the questions we can ask, but the big problem that we face with these sequencing based methods is just that it throws an incredible amount of information at us. And so these molecular approaches are where you often hear hype. Because these deluges of data that we'd never had access to before, they look really exciting, and it just feels like, surely this much information is going to revolutionize our understanding of the soil community.We can generate these gorgeous figures showing in detail what we've found in the soil, naming every piece of it. That does increase our understanding, but slowly, and not as straightforwardly as we might hope. I would say there are some things that we can generally pretty confidently say that we've learned from the years of studying soil with this whole suite of methods.We know that soil microbial community composition is really largely driven by soil properties, like soil texture, for example, and soil pH. And site, where the soil is located. So we would sometimes like to think that, like, you know you can adopt a new practice and make a revolution in your soil communities. But actually, a lot of the variation that we see among soils is really driven by properties that are fairly lasting in that soil. We know, we've learned from these methods that the composition of the microbial community and the nutrient cycling functions are extremely variable at all scales. If you test soil in two different fields, it's going to be really different.If you test two soil cores three feet away from each other it might be really different. If you test two aggregates that you pulled out of the same soil core it also might be really different. That's not that surprising, given what we know about how heterogeneous the soil environment is. The other thing we've learned is that there's a lot of functional redundancy among soil organisms. Which means that in a lot of cases there's not just one kind of organism that can do the function that we're interested in. There might be a lot of organisms, and they might not even be related to each other in some cases, that can do a lot of the functions that we know we need from soil. We also know that, we've learned that a lot of microbes are capable of a really long dormancy. So the community that's active might be really different from the total community that we can detect in that soil. And we've learned that plants are very active in shaping the rhysophere communities, and the communities that are going to directly interact with their roots. They are putting off, they're both feeding the microbes and putting off chemical signals that are very selective for particular kind of microbes that they would like to interact with or that they would like to deter. These are all interesting things to know about microbes, but you can see that none of this really points particularly straightforwardly to, like, you should implement X practice on your farm to achieve Y result. And so a lot of what we're learning from this new deluge of information, it's still very much basic science, rather than applied science. We're not, we're gaining lots of small building blocks of understanding that can be eventually, that can be gradually combined to support theories and practices. I often feel like I'm delivering a little bit of a depressing message in this regard, but actually, I think organic farmers really understand, like, we're dealing with really complex systems here. And so I think it's important to think through how we can, and maybe how we maybe shouldn't, think about those. So what are the soil, we talked about sort of how we look at soil microbes.What do they actually do? We actually do know quite a bit about what soil microbes do and why they're important to cropping systems. The soil microbial community is really a jack of all trades. Bacteria and fungi have these extremely diverse metabolic capabilities. Basically, anything that you can throw into a soil, there's something down there that can eat it. And as they grow on these different materials, they are doing all kinds of interesting chemistry, they are producing all kinds of different metabolites.So they might be producing antibiotics and various other things. We'll talk a little bit about some of those specifically. Some of the things we know in general about the functions that soil microbes carry out. We know that they are integral to decomposition and nutrient cycling. When you put, when you till under a crop residue, the microbes are what is breaking that down and releasing those nutrients for future crops. We know that microbes contribute to soil structure and physical stability. We saw the picture of the fungal hyphae binding a soil aggregate together. They also produce polysaccarides, sticky substances to help bind aggregates together and give overall physical structure to the soil, to stabilize organic matter. We know that microbes, of course, can cause disease. We know they can also, microbes can suppress disease.And we know that actually, some of the enzymes and some of the extracellular compounds, like these sticky polysaccarides, some of them are released by the microbes and they can persist for a certain amount of time in the soil.So these are kind of general things we know about microbial function, and some functions we have quite a bit of detailed information on. For example, when we look at the nitrogen cycle and the movement of nitrogen in and out of different pools in the soil and the plants and the atmosphere, we know quite a lot about how the steps depend on various microbes. We know that, you know, when organic materials are broken down and some of that organic matter is stabilized in the soil reserves, that microbes are involved in that. We know that microbes also mineralize those stabilized reserves.They basically break nitrogen out of these organic forms that it's bound in into soluble forms that plants can take up. Microbes can also send nitrogen back out of the soil into the atmosphere through denitrification. And we know that, particularly the famous microbe, rhyzobium which partners with legumes, but also other free living microbes in the soil can fix, biologically fix nitrogen from the atmosphere into available forms for plants. We also know that the phosphorus, that the phosphorous availability to plants, in particular is really all about the microbes. That a lot of phosphorous in the soil is bound to soil particles, and it's microbes often that're responsible for the desorption of that bound phosphorous to make it plant available. It's also being immobilized and mineralized in and out of those organic stabilized organic pools. And then in particular there's this very important relationship between plants and a kind of fungi called arbuscular mycorrhizi, that we saw the photo of the mychoryzae penetrating the plant root cells, that that relationship, which most plants, not all plants, but most plants have that partnership, and that relationship is really important to phosphorous acquisition for the plants. Those hyphae go out and explore the soil for phosphorous and they bring it back to the plant in exchange for carbon, for food basically. We also know quite a bit about how microbes contribute to soil structure. So we know that a nice crumbly, well aggregated soil is what let's water in, it's what makes soil workable and penetrable, and hospitable to plant roots. We saw the hyphae binding soil aggregates together, microbes also contribute these sticky substances to bind aggregates together. And we know a fair amount about some of the disease related interactions with soil. We know that microbes can be pathogens. We know that certain soils also have these suppressive capabilities, where they make it so that even if a soil has a pathogen in it, the crop is less likely to suffer from that disease. So this is a particular study looking at disease suppression in a soil where they had cucumber plants planted. The researchers in this study generated soils that were suppressive to fusarium oxysporun disease.They actually did this by incorporating arugula biomass which makes the soils, made the soils suppressive to fusarium. And then they inoculated the suppressive and the non suppressive soil with the pathogen, with the fusarium pathogen. And watched the disease progression on the cucumbers after pathogen inoculation.They found that in these suppressive soils, that's the dark dots down here where the disease is progressing more slowly.And in the non-suppressive soils the disease is progressing pretty rapidly.And then they looked at what was going on in the microbial community.They profiled the microbial community to see, ok, in these suppressive soils, what's actually happening when we inoculate with this fungal pathogen? And so in this particular case they found that other members of the microbial community were responding differently to pathogen inoculation between the suppressive and the non-suppressive soils.And in particular, this study as well was focusing on these antibiotic producing streptomycetes, that actually when they inoculated the suppressive soils with the pathogens these streptomycetes were becoming more active. So, we know, so some of those compounds that are active we're able to study chemically and we know a fair bit about them.We can characterize some of these enzymes, polysaccarides and antibiotics. And we can characterize how they persist and influence the properties of soils beyond the life of the microbial cells. So, what's different in organic systems? The other question is how we can specialize this knowledge and make this knowledge applicable to organic farmers. Organic farming systems are really diverse.There's a lot of different practices being used, and so we can only limitedly generalize about what's different in organic systems.But they are different. And so we know that cropping systems, microbial communities are really important to crop growth in all the ways that we've talked about. But that influence flows both ways.So cropping systems and cropping practices influence in turn the soil community. So, depending on what crops you're planting you might be providing host plants for either symbiotic organisms, like rhyzobia, or pathogens. Physical disruption of the soil in cropping systems, tillage, affects the microbial communities.All of the things that we add to the soil, whether that is manure or cover crop biomass or crop residues.That influences the soil community. And any chemicals that we may be adding, whether from plant sources, organic proofed sources, or synthetic sources. The crops that we select are producing these different exudates.and the other thing that's going on is that plants actually compete for with microbes for nutrients in the soil, they want some of the same things, and so they are both sort of sucking on these soil nutrient pools and there is some competition there. So not only are the microbes producing functions for the cropping system, but the cropping system is influencing back into the microbial community. And so, what happens when you make the farming changes involved in going organic? I want to warn you that these are some pretty broad generalizations here. But, in general, what we expect to see, what studies generally see when they compare organic and conventional systems and watch systems through the transition to organic is that, in general, organic systems tend to have more microbial abundance, and more activity. In particular they tend to see more phosphate solublization, which is really important. That increased activity tends to get you more complete decomposition of plant material.We see that those changes build over the years of organic farming. That it doesn't flip the first year you transition.That a soil that's been in organic management for a long time is going to have accumulated differences from a conventional soil. But, I think the sort of elephant in the room here is what about diversity? Doesn't going organic make your soil more diverse?That's actually a surprisingly complicated question, that's a little hard to get to the bottom of. For a few reasons, partly because diversity is one of these things that's particularly dependent on soil properties and soil environment and soil texture. And it also varies along the time line  of the farm with organic matter additions. So actually one of my pHD studies, we had this kind of surprising finding, that when we incorporated a bunch of cover crop biomass the diversity that we were measuring in the bacterial community actually went down, which sounds weird, but it kind of makes sense when you think it through, and it doesn't mean it's a bad thing. For example, when you till under a bunch of rye biomass there are certain kinds of organisms that are, particularly bacteria, that are really well equipped to feed quickly on this giant feast of material that's just been added. So the diversity actually went down, as those members of the community temporarily sort of exploded, and became more dominant. And then the diversity crept back up as that material was processed into a wider range of partially digested forms.Anyway, the short story is that actually the question of like what causes microbial diversity and how you get it and what it gets for you is actually really complicated and very hard to generalize about. But, in general, so there was a meta analysis done recently of the findings of 56 published studies comparing organic and conventional systems around the world. And they looked at the data from all of these studies and concluded that there were some pretty consistent results. That in general you see these measures of microbial abundance, like microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen, and these total plfas, which are the lipid molecules increasing, and we see the activity of these nutrients, these nutrient cycling activities like dehydrogenase and protenase and muriases enzyme activity increasing. So in general there's pretty strong evidence that you get some increases in these microbial functions when you go organic.And we know some about why. Partly because of organic matter additions. So when you're putting down organic materials like compost and manures and incorporating green manures and cover crops you're feeding the microbial community. Also organic systems have a higher diversity of crops. Not using synthetic nitrogen makes a big difference. Putting in a ton of soluble nitrogen can tamp down the bacterial, the microbial community pretty hard. And also we know that it matters to the microbial community that synthetic pesticides aren't being used, although I want to make that statement kind of cautiously. I'll talk a little bit more about some of the details on that, because the scientific findings on pesticide effects on microbial diversity and activity are actually really mixed. For example, this is some data from my own research.This is an example of a whole soil assay, where we were testing the properties of a whole soil without necessarily knowing which organisms were doing them.We didn't isolate the organisms or the enzymes involved. But we set up some field plots where some of the plots we planted different cover crops, vetch, rye, radish or buckwheat. Some of the plots we applied organic approved fertilizers. You can see, the green is where these nutrient cycling enzyme activities and respiration were increasing, the orange is the few cases where it decreased. So what you see is the data is a little bit messy, it's a little bit noisy, but in general you're seeing quite a bit of green in there.In general adding these additions of organic matter is increasing the activity of the soil at a function that we know to be microbial immediated, these enzyme activities. But we also know that not all organic practices are the same. In the same study we looked at what our organic matter additions were doing to soluble nitrogen, how much soluble nitrogen they were putting in the soil. And we saw in particular these, you know this pelleted poultry manure, it runs pretty hot. It gives you the really sharp spike in nitrates shortly after it is added. And a giant spike in available nitrate from an organic source isn't necessarily going to affect the community all that differently from a giant spike from a synthetic source. So it is, so it does matter within the umbrella of certified organic practices, it really matters what these fertility sources are. So we also have, we know that different tillage practices under the umbrella of organic can produce different microbial communities. So this was a study looking at total soil microbial biomass under a couple of integrated management, so diversified but with synthetic fertilizers systems, and an organic plow till, and organic minimum till system, and basically they found that there, within the organic systems, if you're minimum tilling you're getting way more microbial biomass, particularly in the surface of the soil, a little less down below. And the plow till system is giving you less soil microbial biomass.They're both giving you more than this integrated system that's also using synthetic fertilizers. So we have quite a bit of evidence that within the umbrella of organic practices it matters which ones you're choosing. So as far as claims you might hear about, like, what practices specifically you should be using to improve the outcomes on your farm. One of the most common that you'll hear is that inoculates will make your microbiome better. So, sometimes people would like to go beyond using just general soil health practices like winter cover and reducing tillage where possible, and diversification of crops, and directly manipulate the soil mircobiome so that it contains more beneficial soil organisms. Either to carry out a particular function or to improve the performance of the soil in a more general way. There are a lot of products out there, that really range from very well studied and well supported to totally unproven. You'll see rhizobium inoculants, and other bacterial and fungal inoculants.You'll see people recommending compost tea, and the claims that are made about these products also really run the gamet. That you'll get increased yield, or improved root systems, more fertile soils, or more organic matter, disease suppression. And some of these, there are some categories of inoculants that we really do have very good data on. Rhizomium inoculation of legumes is the classic example of a really well studied, well supported inoculation practice. And so for example, this is showing that as you get more rhizobium in contact with your soybean seed you get more soybean nodulation and you get more soybean yield as nitrogen is fixed in those nodules. As long as the rhizobium inoculant is high quality and a compatible strain it is very effective at increasing nodulation and nitrogen fixation and yields. There are also some inoculant products that are less commonly used, but they do have some promising evidence behind them. They are organisms that can work in various ways, by they can promote crop growth by regulating plant hormone levels, or disease, promoting disease resistance. One of these is inoculation with these arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, which is actually, some researchers argue actually that this is an under used practice.That more crops would benefit from mycorrhyzal inoculation.Because those mycorrhyzae, mycorrhyzal partnerships are key to phosphorous uptake in the crops. So that's a somewhat studied inoculant.There's also been some promising results for certain strains of Trichoderma fungus, or certain bacteria like Pseudomonas and Streptomyces for growth promotion or prevention of root rot diseases.But again, this is an area where it really matters what strain. So just because a product says on the package that it's got Pseudomonas in it, it doesn't mean that it is something that you want. Some strains of Pseudomonas in fact are pathogenic. So these are areas of active study, where claims are not necessarily nonsense, although they are to be treated with a bit of caution as different strains will behave really differently. The other thing that you may often hear recommended is compost tea, or aerated compost tea, which is basically a compost sample brewed up in a nutrient solution, sometimes a molasses mixture. The problem with compost tea is the culture problem we talked about. Most of the microorganisms that were in that compost sample are not going to be growing in that molasses culture. And so what's in your compost isn't going to be what's in your compost tea. And so there's no reason to believe that it's necessarily going to, that the compost tea is going to behave like the microbial community of the compost. There's actually, compost tea was studied about 15 years ago by a task force of the National Organic Standards Board. They found that they could not recommend it. It's been subject to several additional studies since. And the short story seems to be that the brew can contain some nutrients which may have some fertilizer value, but there is little to no evidence of any other value. it was not found to be effective at suppressing disease or enhancing plant health. So that compost tea is a claim that I'd say to be particularly cautious with. Another thing that you might hear out there is that you have to get the right fungal to bacterial ratio in your soil. There is some conventional wisdom that holds that agricultural soils are bacterial dominated.Which makes some sense with what we know about the growth habits of bacteria and fungi. Fungal hyphae are easily disrupted, which makes them vulnerable in a tillage system.The bacteria, a lot of bacteria can multiply quickly to take advantage of large nutrient additions, which is an advantage in an agricultural soil. It is true that fungi are important to soil health, and that they are particularly vulnerable in organic systems. They are really involved in degrading lignen and other recalcitrant parts of crop residues. And so we do have some evidence that there can be an advantage to having more fungi in your soil. So this is showing litter decomposition, in specific it's showing the incorporation of carbon that was in plant litter into long term soil reserves. And that more of that carbon was making it into soil reserves faster in soil with a higher fungal to bacterial ratio. But the thing to know about this idea of a fungal to bacterial ratio is that there is certainly support, scientific support for using practices that allow fungi to flourish. Like reducing tillage. But there is no published evidence that there is a set correct ratio for each crop, or that you can get the right ratio by applying a particular product. And there's also really not any evidence that optimizing this ratio is the one true key to soil health, which is sometimes a claim that you hear. Another thing that you might hear in support of organic farming is that pesticides leave the soil barren. And actually, fortunately, this really isn't true. So pesticides can have various effects on soil microbial communities. But actually, it really depends on the pesticide.And so for example, this was a study looking at the composition of the communities when Glysophate had been used long term versus when it hadn't in corn and soybean systems.There are, actually these are not statistically exactly the same, but there's actually very few high level differences in those communities.And this is just the beginning of a long table which you should not try to read, but this is from a review of the effects of pesticides on soil microbes. And basically demonstrating that each chemical can effect a different, has different effects.many of them do effect some subset of soil microbes. And some of them do impair certain microbial functions.So for example fungicides can impair phosphorous soluization, but that also includes organic fungicides, like copper. But the take away from this is that actually the soil in chemical intensive farming systems is far from dead. So remember that soil is this really heterogenious environment, with all these different spaces, these protected places for microbes to kind of hang out and wait for conditions to be right. And so this is especially relevant if you're transitioning some ground. Even if that soil has been in chemically intensive agriculture for a long time, we wouldn't say that that hasn't effected the soil microbial community, but it's not dead. You're not working with a blank slate when you're transitioning new ground. So some of the big questions that we don't have answers to. One thing we don't know is: what's a meaningful increase in soil microbial diversity? We assume a more diverse community is better, but we have these communities that even when they've been beaten up pretty hard over many years, are still almost unfathomably diverse. And so we don't really have a strong answer to like, if we can detect a difference, you know that this community's a little more diverse in the soil than that soil, does it mean that the soil's better? Not really. We don't have a good measure of that. We also don't know, because the interactions among organisms in environments are extremely complex, we don't have a really good predictive mechanism for telling when an inoculant organism is likely to establish in a soil and carry out functions that you hope it's going to carry out. We really don't know, when we look at one of these bar charts of who's in the soil microbial community we can not look at two different charts and tell you most of the time, we really can't look at them and tell you, this one's better than this one. And we don't really know how that question of better is going to differ between different soils and different places. There is a ton we don't know about the organisms that we've never been able to culture. We don't really know what they're like, we don't know what they're doing, we don't know how they interact. In general we're still learning little pieces, and are far from having the whole big picture on how all these microbes interact. So, what does this mean, as you're trying to figure out how to proceed? And as we're trying to figure out how to proceed as researchers. So for now, I would say, it does matter what organisms are living in your soil. Communities that are profiled as having different members do to some extent behave in different ways. So you can't fully predict the function of your soil based on soil test values. If you have X amount of nutrients, you have X amount of nutrient cycling. We also know that farming practices matter, and we know quite a bit about what practices generally promote soil health, and they're all the things that you've already heard in general. That tillage can be rough on the soil, even though it's not going to wipe out every, it's not going to kill your soil or wipe out everything in it. But then in particular, it's disruptive to fungi, whose functions are important. We know that organic matter additions of feeding the soil, they're in broad terms a good thing. We know that in particular having living roots in the soil is really important in the community.We know that the question of microbial diversity and what's a diverse community is complicated- but we do know that diverse farming systems are a good thing in terms of microbial function. We know that diversity helps prevent build up of pathogens.That it provides a wider range of foodstuffs that a diverse rotation gives you more opportunity for integrating cover and perennials into your rotations. And we know that some inoculants can be beneficial. So, I have to tell you, I would say that this outlook probably puts me on the conservative side of researchers.There are scientists out there who really do feel like, we're really on the verge of a revolution in how we handle microbes in farming. But my personal take is that actually a lot of what we're learning, really has to do with, we're learning how the things that we already knew were good farming practices work. I can't think of an example where I've seen a study that looked at the soil microbial communities in new ways and found out that, oh, something that we thought was a really good thing to do on your farm is actually bad. Or, the other way around, that actually we're learning a lot about how the practices that we already knew we should be doing work. So we're learning about how adding organic material supports these communities and their nutrient cycling.We're learning about how living cover can build and protect a healthy soil, and keeping a living root in the soil as much of the year as possible.We're learning how reduced tillage can benefit fungi and they're various functions. And so as you sort of take that knowledge forward, you have decisions to make. In particular you have to consider commercial products you might be thinking about using, whether it's inoculants or amendments that might be used to feed microbes or supply microbes. And basically as you're considering whether or not you want to adopt a particular product, there's a few general principles for thinking about that. One is to look for products that have claims backed by third party research. Does somebody other than the person selling the product have evidence that it works. Especially you have to bear in mind that different strains of an organism might even have the same name, and are not necessarily the same as each other. And you don't know if the bottle has actually a useful strain of something in it. Analyze the cost compared to the promised benefits. Maybe you actually do get a little bit of benefit out of a product, but it costs you a bunch of money. Is it actually worth it? Watch out for products produced using genetic engineering.Not everybody who's really enthusiastic about soil microbes right now is also really enthusiastic about USDA certified organic farming, and so, don't accidentally interfere with your certification by using something produced with genetic engineering.Look for the OMRI listing to tell you that it's acceptable in organic farming. And you can do your own experiments.So I want to talk just really briefly about if you want to try things out for yourself.I know we're almost out of time here. So you can do a controlled experiment on your farm of whether a product or practice is working for you, without having to do fancy statistics and set it up exactly the way a university research trial would be set up. So there's a couple of principles to setting up an experiment that we use that you can also use even if you're not going to run a bunch of statistics and publish something. So, replication and randomization are sort of the two keys to that. So replication means that whatever you're trying, try it out in more than one place, and presumably more than once.So one trap that people often fall into is they say, ok,I got this bottle of something,I'm going to try it on my worst piece of ground, because at least it can't hurt. But, that really confuses the issue, because then you really don't know what's going on, whether you saw it, the crop's a little better there because the year was a little better, or because the product was actually doing something.So when you replicate you do something in a bunch of places a bunch of times and you see whether it comes out the same every time. Does this look, you know, so if I were to apply this product in four test strips on the field, do all of them look better than the strip next to them? Do all of them yield better, or have better plant health than the strip they're next to?So if you were trying out a microbial inoculant, that would be, replication would help you make sure that you were actually seeing an effect of that product. And the other thing is randomization. So that means randomly choosing which areas are going to get the experimental treatment. So here we've rearranged these test strips randomly.That helps us be sure that we're not putting the treatment into areas that are already different from each other. So that we know that if we're seeing a difference, these are replication and randomization are how we know that if we are seeing a difference between areas that have been treated and areas that have not been treated, that it's actually because of the treatment that we've applied. And if you are interested in carrying that research forward into something a little bit more formal that you might be able to publish in some way or share the results of, there are a lot of opportunities for more formal research. The MDA, Minnesota Department of Agriculture, I don't know about programs in Wisconsin, but I would bet that there is something similar in Wisconsin, has these sustainable agriculture demonstration grants.SARE has farmer researcher grants, the Organic Farming Research Foundation has grants. They all have programs for farmers to conduct and share their own on-farm research. So there, if you want to get into any of this a little more formally, and then make your results more applicable to more people, share them, there are a lot of opportunities to do that. 