 This is the colorful slide that George Daley was talking about, and it is a thank you slide as much as a conflict-of-interest slide. Thank you all of you, and everybody that helps turn our sometimes half-baked or crazy ideas into things that actually have an impact in society. We've been fortunate that many of the things we work on turn out to be exponential technologies, and what that means is it can change by two to tenfold per year, so they're going exponentially, improving in quality and price, faster than electronics, which is already a mind-boggling rate of change. Then this includes reading, writing, and editing of DNA - a 10 million-fold change in price and somehow people still managed to make money on it even after it's brought the price down 10 million fold. And so we brought the $3-billion genome, which everybody talks about as the Genome Project I'm embarrassed by - I was I was not a big, you know, started it in 1984 but I wanted to bring the price down. It did eventually come down to less than a thousand dollars about four years ago and Veritas Genomics was one of the companies that provided genetic counseling, but now we think we've got a business model where we can give away genomes for zero dollars and this, like many things I'll mention today, may seem science fiction ... but it is, many of these things are past or present tense. They're in, think of this like maps and search on the internet, those are free to the consumer -  somebody has to pay for it - but with genetics there are a few ways that we've discovered I think are plausible so these are just technically, these were all done not by filling a roomful of machines or technicians, but by reducing it, so that one tube, one pipette, one of whatever you have now does billions of reactions with the same effort of doing one, so it doesn't, you can scale that up if you want to the size of the room, but the important thing is we scale it down to billions of reactions in a single small tube. Now the themes that I just like to develop here, arguments in a certain sense, is there's an immediately accessible revolution in genetics we don't have to wait for, which is monogenic or Mendelian diseases. These are so-called simple - nothing's simple - but these can be done by orphan drugs, by gene therapy, and I would, I constantly encourage us to think about genetic counseling as a cost-effective alternative to therapy even though a huge fraction of my research is on gene therapy. But you can bring down the cost in ways we'll talk about a moment. Then there's the alternative, which is multigenic, multifactorial, environmental and these are sometimes called common or complex or chronic diseases and I think many of these should be or are being rebranded as diseases of aging. Ninety percent of us in industrialized nations will die of of these kind of diseases but it doesn't necessarily mean it's a complex treatment, and I'll give you an example of that. And then there's a question of whether we're doing prevention or they're doing reversal, partial reversal, or full-time cure. We're mostly focusing on reversal, as you'll see in a moment, and whether this is disease specific or taking one aging disease at a time or whether coming up with a general set of aging-specific... and we can do this with cell therapies or gene therapies. Now here's an example of a textbook classic multigenic trait, multi- environmental trait, tens of thousands of single-nucleotide polymorphisms, and it seems hopelessly complex, both diagnostically and therapeutically, but there are some genes that have very large effects and these turn out, these can be turned into therapies, most notably human growth hormone somatotropin, which is a single gene, single gene product protein that works on all these different diseases, used clinically. So you might think this is a silly question for me to be asking,  is human genomics useful today? But I will ask for audience participation: How many people here have their full human genome sequence available to  them today? That's a truly remarkably high number and disappointingly low number. Its typically less than 1% in the audience, but I will argue this is useful, but it's useful enough in a curious way that we'll get to. The cost for one of these Mendelian diseases, and there are about 7,000 of them, has been estimated somewhere, depending on whether it's orphan drugs, it can be a hundred thousand to a million dollars per year per patient, so a lifetime bill might be as high as $20 million, and the number is very, I'll give a citation here, from a Canadian reference, but the point is it's high. And this can be recovered if we can avoid Mendelian diseases through genetic counseling or other means. This can be preconception; it could be even premarital. And the reason I'll say this is quirky is I think it's analogous to seatbelts. Because we had seatbelts, they were essentially free they were standard equipment, they were required by law, there was ad campaigns. Nevertheless people did not buckle up, until this little piece of technology was it was added to the seat belt, which the seatbelt wasn't just a passive lock, it actually triggered a circuit and stopped an annoying sound. So we need the equivalent of an annoying sound for human genetics, which like seatbelts, only one percent of people will extremely benefit, but that one percent is such a big deal that they should do it, and you don't know that you're gonna be safe, that you won't be one of the million people a year that dies of car accidents or Mendelian diseases.  Now when we do gene therapy, we have options of addition/subtraction, precise editing and epigenetic, meaning regulatory. There's been a lot of attention recently to CRISPR which is mostly subtractive, but I think we need to think about the whole gamut of possible interventions and for aging we've heard a beautiful description of some and shown some of the data behind these nine or ten different pathways that are critical for longevity and/or aging reversal, but we have such deep knowledge of these,  so you can look at it half-empty/half-full, but we have such deep knowledge I think that we can start turning these into therapies quite easily, and the route that we've taken is gene therapy as you'll see in a moment. This includes you know reduction of cells that have genomic damage or are senescent, the telomeres, the protein regulation, caloric restriction, you've heard of many of these already. So I'm going to go through very, very quickly. I just want you to see eight or nine examples here and look for the word "reversal" in here because I just, I wanted to say that this is past tense. We have examples already shown in animal models and now we want to convert these into therapies that are suitable, safe, and effective for humans. So here's a couple of examples of small molecules the rapamycin, metformin, I think we'll be talking about these later on. Here's an example where there's four transcription factors, more about transcription factors in a moment, that regulate processes and and these have now been turned from something used in cell biology in the tissue culture plates into an experiment that has been done in mice where you get amelioration of many age-associated hallmarks. Telomerase can do reversal and in particular cases if you have cancer- resistant mice messing around with tumor suppressor genes, you can also have telomerase have its impact without much risk. We've heard about the senolytic methodology, the p16 pathway, there are actually the dark matter of the genome, the repetitive elements have been implicated in in this sort of senescence, and we have a lot of work on almost every major category of repetitive elements. These are the parts that most genome people don't want you to talk about. It's like the bad secret. Limb regeneration happens in some animals, and there's efforts to see if this can be translated into various regenerative methods in humans. There is this heterochronic parabiosis which is jargon for fusing the circulatory systems of two animals and/or just taking the blood itself, and this has been shown to be valuable for reversing cardiac and skeletal muscle, neuronal function in bone, another senolytic... Any time you can count the number of atoms, that means it's a small molecule, but our emphasis is on larger molecules. This is work from David Sinclair, with whom we collaborate, and it's a segue into the first of our large molecules. This is a mitochondrial pathway, which George Daley mentioned, the Haigis group is working on as well as David's, and this is nicotinamide, one way of restoring the inevitable decline in a number of small and large molecules that drop between age six and twenty two months in mice and corresponding aging in humans. So we tackled one step in this the, TFAM down at the bottom there which results in loss of mitochondrial homeostasis and we decided we would tackle it directly, now using CRISPR not in its normal role which is "hatchet man," where it just kills genes, but in this case we knocked out the nuclease and attached it to a regulatory domain so it can now imitate transcriptional activator regulators and targeted for four different sites upstream from the TFAM, which itself is a transcription factor regulator. Sorry if there's too many levels of regulation here, but it's it's all good because we managed to restore - there's a two-fold decrease in mitochondrial function via this pathway - we restored this up to eight fold, which is more than we need, and so we have some working room for modulating this. One of the advantages I should mention, one of the reasons we keep getting attracted to to gene therapy is that it is something that unlike small molecules or even protein therapies or orphan drugs, this is something you can do once in your lifetime and it can have a lasting effect. It's something that you can target very specifically to specific cells or even within a cell, and you can have feedback systems. It's a much more sophisticated drug, and I think of it as like the difference between a simple transistor and a modern supercomputer. So what we've done to generalize that a bit, and here we're restoring protein functions as they decline with age for the most part just by boosting them up. And so we look through all of the genes that have these sorts of properties, that have experiments that had been done in a variety of animals that indicate that there's evidence for either longevity extension, sometimes up to two fold or more of the life span, or aging reversal in various animals, and we then, they're systematically turning those into gene therapies, which is remarkably easy to get a proof-of-concept. Noah Davidsohn pictured here, is a postdoctoral fellow who almost single-handedly did 45 gene therapies and then using them in various combinations to see, because we want to get all of those nine or ten pathways of aging, because we think that it's naive to think that just one of those pathways will be sufficient, but it might not be that hard to get nine of them or the small number of genes, so using two or three at a time we have now, Noah has found a combinatorial gene therapy which is under review at Nature Biotechnology right now, which hits five out of five of these age-related diseases, which is indicative of, but is not quite proof, that this is getting at some fundamental aging process. This is high-fat diet based obesity's were sort of inducing accelerated aging in many of these cases, type 2 diabetes, osteoarthritis, cardiac damage model recovery, and kidney damage. Now part of the reason those those gene therapies were restricted to a subset of the genes in Pedro Magalhães’ gene age database - he was a previous postdoc in my lab - it was restricted to the subsets which are so called non cell autonomous meaning that they they had actions that spread to adjacent cells or throughout the body as a small subset and it's because adeno-associated virus is not yet fully tamed. It is among the best delivery systems that we have. It is the most approved method of gene therapy delivery, but it has room for improvement, and we have now combined machine learning, artificial intelligence and synthetic biology loop that allows us to engineer now over a quarter of a million different viral designs. These are not random designs, these are machine learning based designs where we've made specific, many specific changes to the AV virus, looking for improved resistance to immune problems and to tissue distribution, so we can inject this mixture of engineered viruses into an animal and then take samples from throughout the body and find which tissues it's going to and develop new viruses. And this is a work of Pierce Ogden who is a graduate student, Eric Kelsic, who is a postdoc in in transition. The hypothesis that we have, one of the hypotheses that we're using in this work, is that we can go from almost any cell type and age to almost any other, notably from pluripotent stem cells to any other tissue, and we have examples where you can go from 70-80 year-old tissue to almost embryonic and in the other direction, and the most dramatic case of this is Bruce Yankner's a paper on which I was a co-author that just came out a few days ago (George Daley mentioned Bruce's work on a different subject) where we could take people with Alzheimer's disease, late onset and so-called sporadic, and healthy age-matched controls and establish stem cells for each them and show that their RNAs are almost identical, which is a nice control for the next step, where we turn them into neuronal progenitor cells and neuronal networks, and now they're dramatically different. So even though sporadic means that by definition they don't have the classic genetic markers, we can nevertheless classify these into people that will get Alzheimer's and those that don't. And more important than just the diagnostic component here is that we can use this for testing new therapies. So here's example of differentiating human pluripotent stem cells. These actually are from my body. It's more ethical to do experiments on me than for me to do experiments on my students. Anyway this is Alex Ng Parastoo Khoshakhlagh, who are recipients of Blavatnik support, early adopters in this Accelerator - very grateful - and here is producing endothelial cells and bipolar neurons, initially in separate media and and then later combined together. This was actually harder than it looks. All those little red lines are very thin capillaries, five microns, just like the capillaries in your body. There's almost equal number of capillaries and neurons in your brain ... 86 billion of each and that's what you're seeing here, is you have these big nuclei for the neurons and the smaller red capillaries floating through them, the blue nuclei for the neurons.  That's an intimate connection between two different cell types that we developed from a single cell type and here's two other ones where the oligodendrocytes wrap the neurons with myelin. You may have heard of this as speeding up the conductances through the nerves that go through the white matter in your brain, so you can go long distances at high speed. This is beautiful wrapping that looks just like natural. So that one of the examples of a success story for gene therapy is CAR-T cells - hopefully you've heard of this. This is not only a way for T-cells to fight a variety of cancers but it is, it kind of shows off how gene therapy, sorry, how genetic editing can help with gene therapy in making them much more immune compatible so you can actually transplant from any person to any other person's, sometimes called allogeinic or universal cells. And we generalize this even further from any person/any person to any animal to any person, and we're in the process of testing this now. We've made dozens of changes in the pigs to make them humanized and missing endogenous retroviruses so they're less of a risk, and this is now in preclinical trials in non-human primates at MGH and other places, using these pigs. And to do this we had to overcome natural inclination for cells to die when they're cut multiple times with CRISPR. We made so many changes to the cells we had to develop ways to stabilize them and make them happy with that number of edits, and we've now set the record at 62 and a new record is now at 15,000 edits in a single cell. It's not published yet - you heard it here first. And finally I just want to say that part of the attraction for engineering organs is not just to deal with the incredible worldwide shortage where millions of people could benefit; it's the opportunity to do something that's very hard to do in humans whether the human organ donors are just humans in a preventive medicine sense, which is to make us resistant to multiple pathogens, to make us cancer-resistent, senescence-resistant, immunity - that we've been talking about and even cryopreservation if you want to bank away organs. This is very hard to do, but we know how to do it in animals, so what if we could transplant it from animals to humans and here's some examples of some animals that can survive through full body freezing. So that's all I want to say. Thanks again not just to the students and postdocs I mentioned along the way but here's Bruce Yankner who's helped us with a number of these neurogenerative diseases and Jennifer Lewis who's helped with the organs. So thank you very much and I'll open it up for questions. Thank you. 