 Assalammualaikum, today my group  as the opposition will be  presenting about stem cell research  and tissue engineering. Now, there are four main sections-- the first would be about the ethical concern in the islamic POV. The second is the ethical concerns in a western general POV. Third, will be the health risks of using stem cells and tissue engineering. Finally would be the social impacts of stem cell research and tissue engineering. Stem cells are undifferentiated cells that possess the capability to multiply and divide at a high rate that could give rise to new cell lines. Now, there are two types, the first is embryonic  stem cells and the second is induced pluripotent stem cells. Tissue engineering is the modern sciences technology  that is combined with molecular biology resulting in the regeneration of new tissues or cells. Now, the aim of this topic is to address the underlying ethical issues and risks in tissue engineering and stem cell therapy. in an attempt to prove that these methods are  UNSAFE and UNETHICAL. Now, from an Islamic POV, a major issue with stem  cell research is the destruction of embryo cells, specifically human  embryo cells and the way that it is done is through abortion and some Islamic scholars, they argue that it is unethical to destroy human embryos because they still have life values. and in some places, such as Egypt, they actually ban the use of  human embryo stem cells and they use umbilical cords as an alternative. Next, is the issue of using stem cells from unslaughtered animals or unpermitted sources such as swines or canines in the  production of artificial meat for human consumption. This is  prohibited in the Quran as these sources can be harmful for human  beings and another aspect that's usually ignored is the use of animal testing for research purposes this is an act of cruelty itself. and especially hamsters and mice are the two most commonly used animals for research testing and according to Radzi and Sha'ban (2016) Islam disfavours the act of killling animals as  they can also feel pain just like us. Moving on to the second point, much like the Islamic POV, the ethical concerns in the western POV, they also state about the destruction of human embryos. and advocates that deny stem cell research,  they said that destroying human embryos for research purposes is equal to murder and is  therefore not acceptable. and another aspect that is also the need for consent from the humans research subjects. Consent is the basic requirement  for conducting human subject research. Now, when people take part in clinical trials and clinical testings and whatsoever, they need to know all the details and what  their rights are in that testing. Furthermore, confidentiality must also be protected  because it might subject the donors or the subjects to unwanted publicity or  harassments. Now moving on to the third point, which is  the health risks associated with stem cell research abd tissue engineering. Now, Herberts, Kwa and Hermsen (2011) they explained that tumerous or cancerous cells formation are often caused by the stem cells' ability to replicate and  differentiate into different cells. Now, cancer cells-- they have the ability to  move from one place to another. They can move from targeted sites to non-target  sites which might lead to long lasting damage. Besides that, there is  also the potential for the host to have a negative immune response or rejection towards the foreign stem cells. Now, this could lead to a type of disease called GVHD (Graft-vs-Host Disease) which is when the host rejects the administered cells. Furthermore, a case was reported in Canada by Woodsworth, Jenkins, Barron and Hache (2019), in which a man is suffering from a tumour growth in his spinal cord due to a stem cell therapy he had 12 years prior and  apparently this happened due to the administration of unsuitable stem  cells at the target sites. Finally, there is a possibility of the patients having an infection due to the administration of infected cells or tissues or transmission of adventitious agents during the preparation of the stem cells and engineered tissues. Now, moving on to the final section-- usually when people talk about stem cells research or tissue engineering they usually talk about the ethical and moral dilemmas. However, an equally important question is what would happen to us--the society. So the first impact is the insufficient use of  funds and time. According to Ellison (2016), advocates denying stem cell research argued that the expensive costs and the exhaustive time process should be better-spent  on more pressing matters. This argument is a logical argument as many around the world face major problems and diseases especially now with the current Covid-19 pandemic more emphasis should be used to stop the  spread of the virus Next, is the third impact, which is the possibility of having health treatment that can extend lifespans or even give immortality. However, due to the current technology limitations, we do not know what it's like to have immortality. But it can be theorized. Now, stem cells and tissue engineering  therapies are not cheap. They are expensive and according to the WHO, half of the world's total populations cannot afford for basic healthcare. So, since most of the  people cannot afford to pay for stem cells & tissue engineering therapies, the question needs to be asked,'Should stem cells and tissue engineering treatments be banned for everyone because not everyone could afford it?' And Davis (2004) argues that the burdens of those who cannot afford to do so are too inconsequential to deny the potentially life-saving, life-extending treatments for those who can afford it. Now the third impact is the illegal procurement of  stem cell resources. What it means by stem cell resources is the human embryonic stem cells. Now, since stem cell research is still in early clinical testing phases, it's impossible to know if such an outcome would occur. So the closest approximation that  can be used is the illegal organ trading in the black market. Now according to Pearson (2004), this problem is an increasing issue since majpr countries like the United States and China are involved in the  illegal organ trading. Now, another reason why the illegal black market is booming is  because of medical tourism which is the act of going to another country for medical purposes. Furthermore, a case study was done by Mendoza (2013) which summarizes that basically the victims who are forced to donate their organs to brokers or syndicates are actually those who are on poverty line. They're too  poor to buy food and pay bills so they are forced to sell their organs. Finally is the  possibility of zoonotic infections. Now, zoonotic infection is the transfer of animal  diseases crossing species border into humans, and one such example is the Covid-19 virus. One possible means of zoonotic infection is the use of Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA) in stem cells culture. Now, due to the outbreak  Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE) in cattle. So these serums could be tainted with prions can cause a modified form of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans. And another possibility of zoonosis is  due to the human stem cells which grow on animal cells feeder layer during culture. Another concern is transmitting stem cells and engineered tissues which had been in contact with non-human animal cells. It  can cause acute form of xenotransplantation. Now the problem is that it might transfer  viruses or certain pathogens from animals into the human host cells. So in summation, it cannot be denied that stem cell and tissue engineering treatments are a revolutionary and very  beneficial treatments that can give a limitless potential into our hands. Therefore, ethical  committees should be aware of the dangers and implement strict guidelines and rulings to prevent any unethical conducts in the procedures. Thank you for listening and that's all from us. Assalammualaikum wbt.  