 Whitney Espich: Hi, I'm Whitney Espich, the CEO of the MIT Alumni Association and I hope you enjoy this digital production created for alumni and friends like you. Naren: Welcome. To all my fellow MIT, my name is Naren and thank you for joining us for the third installment. I'm class of 2013, so on the upper end of the MIT10 spectrum now, but proud to be for now a young alumnus, a graduate of the last decade, and host of tonight's event. This series is meant to be a place where MIT 10 alums can come together to its floor -- explore career areas. We have all study different things and today's focuses more on the bio side. This is part of an ongoing series that goes from being a program manager in tech all the way to social impact. There can and will be more panels on more topics. If you've got ideas, we're always down to hear them as well. We're really excited to have you joining us tonight because we have some wonderful panelists who can help us answer some questions we are all grappling with. You know, maybe you are in your first job after graduating or you have been in only one job since you graduated and you are happy with it. You might be in grad school, finishing up, wondering what to do next in this challenging economy and this challenging world post COVID. You might be about to jump back into school to get some kind of advanced degree. You might be hopping from job to job. You might be someone like me, I've recently took a complete detour working as a campaign organizer. All of us are wondering what is next? It is the age-old question millennials face. What do we want to be when we grow up? Regardless of where you are on your path, this series is for all of us together in a virtual fireside chat and to hear some stories. Tonight, we've got two alums who have been very successful in biotechnology and I'm really excited to have them share their stories. Our first guest is Dr. Leila Pirhaji, founder and CEO. She got her PhD in 2016. While she was at MIT, she developed a pioneer drug discovery and successfully founded an award-winning venture backed startup. She's focusing on developing therapeutics for metabolic diseases. Really active area of interest. And previously before starting the company,, Leila worked at Top Notch institutes in Zurich. As well as large Pharma companies like Merck. Her innovative work has received several prestigious awards. She has been featured on TV, in several media outlets. She was selected as a Ted fel low. She gave a Ted talk which received over 1.8 million views. This year, she was named one of MIT's technology review innovators under 35. Really excited to have you with us here tonight. Nick Davis is our other panelist. He received his doctorate in science in 2018. He's an expert in industrialized drug discovery and translational medicine. He has a decade of scaling technologies in biotech and pharma. So, with a passion for improving access to quality health care, Nick founded a company in 2018 where he serves as president and CEO. It is a drug discovery company that focuses on developing small molecule gene therapies for complex multi-genic diseases. He's got an international RNA team of drug hunters, biologists who have brought more than 40 different chemistries into the clinic. That is very exciting. A real-world impact. Over his career, Nick has advised several dozen early-stage biotech and university diagnostics. It sounds like he's also worked with executive teams at pharma companies and investment banks. Lots of diverse experiences. I should add, lots of comment entry points into biotechnology that you may be considering yourself. It will be really valuable to hear his perspective. Nick is incubating a new company he cofounded last year. It is not too self, maybe he will have a few words to say about that too. We've got a good program for you tonight. I will be back later to moderate the audience q&a. I will first hand it off to Ellen Stahl who leads the MIT alumni Association alumni career programs and will be our moderator for the panel portion of the evening. Ellen, I hand it over to you. Ellen: Thank you so much and thank you to the MIT community for partnering with this program. I'm really grateful to have Leila and Nick with us tonight. I'm excited to learn about the creation of their new ventures and the experiences that got them to their leadership roles. In my many years of career counseling, I find that for most of us when it comes to careers, we are all in a state of evolution. It is not always a huge transition. It can be loving what you do and making the conscious choice to deepen your own expertise or your focus. While for others, the question of what's next sometimes propels us forward with energy and motivation, and sometimes the not knowing hits us like a roadblock. I was one of those people, for sure, earlier in my career so I can relate to that. I think whether you are doing what you love now, whether you are energized by figuring out what’'s next or you are feeling stuck, what I used to tell all the students I work with in the career office prior to my role now is that I often find that talking to people who do things that are of interest to you and hearing different perspectives and getting that feedback really gives you an authentic piece of information to incorporate into your own planning process. My mom, I love to quote my mom, always told me that good decisions often happen when you have the best information. As sort of instinctive researchers at heart and engineers, go out and find that best information for yourself so you can make some good choices. Let's dive into the chaest. Leila, to start us off, can you share with us a brief timeline of your journey as a scientist? Leila: Thank you. First, I would like to thank the organizer for inviting me. It is an honor to be here to share my journey. I hope that inspires some of the audience here. So, coming back to how I started my journey, I'm from Iran. I grew up there. When I was growing up, I was passionate about science and technology. In Iran, our university system is slightly different from the U.S. After high school, I directly entered medical school. That was a lot of, my parents wanted me to be a medical doctor . I was led to that choice but when I studied at medical school, I realized I don't like it as much. I really liked mathematics and solving formulas and equations. I was looking at the course curriculum at the medical school and realize the only thing was physics for optometry and glasses. I changed my major that time. It was kind of taking a risk of getting a major was not completely known. It was a new major established at the University of Tehran in biotechnology, which is intersections of biology and engineering. At that time, it was a new field. It was longtime, that time, we have so much data available. We started sequencing the human genome. The hold field was relatively new, especially computer science and biology. I felt like I was fortunate because I love mathematics and I was hearing a lot about medicine. I studied at medical school. When I heard some of the professors at the University was one of the only people doing this type of research, they were doing basically -- I was so excited. Wow, this is so cool. I could use mathematics and biology and medicine. That is the coolest thing ever. I was very fortunate to find out very early in my career what type of research I like to do. I just kept basically doing the research at that time. Taking classes, I was just by myself taking interdisciplinary classes. I was taking classes that were not required, I just out they were interesting. I moved to Switzerland and continued the same research over there. When I was applying for graduate school, the MIT bio engineering department was the top. I remember I was reading papers and having papers when I was doing my masters thesis in Iran. I was very fascinated by his research. I was very first unit to go to MIT and work with him for my PhD. Even though I know my passion about science, I didn't know how I wanted to do science in my career. That was something, it was really discovered during my PhD at MIT. I also, the opportunities were different from where I grew up compared to the U.S. When I was growing up in Iran, in undergrad, I didn't know I had the opportunities that exist for different type of industry positions. The only thing that I knew existed for me was academic path. I didn't know about any other path until I got to MIT Then, being at MIT and after a couple of years, I realized I am not too excited about academic paths. I love the science part, but I didn't like to teach or I don't like writing. So, I was really thinking of -- it seems like a good option. At the time, I took advantage of the MIT career center. I was taking some of those quiz or other things I like. I was proactive during the process. I tried really different things. I was very fortunate because during the MIT, there are so many different opportunities to try things to see if you like it or not like it. I did internships at a couple of pharmaceutical companies, large pharma, kind of realizing what the industry looks like, what is the culture of a large pharmaceutical company. I did consulting projects. Just management consulting because I know some of the people were taking those classes. At some point, I got this entrepreneurship through my friends and was talking about what my peers like to do and what kind of career paths they consider. By talking to them, I learned more about it and it was very new for me. In Iran, where I grew up, the culture of a startup does not exist. I was -- the first on my heard about it, I found this class. How to turn an idea into startup. This is a cool class. I just took the class and I was basically started learning about entrepreneurship. Even that time, I didn't think I could use science for entrepreneurship because I didn't think that's possible. Just taking more classes and learning more, realized, wow, I could make a startup out of my PhD, because I love my PhD. I love the science part, but I didn't know what application of my science is going to be. I found it fortunate to be able exposed to the ecosystem that was available to me at MIT to explore different career paths and finding the one that was the right for me and taking it from there. I would be happy to get more into the process later. Ellen: That is great. Thanks. Talk about really drinking from the fire hose, right? Leila, that is great. Thank you for sharing that. Ok, Nick, your turn. Give us a brief timeline of your path. Nick: My path as a scientist. Well, I studied in research. The first quarter of my freshman year at college. I did college in California at Stanford. Ellen: That other school. Nick: I was just such a nerd that it was the thing that made sense for me. I have really enjoyed doing research as an undergrad. I ended up starting a company in undergrad. We raised $5 million, launched the company, licensed VIP from Stanford. It was kind of a spin-out. I cut my teeth as an entrepreneur. So, when I made the transition into grad school, I had some pretty strong line of sight into what I wanted to do. I knew that whatever I was going to do, I want to did to be at least tangentially related to venture creation. Starting new companies, commercializing and industrializing cutting edge science. You know, I think MIT was really an ideal place to be. First of all, it is in Boston. Boston has a sort of gravitational pull for all things biotech and pharma. The second is it is MIT so it was a fantastic way to explore -- having all the research tools and tricks at your disposal. I was able to really -- expanding my network. Being able to find some mentors to help me find my path as I explored from internships at flagship to, you know, working as a consultant for very early stage companies. Some that were venture backed. Then, eventually, I started working also, it was mentioned, Naren mentioned it, eventually I got the opportunity to do some consulting in banking. It provided a totally different perspective on the world. So, that is kind of my trajectory. I knew what I wanted to do fairly early on. The root to actually realizing what I am doing today wasn't obvious. Ellen: That is great. Thank you for sharing. I'm courteous for the audience, if you want to throw it into the chat, can you throw into the tent how many of you are in grad school right now or thinking about going to grad school? I'm just curious if anyone out there in the audience is in grad school or going to grad school. You can just throw it into the chat. Anyone? Thinking about it? Thinking about it. Ok. Naren: Put your other questions and there too. We will probably handle it at the end. Ellen: Feel free to ask whatever questions. Leila, I will flip to you and ask for your current role, obviously, you chose to go to graduate school and chose to get a doctoral degree. When you are thinking back from being in undergrad, can you share -- did you absolutely know you had to go to grad school? Thinking back now, given that you did and doing what you are doing, did you have to go to grad school? I know that you did because obviously we are here now and you are telling us your story but did you have to go? Is that what you would recommend for people wanting to be, you know -- do you need that for this type of work? Leila: It is a hard question to answer for other people, but when I was in undergrad, I loved the school. I was always so passionate about science and academics. I was always even when I was in undergrad, I was thinking what comes after PhD. I didn't want it to ever stop. I definitely didn't have the doubts but it is hard to say further people. -- for other people. Lots of people like to take maybe a couple of years of industry experience before moving to graduate school. If I had that, I think maybe it would help me maybe in the grad school process or may be doing different things, but I never had industry experience until I was in the middle of my PhD and took a couple of internships. If I was going back, I wish I would have captured industry experience during the time so it might have helped me navigate my PhD project or where I want to be, more in a purposeful way. I never doubted if I go get a PhD again. I always enjoyed learning and I think that is -- yeah, I had a clear path I wanted to do that. It is hard for other people. It is dependent on personal interest. In biotech and pharma specifically, having a graduate degree is not a necessity but it is very helpful. The work that we are doing is very specific. I know lots of people can be very successful not having a PhD, but I think in the biotech, compared to other industries, and might be more necessary than other general tech industry to have a graduate degree. Ellen: Great. Thanks for that feedback. Nick, what is your perspective? You graduated from undergrad, you founded a company. You are doing gangbusters. Did you need to go to grad school? Did you want to go to grad school? Why did you? Nick: Gangbusters is your word. I certainly did not feel that way as an undergraduate. I always felt like I was dropping the ball. I thought I didn't want to go to grad school. I knew that a bunch of people had PhD's working in pharma -- I thought, wow, they have PhD's, it looks like I have to get a PhD. By the way, I would not recommend that as your decision. It was very reductionist of me. I didn't enjoy grad school, unfortunately. The actual schooling part of it. Being in the lab, doing experiments. I liked thinking about these things. I like finding ways to find other people to do that, which is kind of my job right now. For me, grad school was very painful. So, it is only until recently that I really have been able to understand the value of, as Leila mentioned, being a specialist. When I have been fundraising during times I have been fundraising for my company, I have interacted with a lot, a lot of venture capitalists that have JD's, or even PhD's or Masters in science. There is certainly a Delta between those investors with financial models, and understand how to read review articles from the 10,000, 30,000 foot perspective. And then those that really understand mechanistic biology. People who understand data science algorithms and who can speak Leila's same language. That is a select part of the world and I am now, in retrospect, very glad I get to participate at that level with other people who do have PhD's. So it really is a question about how passionate you are about understanding the stuff that you end up wanting to do, if that makes any sense. That's how, at least, that is the way I discovered myself. Ellen: That does make a lot of sense. Your Internet is sometimes fantastic and sometimes a little laggy, but your answers are so compelling and interesting that we will be OK. I like that picture. Nick, I want to dovetail back on something you just said about grad school not being a great experience. For you. So, I want to know for those in the audience who are considering grad school, applying to it right now or might be in it, what is sort of your life lessons that you can pay it forward on how to potentially prepare or while you are in it to make grad school at better experience? How do you design the best path, where do you find the best mentors? Where do you find that resilience support? Any of those sorts of things. Nick: I would certainly say focus more on geography than I did. I had never desired, never thought about living in Boston, right? So, moving to Boston and experiencing the frozen tundra was not a pleasurable experience for me. MIT is MIT. Itself selects, and has a certain swagger, a certain type of person. That was less of an issue. It's the other hours that kind of frame your experience in grad school that, by the way, impact your life. I had such a simple view of just going to grad school and spending, you know, the first half of my 20's doing research. And I didn't really think about the person that I wanted to be outside of the lab. When I was applying to grad school. Those things actually really matter. Are you going to be able to find someone today? Are you going to be able to enjoy art, engaging culture? Boston may not have been the best city for that relative to New York or London or Paris, you name it. So, those are some things that I would strongly, strongly recommend that you think about ahead of time. Now, I did benefit, however, from having a broad network of mentors who are able to guide me on a personal basis, as well as a professional basis. That's something I would recommend, whether or not you are loving your grad school experience and popping champagne bottles every Friday, just living it up, or if you are a little bit like me and you treated the PhD as sort of a functional degree. Ellen: Leila, I see you smiling. Do you have anything to add in terms of advice you would want to pay it forward? Obviously, you took advantage of a lot of mentors and tapping into a lot of people. You found that research really interesting and you sort of connected with them and really sort of found your shining moments. What sort of advice might you give people as they are thinking about it and considering it? Leila: I think graduate school time can be very challenging. There are definitely ups and downs. I was thinking about it and there were times in graduate school there were downtimes in good times too. Some of the things that made it good for me was a really good group of friends and peers that I had. I think that really helped me. I was very fortunate. At some point, I was living in the graduate dorms. I was involved in the student government so what help me to get know people from different parts of MIT That really helped me. It was not just I was learning from my peers in the career department, but also having friends from different departments. ECS. Seeing what they do, how they find different jobs, look at different internships. It really opened up my eyes of broader opportunities at MIT . I think one of the things that was very helpful for me, I started taking lots of classes from different departments. I was taking lots of classes from Sloan. That ended up, I met some of my mentors taking some of the classes. Because MIT professors are really nice and really connect with you. I remember some of the mentors I had during graduate school, I have actually taken their classes and then I followed up with them. They usually like to help you. It was helpful for me. One of my board members, he has been very crucial person to developing my company, has given the really amazing advice early on. I took his class at the Sloan and I pitched the idea of my company at that time to him. At that time, it was literally just that idea. He really helped me. He had a brutal discussion with me, giving me very constructive feedback which at the time may have been hard to hear. But now looking back, it has been important and helpful for me. I got involved in different competitions, as well as different accelerated programs. I also got lots of my mentors through just attending and participating in those competitions. Just a developed a mentorship relationship that actually last beyond that period I was at MIT sandbox. All of them. Some of those things, they lead to become mentors. Just having a mentor for that program, having a mentor for your life. They can introduce you with the network. I am still in touch with many of the people I met at MIT, just being exposed then participating with different opportunities and following up. I think that was the aborted thing. Just following up -- the important thing. Just following up and making relationships that you connect with people. Just following up on that, that would be my advice. Ellen: That is great. We've got some great questions that have come in. Since we are talking about the graduate school experience before we move on to some other questions that might be dealing more on the current leadership roles, I think we should dive into these because it seems like it is hitting some interest here. What we have done in the past for those of you have not joined us for other sessions is we typically ask the person who is asking the question, if they want to unmute themselves and come on camera and asked the question to our guest. Mark, if you are willing, do you want to master question? Mark: Definitely. Let me see if I can compress this. I've been a sophomore -- software engineer for almost a decade, really interested in life science. I'm thinking through my different options. I think a PhD is kind of a, if feels like a commitment. It is a whole thing, a six year track, very particular thing. It is geared for academia. For me, one thing I would love in which I am tried to do right now, I am doing a lot of reading and learning about different signs on my own. My vague plan is let me find research that is really interesting, reach out to the scientists directly or their academic teams and maybe see if I can work with them. I think I am brainstorming, are there alternatives to being able to work on substantial projects with researchers, like through your own Hussle path? At the same time, I have heard two things. One is that academia can be hard to break into and it can be really hard on your own to figure out what the substantial real research questions in the field are. A lot of it is -- there's a lot of, it can be hard to find information itself. I am just kind of curious what the path is like. My goal is to start working on these projects but I don't want to necessarily enter this program and take the classes and thing I have to take the JRE's in this whole thing. I am not sure if you guys have thoughts. Ellen: Great question. I think a bunch of other people are thinking it as well. Leila, Nick, should I throw it to you? Nick: Sure. I have a strong opinion on that. If you have a decade of work experience, please do not go back and get a PhD in science. Your liquidity on the job market is high as someone who has the skill set that you do, computer science. In particular, if you have any data science expertise, you are a hot commodity. Life-sciences and other industries as well. There are multiple ways to explore your interests. First would be if you are interested in actually working in a company that is focused on human health, public health and datae, right? Or consumer health and data. There are many opportunities to do that either from a diagnostic and clinical side or just in terms of the logistics side and supply chain side, such as pill pack, for instance. You have this huge dynamic range of different things you can do on the professional side. If you are thinking more on the side or the end of a hobby, things you would just like to have as personal projects, one of the good things about being part of the MIT family, the MIT network is that you have a direct line of access to the media Lab. Or to, what is it called? All the research centers in the Kendall Square area that do cutting edge life science research. There is always, there are always more questions, more intriguing projects than there are people available to actually help and execute this project. I could just foresee you having a lot of opportunities if you just start prodding the network and I would recommend doing that. Ellen: Does that help? Mark: It helps a lot, thank you. Ellen: Josh and Ava, I know your question in the chat was dovetailing on Mark's question. Do either of you want to add any additional context for either Leila or Nick to continue answering, or was that answer helpful to you both as well? Josh: I would love to chip in a little more and just hear about your decisions around getting direct industry experience, especially post academia. Working either at a larger company or even a biotech or startup. For my perspective, currently at a startup, trying to get that experience and trying to balance getting that experience or branching out and catching that right balance. Any comments would be very much appreciated. Ellen: Leila, any thoughts? Leila: It is a great question. I think it depends if you have your own idea. I was in the position if you have an idea, just go for it and do it. It definitely does help to have some industry experience. I just started my company after graduate school. I did have a couple of internships during graduate school that I did at pharma. It is helpful. It was helpful for me to understand the culture of those companies and how it works. But it depends on your idea. If you have something that you think is promising, I would say just go for it. Having industry experience is helpful, but sometimes you get used to the comfortable life and it might be hard to transition. Graduate school, life is already challenging so you are used to it. But again, I mean, I have heard different feedback as well. Some people tell me it is really helpful to have some experience and to start euro thing. There are some studies, papers out there that they look at the age of first-time entrepreneurs and they are usually a little older and their career life. I don't disregard that information either but if you have something super promising at think it's going to work, I would encourage you to follow up. There's also books about the 20% entrepreneur ship or you explore some of the ideas you have while you are having a full-time position. And you figure out when is the right time to leave. Then, when you have some traction and your idea is more and you basically, you think you need that idea 100% time, maybe that is the right time to move. Just leaving your job without having a full idea may not be the ideal decision either. Ellen: Josh, do you feel like you have the right sort of people to tap into for advice on whether -- how far along are you in your concept? Would you be looking to somebody like a Leila or Nick, not necessarily for their specific advice, but for advice on where do you go? Where is the ecosystem to tap into to know if you are on the right track? Josh: I think a little bit of that. Helpful to hear your point on the idea and I struggle you feel about it. I have the idea, it is now or never. For me, it is the broader skill set of driving and managing a team, creating a team and things that feel very critical to me. Maybe I am biased with recent work experience but the addition of the idea itself. I think I am at a crossroads of establishing that or the idea is good enough. Your response was very helpful, Leila. Ellen: Nick, any additions to that? Great. Thanks, Josh. Ava, anything you wanted to add? I know your question also was similar. Feel free to hop on if you want to add any additional questions. Ava: I realize my perspective is a little bit different in that I am very early career. I graduated in 2019, just worked a year and started my Masters, next graduate program at MIT this past September. I'm contemplating the Masters/PhD dilemma especially since I am less pharma focused and more medical devices focused. I came from a company that was very R&D heavy and placed a strong emphasis on graduate degrees in terms of being able to advance a particular timelines but I don't know how indicative that is of the rest of the biotech, pharma, med device focused industries. I wanted to kind of get a perspective on generally the idea of a PhD be invaluable because people were perceive you as a specialist and a someone who has been through the regular, -- rigor, but also if you get a PhD in immunology for example, that is the one thing you will be doing for the rest of your time. I don't know if that is just an unfounded fear or if that is something you maybe think is valid and is worth considering. Nick: It is a good question. [INDISCERNIBLE] Ellen: Nick definitely has thoughts on that. Nick: I think this is the right question to ask early on in your process. So, you don't need a PhD. We just went through a mantra. You don't need a PhD to be in the industry, etc. As you noted, it could actually be very difficult to get that nice vision for upward mobility within a highly hierarchal organization unless you are that point contact person who just checked the box for the PhD. It is a filter that is kind of been adopted for the industry. For better or for worse. If you said to yourself I don't want to do the academic work related to medical devices, as a grad student, I would rather get industry experience and then another profession such as an MBA, I would actually strongly endorse that opportunity or that decision, because it could allow you to do different things. Whereas, a PhD -- are you in electrical engineering, biomedical? Ava: Mechanical. Nick: Mechanical engineering. With a medical engineering degree, you will have quite a variance in terms of what you may be able to do with the Masters. That is not exactly the case in pharma. It is just a different world. So, you do have flex ability to consider whether or not you want to be that tried and true PhD, card-carrying, you where the sash, you get a little pen. Or if you might instead want to do the MBA and maybe think about a different part of the business. Maybe it will be marketing, maybe it will be product design. Maybe it won't be R&D at the molecular level. So, getting a sense for really where your appetite and where your passion lies, I think should be the right forcing function for this decision, but it's a good question to ask. Ellen: Leila, do you have any other or you have a different perspective you might want to add? Leila: I think, the one thing I think that Nick was saying was amazing. I don't think people if you get a PhD, that is something that for the rest of your life you have to do the same research. I don't think that will be true either. I think one of the things I value just for the PhD -- we hire some PhD's in the project you are doing is not directly relevant to what they were doing during their PhD project. Problem-solving, me if I want to hire someone as a PhD, I value more learning independently how to think and how to solve a problem. And the ability to present and articulate those findings. That is something I have learned more the PhD students usually do better. Yes, if you get a PhD can you do five years of immunology, people would expect you to do just immunology. If you get a PhD in a specific area, I don't think it will close your options of doing different research topics. Again, it depends what you are interested in and passionate about. If you want to do science and research but if you're more interested in other aspects that Nick mentioned like marketing and organization, maybe MBA or just work experience will get you there faster. Ellen: Great, thank you so much. Lillian, did you want to ask anything in addition to these questions? I don't want to put you on the spot if you don't which is fine. Ok, so I will move on -- Naren: I have something and maybe we are about to get to this as well. We have got in a sense a bit of a rarity here in which we have two X ordinarily talented, young, independent biotech entrepreneurs. Which is to say you see this Intech all the time. People can go raise a round and start their own company. In biotech especially in Boston, the ecosystem is dominated by people with gray hair in large venture creation firms and it is very hard to be independent. Both of you have followed this path. It would be wonderful to hear more about that and how you navigated those challenges, of raising funding and being taken seriously despite being independent as opposed to part of another ecosystem. Nick: That is a really good question. There is something to think about. If you want to be in entrepreneur and the biotech industry, I would really encourage you to think about what that means. What that looks like because I think what gets sold primarily at MIT -- I know what other schools as well -- is that if you go into an associate program at one of these big blue-chip, kind of starry, sparkly funds, that that is a meaningful and kind of the only way to have a meaningful entrepreneurial experience in industry. The reality is there is very little entrepreneurship in biotech, from what, as far as I'm concerned. What I mean by that is that the only entrepreneurs that really gain the traction, the spotlight, they are venture capitalists. They start companies within these large organizations that are sideload, well resourced, and they can scavenge innovation from academic institutions. It is super rare for people like Leila to actually take their doctoral work and find a way to commercialize that work, to monetize that work, to solve a problem that is actionable and interesting for the industry, relevant for the industry, at scale. That is really, really hard. Unfortunately, there are really no resources to enable kind of what Leila and I have decided to do. It is a little bit like you have to throw yourself out there. You have to have a strong enough foundation. You also have to have sufficient conviction, that what you are working on is important. Because kind of back to my comment about engaging with lots of venture capitalists that don't have the technical background, they don't even have a master sometimes. They didn't go to MIT for undergrad so they already get a minus one. In engaging with them, sometimes they have no idea. They work in the industry, but they have no idea when a breakthrough is crossing, is coming before them. So, it is just something to keep in mind, something to keep in mind. I actually recommend -- somebody asked about getting industry experience. I think the question was kind of framed, such as do you get it before the PhD or do you get it after the PhD, before you become an entrepreneur? I'd actually say you should take the page out of Leila's book and my book and actually gain your entrepreneurial sealegs, so to speak, during your PhD. You will never ever have more support infrastructure really, institutionally as an entrepreneur than you do when you are a grad student. Ed makes for a very nice, convenient foil for an entrepreneurial experience. I would really recommend people to go out -- if you are in grad school or considering grad school, when you are in grad school, consider getting your feet wet, exploring the ecosystem, building your network, starting to refine your ideas. Understand what's going on and also understand why things are the way they are in terms of finances for companies, in terms of which schools are able to start up new start as opposed to other ones, and why that might be. When you go through that discovery process, it will be a lot easier to decide whether, yo u know, the go it alone entrepreneurial story is really for you or not. Ellen: Leila, I think my question I want to ask you is in terms of obstacles and dovetailing on Lillian's question -- here you are as a woman entrepreneur coming out of grad school with an idea and now with a company. I'm a woman. I am sure there are other people who are curious about what that process was like for you, with the obstacles might have been. Clearly, you are not going to take any obstacles, but I am curious as to what those were and what sort of advice you have. Leila: It has been definitely many obstacles and it has been definitely very challenging because people don't take you so seriously when you are just out of graduate school. It happened multiple times. I pitch to investors and they were telling me, oh, Billy way this works, you have to make a Pharma company and you are a young woman and you cannot do that. That was exactly the reason that you are young and a woman, you cannot become a CEO of a Pharma company so it is not going to work. Don't waste your time. That is the feedback I had gotten several times. It was very hard to hear those things. I think the biggest thing is just having resilience and the ability in yourself and taking -- not taking no for an answer. Just getting more energy to prove them wrong and just keep doing it. I would say, what Nick was saying, if you are in graduate school, that is a really good time to explore. When it started initially, there were many obstacles, it was hard to compete with these companies that get $30 million or VC's that exist in biotech that are very close to us. For get a lot of money and can do anything they want. To starting from scratch with no prior experience, people will doubt you on those things. Being at a school and trying to figure out different parts of it while you are still a graduate student, while you have the support of ecosystem, that was very helpful for me. I was basically starting my conversation with Pharma companies when I was in graduate school. I think there's lots of really amazing opportunities to be able to explore your ideas while you are still a student. I was fortunate to take advantage of those opportunities and get market traction. Investors were saying no. Investors are the ones that are the most, not trusting you. I got Pharma interested so I got paying customers from Pharma. They were willing to pay me to work with a start up coming out of MIT with no experience and no full-time employee. You are still at MIT. I think -- they didn't get the same. There might be something that these big Pharma companies are really to whisk or work with them. When we get market traction, when we focus on our customers first beyond making investors happy, they were saying, wow, they may do something right. We gradually take more market traction, prove ourselves, and grow on that. Then, we were able to -- not everyone believes in you but you find the people who believe in you and your vision and they support you. We were very fortunate to have those people around us that supported us and kept us going. Ellen: I think you and Nick have done amazing jobs at finding those people who do believe in you, who see the potential, who cheer you on when the doors have been closed in your faces and keep you going. If we could figure out how to bottle that or teach it to everyone else, I think that would be a great start up. I guess in the meantime, just hearing how you have persevered through those challenges is also helpful to hear. So, just shifting gears a bit until we can get other questions to come in. When you are hiring people for the roles you are hiring for, and maybe you can talk about what some of those roles might be, what are you looking for for skills, skill sets from your candidates? And what you most? -- excites you most and what are the things you hone in on? Is that those -- do you give streak read more to the technical skills or to the people skills or to the ability to sell you on themselves in the room? What really is sort of the thing that works best in those interviews for you? Nick: Oh, oh, me. I will jump in because this is very front of mind. I'm recruiting this week. It is a whole week of interviews and doing that dance with new people. Oh, it is so nice to meet you. How is the pandemic? Are you enjoying yourself? The interesting thing is, you know what, it is both. You asked whether we are focusing on the personal skills or the technical skills. In the industry, you end up finding that technical skills are kind of a dime a dozen. What is a little bit rarer, a lot of it rarer are those soft skills, the EQ. I have introduced -- interviewed the very accomplished people at Pharma companies and they say the darndest things. You would be really surprised that they kind of get away with the way that they express themselves sometimes. They will make disparaging comments about certain groups of people in an interview, right? Or they will call certain questions or prompts during the interview as weird or bizarre or a nonstandard. I like the younger people more. I know this sounds horrible. I let the younger people more because people I think in our generation really have changed people from different backgrounds. They are bringing a little more of that familiarity, that fraternity in addition to that deep, deep energy about learning and mastering something new or building something new. And sometimes, kind of the tried and true veterans of the industry lack a little bit of that. As a CEO, I have to make a trade-off between candidates as a start to build the organization. How much of this do I want to become a family type of unit? And how much of this do I just want to -- a hole harem of line chefs or line cooks to do technical things. We spend a lot of time with the people that we end up working with. So, you kind of want to like those people, right, as it turns out. I didn't realize this until I was actually doing interviews myself, interviewing people myself. The best way to place an interview is, of course, to have the basic requirements. That may be obvious, but it's also to make sure that the people across the table actually like you. It is not very hard to do that. It is not very. hard to Get someone to like you one way to get people to like you is to ask them to get questions. It is amazing to me. There are so many people who I interview who we will go through an entire interview just talk about all the fantastic things they have done, especially in the current job that they are looking to leave which is a little bit, I think ironic, right? Instead, the candidates I end up progressing and end up meeting the rest of the team are people who ask me, so what the hell are you working on and why is it important? Why is it that aspect thing and why should I dedicate the next couple of years at least of my life on this new opportunity? I think in retrospect, now I wish I had this foresight when I was interviewing for jobs. Or exploring internships. Or exploring consulting engagements. I wish I had a little more focus on, wow, how can I actually make people enjoy being around me? It is not about the technical. Ellen: Maybe the meritocracy -- there is room for those human skills. Nick: This not obvious, especially coming from MIT. No offense to MIT. It's not obvious that just checking that Mark, that I went to MIT, or I went to another fancy school, will not give you the pass go at every step. Unfortunately, it doesn't work like that. Laila, maybe you don't do any hiring, those really high profile positions, but I'm curious to what your feedback is on that. Leila: we do have a position open that were hiring, we been hiring, it's an ongoing process. Definitely behavior, attitudes matter, I wouldn't say we only hire someone who is a good cultural fit or behavioral fit, but definitely how people behave , the small follow-ups that would have after the interviews matter a lot. For us, it's part of the cultural fit that we have in her company, one thing that is really important for us is the passion that they would have, the passion to learn, the passion to grow, and the passion for science. As a startup, we have to work very hard, and I tell everyone I interview, we are not a 9-to-5 company, and if that is what you're looking for, this is not the position. But we want people to grow and we want to get them the opportunity to grow. As a startup, we do so many things, we want to have people who could learn very rapidly on different topics. These are the things we care about the most in terms of the interview process. Of course we do care about the technical background and we have our own technical challenge that we give to candidates, but many candidates score very similar, so it's hard to say this person is the best. I have interviewed people top universities who were technically very strong, but none of us like them, so we did not hire them, even though they were very strong technically. Some definitely liking the people who join passion. Ellen: Thanks for those insights. We have some questions in the chat, but I think I'm going to maybe have Lorraine sort of take over and ask some of the questions in the chat. Rain, you can take over -- Nare n, you can take over the questions in the chat. One question you ask on the co-founder points and the pandemic. Mira: I'm currently a grad student in a bioengineering program, so a lot of what you said about grad school resonated with me, and I guess I want to know how you guys went about choosing cofounders, you touched on hiring, and in the abstract, setting a company's values and principles, but in choosing that, since they will set who you would hire in the future, and also as a second one, since you all were grad students, how has your perspective changed from being a grad student who does all the day-to-day science and -- to being the CEO of your own venture and maybe taking a step back from the signs. Would you change anything during that transition? Nick: A really good question. Super great question. I want to start with the last part of your question, which is the transition from being day-to-day science versus --, I'm sorry to port, there is no escaping the science. Actually, you know what? When you become a CEO, or you don't even have to be a CEO. If you're in an early stage company, there are some things to do that are so uninteresting, it makes benchtop science feel like the Angels are cooing, crowds are opening, like payroll taxes. Why would I want to do that as a hobby? And yet I have to do these things. Accounting and bookkeeping, making sure I can massage the investors and make sure they are all easy and breezy and happy. I would rather be doing science. The weeks that I most enjoy my job or working with some new data or working in a new program or with a new partner, and things are happening, and we are getting signaled about how to develop the company, how to direct or guide our programs, or discovery programs. That's what I love most about the CBO process. The co-founder thing, I kind of cheated because my doctoral advisor is my scientific co-founder, in addition to kind of a world expert in this biology from Harvard. So kind of boring, right? I actually want to strongly recommend if you're -- I think this is also really important, if they have -- if you have an entrepreneurial bone in your body, and in this case we had to search for it but I found it in my doctoral advisor. It turns out he did, and he was willing to jump off the bridge with me. It has been an incredible bonding experience to build something and to see something move from just an idea to gaining traction, really gaining its own identity. A new narrative, like what is the opportunity here? And also some very clear operational plans. Without the founders who were world experts in this biology, without some of the first hires who were world experts in this biology because they were in the lab with me, it would have been much more difficult to get that brain power that collective brainpower to level up the thinking of the organization at inception. So that was a really critical process. It has now laid this nice foundation where anyone joining us kind of has to have the same tattoo. Have to speak the same language. They have to have that same energy, that same purity of engagement in order to fit in the culture. That has been my experience, and it has been great, especially when we get to focus on the science. Leila: I also cofounded the company with my advisor, which is very helpful because they are the person who worked with the technology with you, they had experienced before I started. It was the first company that came out of our lab, and I was fortunate that he supports me. So I did have a conversation with him in the last two years of my PhD, so I wanted to do something, and he supported me during the process. Even though he hasn't done it before, he supported me and I had his support during the whole thing. And it was really good to have him on board for sure, and having my professors, it helped, expanding for sure. The second question about transitioning from the science to the CEO, there is definitely a transition but you're still involved in the science. I would say actually it's a little bit changing the way you do science. You get details on one specific topic, but as a CEO, you actually have to learn new things that maybe you've never done it during your PhD. So you have to expand to how to do the problem-solving in some areas you may have never done and you don't have the experience with. And guiding the people on your team to do those kind of projects. Like we need to expand some areas, and I have to learn those things because now they are big part of our company that does those type of research. So I have to learn myself before hiring. But I still don't know the complete details of it to be able to do it myself, but I know enough to be able to help other people so I understand it. So it's a little different type of science. So I don't need to know too much detail but I need to know enough to know what is going on. You want to stay ahead of the curve. So it's a slightly different transition than doing the coding , that part I love more. Naren: That's a great comment because it segues nicely into two of the other questions in the chat. Isaac: This was prompted by what Nick was talking about, being surrounded by an entrepreneurial ecosystem. Anyone else who feel strongly about this, please jump on in. So I totally get that in grad school you're going to be surrounded by an item or neural ecosystem, unlike maybe you've experienced before and likely will be intimately connected to afterwards. What are aspects of that ecosystem that you think are particularly valuable? I'm wondering if there are any things that you think are actively harmful to folks in the ecosystem, or if there are aspects of the ecosystem that might just be missing entirely?  And if I can add an editorial note, tech licensing. Nick: I've got one. The entrepreneurial ecosystem in biotech, which is my world, could really use a heavy dose of diversity, like some kind of seasoning, something needs to happen. A flash mob -- I have no idea. I just wish that these firms took a little bit more seriously to have diversity within their workforce. And then also within the company. That's something I think we could really do a lot better on, and something that is a big focus for me at my company. That's the only thing that I kind of hate, and I think, and Leila talked a little bit about this, fundraising. There are entire groups of people that just get written off immediately, based on phenotype, based on ethnic background, based on accident. I've spent so much time working on my accent. And that's a real shame. I think it is a shame that people in the industry, people who have PhD's, they are supposed to be smart, right? I think it's a shame that we, collectively as an industry, and as an entrepreneurial community, haven't quite figured out how to gain those social skills to allow us to think about new ideas from people who don't look exactly like us. So that's one thing I would really encourage. There's another thing, I wish it could just be easier to be an entrepreneur. And I wish that there were just more of an ecosystem of support for entrepreneurs that don't have the ball and chain to a big fund, or a GP at a big fund. I still haven't kind of cracked the matrix yet. I haven't figured out how to write in the final, or more academics founders who would like to sort of help me. When I do, I will certainly let you all know. Isaac: One thing I would like to follow up on, I guess, I am aware of some students who were remote in the pandemic saying like, hey, we want to kind of support each other. So there's like a MIT-Harvard -- I'm calling it a reading group going on where you can highlight entrepreneurial case studies, for lack of a better term. I'm not actively a member of it, I'm not currently a student, but it strikes me as something that could maybe use a good injection of interested alums to kind of be advisors and help build out that system. Nick: Thanks for mentioning that. I would love to participate in any way that is productive or beneficial for the group. I'm actually shocked, I'm a little bit speechless to hear that that exists. That is exactly, for lack of a better word, the grassroots organizing that we need in the industry. So that people can actually start doing some Edge testing on their ideas. There is a reason, is not just because every venture capitalist is an even -- people mongrel that doesn't have respect for anyone under 45 years old. Most entrepreneurs who give it a go, the first time, they are horrible. They don't have the polish, they haven't figured it out. They don't know how to pattern match to fit into the fold, and so they are irrelevant for the way that the industry has decided is the standard to kind of assess deals or opportunities, etc. The groups you are talking about provide opportunity for peers in a would hope a safe environment to really start refining their ideas, and having the support system to do that is actually critical for making sure that people from different backgrounds have access to power, to capital, to employees, to other resources as well. So very cool, I would love to hear more about that. Naren: Why don't we jump over to Mark again. Mark: Speaking as an entrepreneur, but also jumping off some of the points that were just made, like I guess the original question I had, as a software engineer, and thinking about maybe there are some researchers that are think about starting a company, where would I go to meet that special group who is looking to do that? I think there was also a separate question in there, our software engineering skills really what these researchers would be looking for, even if I was able to meet them? You were talking about access to resources and things they would need to help them be more entrepreneurial. I have also thought like Navy I should go get an MBA, maybe I should think about studying the biotech commercialization -- like a PhD -- what are some of the things they would love to meet people with the skill set to help them? Leila: I think  it depends on what they are doing. If it's something in data science, definitely software engineering skills are valuable. There's a part of the algorithm that you develop but it's also as important as you do the science part. When we started my company, the first year, just on the engineering side, just having a PhD code that work is very different from a PhD coding production. It was not scalable, making sure it's user-friendly, making sure the thing that we are running doesn't require another PhD student with the same knowledge to use it. There's a lot of engineering processes that happen to make it automated and scalable. The data science won't be able to use it efficiently and it's not scalable to be run in the cloud and in a timely manner. If you're into any biotech or any type of industry that there is data science involved, engineering is as important as the data science part. So I think it's definitely a skill set that would be necessary in many scenarios, in many cases. Again, finding the right people who need your skill set, you also have to make sure -- you want to evaluate the opportunities you would have two apply your skill set. I don't know -- I would say pre-pandemic time there were many opportunities happening inside and outside of MIT, many of them open to alumni. I know friends that met co-founder's. -- that met during the hackathon s. There's definitely some  of those opportunities that you can explore, but I think your skill set as a software engineer, we are hiring software engineers right now and there is as much time on the engineering side as the data science side. Nick: There is a whole ecosystem that is burgeoning right now. It's still kind of early, I would say as an industry, as a focus, but there's a whole quorum of investors, here locally is -- Bessemer, General catalyst, that are focused not on biotech, which is pharma, for lack of a better word, a diminutive way of saying a pharmaceutical company, but they are more tech I/O. So they are really focus more on the engineering principles. That big delta between concept, alpha, beta, this idea that it is functional as a unit versus something that is scalable and deployable across many different instances. So the engineering of biology, the engineering of data science to solve or to answer biological questions, or to handle very large, very, very large volumes of patient data, these are entire disciplines in and of themselves. I would actually recommend understanding a little bit of that ecosystem as it stands at the venture kind of stage. And then starting to understand where the patterns are in the ecosystem. You will start to pick up on trance. There are certain ways that companies evolve into a venture backed company. Yes, it is true that many of them do start in the academic setting, but what I would really encourage is that you understand, what is it about these hits, these select companies that actually gain traction, that are actually getting coverage by wire, etc. What is making investors invest 200 moving dollars into this wild, walkie technology that does drug discovery based on images of cells? Once you start doing that, I think it will give you a bit more of a second nature for being able to process an idea when it comes across to you and it is unrefined. And empowered with that skill set, then you can start doing the scavenger hunt, where you are boiling the ocean, identifying the fish that pop up to the surface of an investigators, PI, Professor, grad students, who may be your next co-founder. Naren: These have been some really insightful answers here. I would say let's do a last call for questions now, if you've got something on your mind, a burning question, ask it now in the chat, or else I have a wrap up question, then I think we will be done because we are pushing 9:00. Going once? Going twice. OK, the last question is mine, I guess. So you both have picked biotech as a field in which to be entrepreneurs. Even though both of you seem to be doing a lot of software and tech related product development, unlike, let's say, some company that is focused very much on delivering and developing one compound and taking it through clinical trial , drug discovery and platform building. That being said, biotech is still biotech. Biology is still the hardest and most complex of the sciences and relative to any other endeavor you could've picked, you will spend a lot more time to get to a similar, shall we say, result or exit or what you might personally define as success. So maybe if you could share why you did that, or more importantly, what keeps you going every day? Leila: For me and for my team, I think it's the impact of biotech. That's what makes us excited. It's definitely a hard process, but at the end you could save many people's lives. I think that's what keeps us going. That's what I really like, coming back to the hiring, I hire lots of data scientists and software engineers and their talking about we don't want to write the code that makes advertisement better, you want to write the code that saves people's lives. That's the biggest thing in our company, you want to save lives with every line of code. So we're very passionate about the impact. Entrepreneurship is hard anyway so it's better to do something that can make a big impact, too. Nick: That's a good question. A little bit of an existential dread to your question since according to your question, it's going to take me 25 years to reach my exit. I'm joking, you are right, the predictability is nowhere, on an ad hoc basis you can't say this molecule is going to be supersafe in phase two of the studies, the pivotal study in this specific population. Using engineering tools and data science, we hope to get a good sense, a leading indicator of what success might look like. We also leverage a lot of engineering tools, as you mentioned, tech and data science to actually de-risk the process from that target valuation through developing a medicine, through validating the molecule. It actually engages your target any specific patient population, and also making sure that it is not very likely to kill the patient, so that it is safe. We use a lot of tools to do that. These are engineering principles to do that. The way that Leila and I do our companies is different than standard. It allows us to cover a lot more space. This is really modern biotech as opposed biotech 20 years ago, which might be one gene, one target, make a drug, see what happens, and go as far as you can, raise as much cash as possible. Today there's also a very robust financing ecosystem. There's a lot of ways to reach her exit. You can partner, so companies like ours that our platform companies are really appropriate for a highly transacted bull asset class, a pipeline, a portfolio of assets or services. But then you can also get an IPO, or you can get bought out, or you can have a direct listing to the public. There are so many ways you can financially engineer the exit. At the end of the day, you create value by solving your problem. So just like Leila said, if you can help patients live longer, that has to be the mantra. Because you won't ever grow into a great company if you never do that. I think we both share a very, Nice to, having been in the same department at the same time -- we share a common E thousand. -- a common ethos. Naren: So before I close it out, I always like to ask panel is how should we follow you and what you're doing, and how would you like people to follow up with you as well? Nick: You can kind of look on LinkedIn at Nick Davis, that's my name, it's very exotic, I know. Nick Davis MIT, I think you'll be able to find me. I  love to engage with any of you. If you have any questions, I will actually put my i.e. mail in the chat box. Feel free to reach out, more than happy to chat. Pretty casual, if you couldn't tell, so I would love to help out if at all possible. Leila: Same from me, I would love to follow up if anyone has questions. I love to follow-up in LinkedIn, twitter, I will add my email address here as well. I'd be happy to follow-up with anyone as well. Naren: Fantastic, thank you so much, Leila and Nick, for that wonderful discussion and all your insight. Thank you all for participating and asking some really thought-provoking questions and for being such involved alumni. I do want to tell you all to mark your calendars for months rash rat chat on December 8. Our featured guest will be talking about careers focused on social impact. So kind of a nice segue from this conversation about impacting patients lives. So thank you all again, I wish you a good night and hope to see you again next month. Whitney Espich: Thanks for joining us and for more information on how to connect with the MIT Alumni Association please visit our website. 