 Hello and welcome to Hopkins at Home. Thank you  for joining us. My name is Michael Schatz and   I'm an Associate Professor of Computer Science  and Biology. Today we'll be talking about how   genomics impacts modern life. We will welcome any  questions that you have by entering them into the   chat module on your screen. There's going to  be a few times throughout the presentation   while I'll pause to take questions. So let's  go ahead and jump right into the presentation.   So just to start, let me tell you a little bit  about myself and some of the things that my lab   works on. My research has been in  genomics for about 20 years now,   and we're really interested in understanding  the structure and function of different genome   sequences. So shown here is the familiar double  helix. Of course, we're very interested in that   molecule and, and how it operates, but really  what my lab really focuses is on are the A, C,   G's and T's, the individual nucleotides that are  arranged along the genome in order to as follow up   genetic messages. Our work is sort of focused on  two major application areas. About half the time   I focus on human genetics and the other half of  the time I focus on agricultural genome. Within   human genetics, we focus on sort of investigating  the genetic origins of many important diseases.   Currently, we have a lot of focus on different  forms of cancer. We've also done a lot of research   into the genetic origins of autism spectrum  disorders and other and other major disputes.   On the agricultural side, I mean, I think a lot  about how are we going to feed the world, where   we look at major crop species like rice or corn or  wheat and which we think about how their different   genomes impacts, how well they grow, how they can  live in different environments and how are, how   we are going to be able to increase their yields  for many years to come. What's interesting though,   is I'm not really a biologist by training, I'm  a computer scientist by training. And that's   because your genome, the A's, C's, G's and T's  is this enormously long and complicated molecule   that requires very sophisticated software to be  able to analyze it, make sense of it. So I'm a   computer science by training. I think a lot about  how to write software, how to develop computer   systems that can be applied at very large  scales. In addition, I think a lot about new   technologies for making measurements of molecules  inside of cells. So we can...so at this point,   the technology exists where we can isolate a  single cell out of your body or out of some   tissue, look at the genome, look at sort of what  other...activity are happening inside of there,   including with single molecule resolution.  These advances were just not possible just   a few years ago, which is just a testament  to how quickly these technologies are...   Today, what I'm going to do is sort of give  you a little tour through how genomics is   impacting modern life. To do this, I'm  going to start just by a few minutes,   sort of introduction talking about what is DNA,  how could we sequence it, some sort of very broad   introduction to the field. And then I thought  I would do kind of a deep dive on two major   topics that I think will be touching the lives  of basically everyone on this call today.    The first one, we'll talk about some of the  sequencing we're doing here at Johns Hopkins,   looking at the SARS COVID-19 viral genome. And,  and, and I'll tell you about how we've been able   to sequence it out of the patients that are  present there. Do some comparisons between   the viruses to look at how that's mutated and  being transmitted. And then the next major topic   I'll talk about is how we're applying some  of these same DNA sequencing technologies   to study human disease in particular, studying  breast cancer. We'll talk about some of our latest   advances there in order to develop a  very detailed profiles of genetic risk   to really understand the origins of that disease.  At the end, I'll give you a kind of a little sneak   peek into the future. We'll talk about some new  technology, some new ideas that we're working on   that I think are going to really be impactful very  broadly across genomes. So let's dive in here.   So DNA, as I mentioned, is this is this very, very  important molecule inside of all of your cells,   you have a copy of it and your DNA along with  your environment and your experiences really   shapes who you are. In some, in some ways the  shaping, I mean, very specifically, you know, how   tall you are, for example, is a highly heritable  trait. For me to try to guess how tall you are,   well I can look at your parents, I can look at  your immediate family members, what I'm and I   can come up with a very good prediction of how  tall you would be. And that's because the sort   of the genetic basis for it is very strongly  coded in your genome. It's very distributed.   There's lots of variants that contribute a small  amount to height, but it's very, very profoundly   present. Other physical characteristics like  your hair, your eyes, skin color, again, is a   very strong genetic component to that. For other  characteristics like susceptibility to disease or   drug treatments, even how long you live,  or some of your cognitive abilities   are very much influenced by your genome. Although  of course you can't look at it in isolation. You   also have to think about your environment, your  experiences, all of these things in combination   shape who you are. So of course, for as long as  we've known about DNA, going back to the 1950s,   there's been a lot of interest to sort of sequence  it and study it so that we can decode these   genetic messages, truly learn more about  ourselves and about the world around us.   And humans, like us, your body is made up of a few  trillion cells maybe five or 10 trillion cells and   each of those different cells carries more or  less an exact copy of the DNA that is present.   The size of this is quite astounding. So each cell  will have about 3 billion nucleotides. Actually,   it's about double that. Because humans are  so-called diploid species where we have two   copies of every chromosome. So it's actually about  6 billion nucleotides of DNA are all compacted   inside of each cell. In fact, if you're going to  take that DNA and stretch it out, it'd be about   two meters long. And if you take that 2 million,  that two meters, long times the tens of trillions   of cells in your body that you produce over your  lifetime, this would be approximately one light   year worth of DNA is created by all of us over our  lifetime. It's just a staggering amount of DNA,   a staggering amount of genetic information that is  copied. What's really interesting though, is, you   know, every cell in your body more or less carries  an exact copy of the same DNA, but obviously your   body does many different things, right? If you  think about your, you know, your bones are very   hard and stiff, your blood is a fluid, your  skin, your neurons, your stomach, you know,   all these different organs, all these different  cells all share the same DNA, they just sort of   are sort of take on different aspects of the  DNA are activated. A useful analogy of this is,   you know, we can all carry around our smartphones.  And sometimes my smartphone is a game,   sometimes it's a video player, sometimes it's  a web browser, sometimes it's an email... It   has the same hardware, it's the same software  on the phone and then it all depends on what   sort of programs being executed controls,  what that phone is doing. In the same way,   all of your cells carry more or less the same  DNA, but depending on which genes are activated,   will determine what the properties of those  cells are, those issues, be it, your bra-,   your bones, your brains, your blood, your  skin, your hair, all these different things.   It's the same, same genome just gets sort of  activated, it just gets turned on and off in   different ways. And that's how we can give rise  to all those different ordering consultants    The origin, so again, going back to  it, so the, the structure of DNA that   familiar double helix structure was discovered in  1950s. And then basically immediately after that,   it was recognized how important it would be  to study DNA sequences in order to understand   the basis of genetics. Over the years, there are  many sort of approaches to sort of analyze it.   The earliest approaches, you couldn't isolate,  you know, you couldn't read off the particular   sequences of A's, C's and G's and T's, you could  just sort of, sort of take a summary and say,   well, in your body, you have approximately a  ratio of this many A's to C's, to G's to T's,   but over time, instead of just getting sort of  a broad ratio, the technology improved where he   can actually read off the specific nucleotides.  One of the major advances from this was led by an   individual doctor, Fred Sanger, and he developed  a protocol that you can actually reliably sequence   DNA at, at, at the time at very high throughput.  What I'm showing here is sort of result of this,   where you would take DNA, you would take DNA  from cells or from the environment or whatnot,   you'd prepare it in a special way,  you would expose it to radiation   and then depending on what the particular  patterns of nucleotides were in the DNA,   we can actually visualize this sort of like taking  a photograph like you would with a film camera   where you would expose it to light, and then it  would blow different colors depending on what was   present there. And then by, I would just sort of  trace off the different bands and that would tell   you what the sequence of DNA was. This works,  this, this protocol was, was really important   for being able to read off the first segments of  DNA. The very first genome sequence comes from a   little virus genome called the bacteria phage,  and it was really sort of a landmark discovery   in order to develop this protocol. The challenge  with it though is on a very good week you could   only sequence maybe 5,000 nucleotides in a row.  Now your genome is 3 billion nucleotides long,   so this would be thousands of weeks of effort not  to sequence one genome. It was just way too slow,   way too expensive, way too cumbersome to apply at  scale. However, over the next, so that was in the   seventies, over the eighties, we saw the rise  of automated sequencing instruments, and then   this really leapt forward in the nineties to the  point where you could basically set up a massive   sequencing facilities that could sequence larger  and larger genomes. In the, in the nineties,   we saw the rise of the first free living organisms  being sequenced. The first was a bacteria called   Haemophilus influenza that was sequenced at the  Institute for Genomic Research, TIGR. In fact,   I happened to work at TIGR. Although this  was a little bit ahead of when I was there.   After the first microbial sequences, we saw the  rise of even larger sequences. We saw a variety   of plant and animal species being sequenced.  There were fruit flies, there were worms,   there were other plants that were sequenced.  These are all recall important model systems.    Fruit flies, for example, can grow in  a test tube, in basically sugar water.   But interestingly, they have very important and  recognizable traits like the colors of their eyes,   the shapes of the wings, so that because you can  grow them so quickly, you can keep track of them,   you can really figure out a lot of their  genetics just through the naked eye.   In fact, some of the first maps of how DNA  were organized, a so-called genetic maps   were developed in the 1920s before even  the structure of DNA was, was recognized   just by a very sort of careful accounting of  how these different traits would be combined   in different generations of fruit flies. And then  eventually this led in the early two thousands to   the first publication of the human genome. This  was really an enormous accomplishment. It was sort   of coordinated through this massive international  effort to be able to be able to sequence parts   of the genome, piece it together computationally,  and then be able to do analysis of that. In fact,   there are actually two publications of the human  genome. One was from this large public effort, the   International Human Genome Consortium. And then  there was another effort actually at a private   company, Solera Genomics, that was, had also  assembled and sequenced the first human genome   for the very first time. So it was really a  landmark achievement in a, you know, in a thousand   years, I'd like to think people remember, this  is one of the great successes of this era, was   the technology was developed to the point where it  can actually go in and read entire human genomes   for the very first time, just there was tremendous  interest to do so way before that, the technology   just did not exist, but now it does. And now we  do it quite routinely. A few years ago, we had   done some analysis about how many genomes had  been sequenced and where the field was heading.   At the time, there were maybe a hundred thousand  genomes that had been sequenced, but we had made   predictions that by the year 2020, we expected  to see many millions of genomes. And I'm very   sort of proud to say that when you look now at  the field, that those predictions have totally   come true. That today there's been more, there's  been several million whole human genomes that have   been sequenced using this great technology to read  off in a very automated and very efficient way.    A lot of this today is done for biomedical  research, where if you're interested in   different diseases, they're sort of,  especially their genetic underpinnings,   you know, very practical, important thing to do is  be able to go in and sequence the genomes. We can   compare the genomes of people with the disease,  to those that do not have the disease. Really   try to isolate, you know, what is it that is  special in the genomes of people with the disease   that can often give you a lot of great clues about   where those diseases come from. It also gives  you great clues about how you might treat them.   Interestingly though, there's many  applications beyond disease research.   A very sort of interesting and fun thing to do,  frankly, is to do your own ancestry analysis.   So if you've ever sent your, your saliva away  for analysis to 23 and Me or other companies,   they're using a lot of the same technologies  that I'm going to talk about here that can read   off snippets of the genome, and then you could  compare your genome to other people in the world,   you know, find your ancestors, find distant  cousins, do lots of interesting things there.    In addition to human genomes, there's lots of  efforts to basically look at all of the major   plant and animal species, all the microbes,  all the fungi, basically every free living   organism on the planet, there's some interest,  there's some interest to do sequencing of it,   especially now that the costs and the efficiencies  have really grew throughout the years. One of the,   one of the amazing things is the  technology for sequencing genomes has,   has continued to advance at really substantial  rates. The way that the human genome was sequenced   was sort of a supercharged version of that  early protocol, would, that had to expose the   DNA to radiation. It works, but it's still kind of  cumbersome, still rather expensive to do at scale,   but there's some very new technologies that  let you do some very remarkable and exciting   things. So one of these comes from a private  company called Oxford Nanopore, and they have a   handheld DNA sequencer, a Nanopore sequencer that  I think is truly state-of-the-art in the field.   So it's a handheld device. It's a little bit  smaller than your iPhone. I usually have, I have   one in my office, but here in COVID days, where  we're all working from home, I don't have it with   me, but it's a, it's a handheld device. And then  inside this device, there's a sensor array. And   then inside of this array there's a what's called  a Nanopore. A Nanopore is a pore, just a tiny hole   in a membrane. The pore is actually manufactured  using a protein that punctures through the   membrane. This creates sort of an electrically  charged, a positive side and a negative side   when we apply electrical force to it. And then as  different molecules pass through this little hole,   we can actually get some sort of electrical  information along the way. So the idea is   that as DNA is going to be passing through this  little tiny hole it'll sort of interact, the DNA   will interact with the pore causing different  levels of resistance. There's a known voltage.   So if you have a different resistance and a  known voltage, you can read out the current.   And the same way that you can read the  current out on the home electronics device,   we can do this as individual molecules of DNA are  passing through one of these very small holes.   The, the sort of the level of sensitivity here  is quite explicit. Whereas, you know, your,   I don't know, your computer will work in terms of  current at maybe a few amps, you know, maybe you   have a refrigerator that draws 50 amps of current,  maybe you have some electronics that draws, you   know, maybe not an entire amp, but, you know, some  fraction of an amp, the level of measurement here   is truly exquisite where we can detect changes as  small as one, 1 trillionth of an amp is the level   of sensitivity that is necessary to actually  sequence DNA. Once we take those measurements,   we can apply a variety of algorithms that can then  go decode the electrical signal data back into the   individual nucleotide sequences. So A's, C's, G's,  T's can be read off more or less as quickly as the   molecule could go in and pass through the pore.  It's quite amazing, it's handheld, it's quite   fast, it's quite inexpensive. I think it's very  easy to imagine in the same way that we all carry   digital cameras and our smart devices. It's not  too unusual to think about how in the near future,   we might all be carrying around DNA sequencers  in our pocket based on this sort of technology.    So in my own, in my own research, as I mentioned,  you know, we apply these different technologies   for a variety of different systems. We apply it  for cancer research. We apply it for agricultural   research. We also look at different bacteria  and fungi to go see, you know, all the different   genomes were around us to be able to really  understand what their genetic makeup is, compare   them. Look at evolution, look at diseases, look at  other sort of characteristics, but it's all sort   of driven around the technology that is available  to be able to sequence DNA. So now that we've sort   of had an introduction, let me pause here and  just ask the audience. Does anyone have any sort   of broad questions about DNA, DNA sequencing, the  human genome before we dive in more specifically   on some of these other projects? Let me pause  here, please go ahead and ask in the chat.    Okay. Well, well, that's great. I guess that  was very understandable. So let me, let's keep   going. So the next door, I really want to focus  it on, has been talk about some of the sequencing   that's been going on at Johns Hopkins related  to the COVID-19 virus. Before we're getting   into the virus specifically, let me introduce a  few concepts. Let me do this in sort of a very,   hopefully easy and familiar way so  that it will be very understandable.    So you may not think about this too often,  but given two sequences, given two sentences,   you can actually very carefully measure how  different sentences are related to each other.   So here's a sentence. What is your favorite color  to wear to the theater? Here's a very similar   sentence. What is your favorite color to wear to  the theatre? And if you notice there's just a few   characters, a few letters, that differ between  one sentence and the other sentence. Here I've   sort of, you know, I've made up this example. One  is written in American spelling. One is written   in British English spelling, but they're both very  recognizable. You can compare them, you know, just   a few sort of letters that, that are different  between these two sentences here. And we can   do this for other sentences as well. If we kind of  use your imagination a little bit, you can imagine   having more or less the same sentence written  in Spanish, some of the words will be exactly   the same. So color in Spanish is C, O, L, O, R,  just like it is in American English, so that's   very recognizable. In other scenarios, you know,  there'll be more characters that are different.   But for all these different sentences  kind of carries the same meaning,   although there are some differences in how those  sentences are spelled out, we can measure those   differences. This is probably not an unfamiliar  concept, but we can do that. You know, a simple   thing to do is basically count how many characters  are different between one sentence and another   sentence, and there's sort of different strategies  for how you can count that. And then once you can   sort of count how many differences are between  one sentence and the other, you can relate them   to each other often in the form of a tree. And  kind of the way to think about this is, you know,   the American and British spelling are more similar  then say the same sentence written out in Spanish.   You can imagine extending this to other sort of  national languages as well. Well, the same way   that we can do this analysis for, you know, for  English and French and Spanish and other sort   of national languages, you can also do exactly  the same sort of analysis at the level of DNA,   except that instead of having, you know you know,  the full alphabet and words and punctuation,   it's basically, it's basically just going to be,  you know, A's, C's and G's and T's, right? Where   we can read off the genome from one sample, we  can read it off from another, we can read it out   from another. It's just going to be A's,  C's, G's and T's with no punctuation.   But we can do the same sort of analysis, where  we just look at the letters, we can compare them,   we can highlight the letters that are the same,  we can look at especially at the letters that   are different across these different  samples. So one very easy thing to do,   is if you have, you know samples from people  that you think might be related to each other,   it's very easy to tell, say, siblings. You know,  brothers and sisters will have very, very, very   similar genomes, you know, because they all share  the same genetic contributions from their mother   and father. They will not be exactly the same.  There will be a lot of differences between them,   but, but, you know, siblings, their genomes will  be a lot more similar, a lot more similar to each   other than they will be to other cousins or, you  know, very distant relatives or, or unrelated   family members. So that's sort of the basis  for, you know, if you've ever used 23 and Me,   and it sort of, you know, alerted you to new  cousins, even distant cousins, this is a very   straightforward and very reliable analysis to  do just by adding up and counting how many of   the nucleotides are the same between, between you  and other people. And sort of another, sort of,   sort of slightly broader context in  the same way that you could compare   and contrast within families, you can do this  over different ethnic regions. So for example,   the genomes of the people from Northern Europe  are more similar to each other than the pe-,   then the genomes of people from Southern Europe  and similarly European genomes are more similar   to each other than they are to say, East Asians.  This is just sort of a fact about if you look   sort of historically about how human populations  have settled over time over the, over eons,   because of the, because of the way the settlements  happened, you just get a lot more similarity in   those groups than you will, as you go across other  groups. And then finally at the broadest context,   in addition to kind of comparing within  families and within different ethnic groups,   we can even compare across species. Where we  can look at say the human genome compared to   other primates, those are very, very similar. And  then we can compare it, say to other mammalian   species like the mouse genome. In the case of  humans and say, chimpanzees, we differ by only,   we, we're about 99 percent identical. We  share 99 percent of our genetic messages   in our genomes are identical in the chimpanzee. In  the case of the mouse genome, obviously it's a lot   more different. We're only about 50 percent  similar, although it's very easy to kind of   recognize important genes in the human genome that  through evolutionary forces are well conserved   in the mouse genome as well. You can, even  though we're obviously very different from mice,   a lot of the basic genes, a lot of the basic  cellular processes about how cells divide and   grow and replicate and transcribe, a lot of  those processes are very similar so that yes,   we can very sort of successfully identify  relationships between human genomes and primate   genomes and mice genomes and many other species as  well. And it's all based on sort of looking at how   many nucleotides, how many characters are the same  or different across all these different species.   So it's a simple concept. There's, there's  actually a lot of sophisticated computational   mathematical work behind it to sort of drive a lot  of specific properties, but hopefully the concept   is very straight forward and very understandable  to all of you right now. So the genome, so,   so one sort of amazing result from this is  if you look at the, the genomes of different   people from say around Europe you could actually  sort of just from the genetic information by   sort of comparing one person's genome to another  person's genome to another person's genome, you   can automatically build essentially a perfect map  of Europe just based on their genetic information.   So on this sort of complicated chart here, all  those, all those characters of different colors   in the middle represents a person whose genome was  sequenced. And then the color represents where,   which country did they come from. And through just  looking at that genetic information and sort of   arranging it, so that genomes that are more  similar to each other are, are sort of clustered   together and genomes that are more distinct are  separated apart, we can basically rebuild a map of   Europe just by looking at the genetic information.  So this is a very straightforward thing to do.   You know, this result here was published  more than 10 years ago. Today, you know, for   ancestry analysis, we have exquisite capability  to basically pinpoint, you know, almost down to   the neighborhood that your family originated  from. What's complicated about this though,   is, you know, you know, often, you know, people  today, there's been a lot of sort of mixing where,   you know, you may have ancestry ancestors from  many different countries. And obviously, you know,   if it's a mixture of ancestries, you know, you're  not going to localize it to one neighborhood,   it's going to be a combination of many places  all at once. But those methods are very mature,   we can do that and we can, you know, sort of  recognize your ancestry with great precision.   That's done you know, many, many millions of  times over a day in some of these companies.   What I really want to focus in on though is  another particular genome that I think is sort   of impacting everyone's lives today in a very,  very acute and profound way. So what I'm showing   you here, this A, C, G, T's is the complete genome  of the SARS-CoV-2 virus genome. It's an RNA virus,   it's about 30,000 nucleotides long, but you can  sort of represent it in the same way where it's A,   C, G, T's about 30,000 times over. It's pretty  amazing to me that something that will fit on one   screen has actually totally altered the course of  humanity. If you think about all of the, you know,   all the lives that have been lost, all the jobs  that have been lost, all the shutdowns that have   been necessary to combat it, all from this one  little, you know, basically a few pages out of   a book have really altered the world. So, you  know, I think there's obvious, it's an obvious   importance as we would want to study this and  wanting to learn a lot about it. At Hopkins, we've   been really interested in this genome basically,  ever since it was first reported. We, there was a   coordinated effort at Hopkins to leap into action,  to develop a strategy, to be able to look at   the genome, to be able to analyze it very quickly.  Look at things like, well, what is the genetic   diversity of it? Where did it come from? Is  it, is it, is the virus mutating over time   in individuals? Is it, and then also how we want  it to be able to sort of map out how it's being   transmitted, you know, across neighbors and being  able to see it and it's, and it's a genetic way.   In the same way that we can sort of draw trees  about how, you know, sentences or people's genomes   are related to each other. You know, what I just  showed you of the, of the viral genome is sort of   a representation of one of the genomes. There  is a small amount of genetic diversity there,   and in the same way we can compare, I don't  know, American spelling to British spelling,   we can use that same sort of analysis to  determine the origins of where a particular   strain of the virus originated from. Now it's  well, now well understood that the original   transmissions all occurred in Wuhan, China,  but as it sort of moved around the world,   it's taken on different dialects, if you will, in  the same way, you can have a different dialect of,   of say English, we can see those same sorts of  mutations in the viral genome. So we leapt into   action. There's quite a lot of information that  was known about the, about the genome, when we   started again, it's about 30,000 nucleotides long,  it encodes, it does some very sort of fancy tricks   in terms of its genome structure where it actually  has more gene products than actual genes that   our present. It does some complicated,  molecular biology to make that positive   and it in a sort of, you know, very recognizable,  which other genomes that is most similar to. And   then there's also been a lot of information that's  been developed about how the transmissions occur.   The virus itself, those particles, you know, as  we breathe them out or it's otherwise exposed to   them, they'll get sort of brought into our lungs  and other tissues. On the surfaces of a lot of our   tissues, there's a very important protein that  is expressed called ACE2 and it turns out that   the virus is very sneaky and very clever. It has  figured out how to, how the virus can dock to this   ACE2 protein. That's one of the most important  interactions that take place in the transmission.   Once it docks there is other proteins  in particular, something called TMPRSS2   that's that sort of help for the virus to be  brought into the cells. Once inside the cells,   it's, the virus will sort of, sort of hijack some  of the machinery inside of the cells to make many,   many copies of the virus. And along the way,  this will cause a lot of damage to the operation   of those cells. So there's, there's this notion of  viral load where there's a certain amount of viral   particles that you're exposed to, different  people will expose different amounts of ACE2,   those receptors that will be used for binding.  Different people will present different amounts   of that TMPRSS2 that will help mediate the virus  being brought into you. I think this largely   explains why different age groups, different  ethnicities seem to have slightly different   rates of infection, where they'll be exposed,  even if they're exposed to the same viral load,   they, they may express different levels of  ACE2 or other important proteins that will   sort of influence how effectively the virus  will be brought into the cells and ultimately   be replicated inside of them. So we were very  interested to map this out and sort of look at   how the virus was mutating over time. So the  initial sequencing capacity at Johns Hopkins   was established very early in, in very early  March. Now, obviously we needed to do this   in a very safe way and also in a very sort of  accurate way. We didn't want to introduce any   errors or having any mistakes in the process,  but we were able to do this very early in March.   Early in March, and then into April, we  were able to really ramp this up where we   could start to do larger and larger numbers of  samples. And at this point, we've at Hopkins,   we've sequenced hundreds of viral genomes, we're  at kind of a steady state where we're sequencing   on the order of about 50 genomes a week so  that we can keep track of it. One kind of   major result is the genome is by and large,  very stable. There are very few mutations,   very few new mutations that arise. Most of the  mutations, basically all the mutations that we   have seen have just been sort of characteristic  mutations from viruses that have been transmitted   through different countries of origin. So  the here is a sort of a summary result of   the different sequences that we've mapped. In the  same way that you can build trees of sentences or   ancestry, we can build up trees about how the  different viral genomes are related to each   other. The complicated thing here is there's such  little diversity that over the 30,000 nucleotides,   there may only be a handful of nucleotides that  are different. So you get these very sort of   dense clusters in the trees where the genomes are  basically identical. So you can go to that URL,   bit.ly/nextstrain-jhu, if you're interested to  sort of look at an interactive visualization,   where you can dive in deep on the strain and  look at how the viruses that we've sequenced are   all related to each other. One major result from  this is we're very interested in the origins of   these viruses. It could have been that there was  a single introduction to the area, but instead of   that, what we've noted is that most likely there  are multiple introductions to the area. In the   sense that, of the viruses that we've been able to  sequence, some of them very are very, very similar   or identical to other viruses that are known to  be transmitted in Europe. Some of them are known   to be transmitted around South America. Some of  them have been known to be basically directly   transmitted from China where the, where the virus  originated from. So this is not that surprising at   this point, there's been other sort of researchers  that have looked at other metropolitan areas   and they kind of come to the same conclusion that  in these large urban centers, there's just a lot   of travel, there's a lot of interactions, which  this leads to the possibility of transmissions.   That's sort of interesting to note, although from  a disease management standpoint is, is complicated   because we just, there's just so much travel and  I think the right thing to do is really severely   restrict travel so that there are just fewer  opportunities for the virus to be transmitted.   So in the kind of main conclusion is there's  multiple introductions. Some of the patients   that we had sequenced had travel history, so  it was kind of understandable where it came   from. Although at this point, you know, most of  the transmissions that we're seeing are local,   where it's, you know, within a community, within  neighborhoods, we see those transmission events   occur. In terms of the virology, there's been  very few mutations that have arisen and of those   mutations, there doesn't seem to be any really  strong signal, in that some viruses are more   pathogenic than others, are more  easy to transmit than others,   they're all kind of by and large equivalent to  each other. Now we're very sort of interested   and a little bit concerned that as vaccines start  to become available, that will encourage the virus   to start mutating, to avoid the vaccine response.  So it's very important that we can maintain these   sequencing projects, so we can sort of keep an  eye on how quickly the viruses are mutating.   And then hopefully, you know, if those mutations  do arise, we'll be well-placed to address them   by potentially developing multiple vaccines at  the same time. So now, and then in addition,   we're sort of watching all these transmissions and  we're just very interested, you know, if there are   major events, we're very interested to see  how those transmissions are occurring between   different people, hopefully keep track on and keep  close tabs on the virus so we can limit its impact   as quickly as possible. Okay. So that sort  of takes us through the first major story   I see here on the chat. There's a bunch of  questions. So let me let me dive in here. So   first question from bill, how much does it cost to  sequence a, a full human genome? Great question.   It varies depending on the technology and the  level of detail that you want to use. The most   widely used technology for  sequencing a genome comes from a   company called Illumina. Their headquarters is  actually in San Diego, they're a US-based company.   Using a illumine-based sequencing and doing  it at large-scale, there is a volume discount.   The cost of sequencing a human genome is about a  thousand dollars, or maybe a bit less these days.   There are some other technologies out there that  offer that, that promise to do this cheaper.   If you do, if you can do a lot of human  genomes with that Oxford Nanopore technology,   the cost per genome is actually below a thousand  dollars. Although you have to commit to many tens   of thousands of genomes at the same time. Second  question from Joey, what are the percentages of   differences between human genomes across ethnic  groups roundabout? Yeah, this is a great question.   It is actually counterintuitive. So if you look  at a particular you know, position in the genome,   you know where it's either A, C, G, T, there is no  single position in the genome that is exclusively   in one ethnic group or another. There  is no nucleotide, you know, there is no   a mutation that makes you, you know, Caucasian  or African, or Asian, you know, there's, there's,   you know, there's just there's just enough  diversity, there's enough sort of intermixing,   there is no single nucleotide that is exclusively  unique to one ethnic group or another.   However, the patterns in which the nucleotides  are used over the course of one genome to the next   are quite different. There are definitely sets of  patterns, sets of mutations, sets of polymorphisms   that are much more common in say, Europeans  compared Asians, compared to Africans. In sort   of round numbers, between any two people on the  planet, we differ by about 4 million nucleotides.   Although within, people within an ethnic group  may differ by a few million and then across ethnic   groups, maybe a few extra millions. So there is a  sizable number of differences as you look across   ethnic groups, although at a given nucleotide, you  know, there is no there is no single nucleotide   that is, that is exclusively found in one ethnic  group or another. Next question from Bethine,   oh, what might the applications be for a pocket  sequencer be in the future, will this technology   play a role in precision medicine. Uh,  yes, I think it will play an important   role in precision medicine, in fact that's  kind of what the next story is all about   and what will be the applications for a pocket  sequencer in the future? Well, in the same way   that we all carry around essentially professional  cameras in our smartphones, you know, I think   there'll be basically limitless to carrying around  a DNA sequencer. Maybe not for everyone initially,   but as it becomes cheaper and cheaper, I think  there could be a lot of interest to do so.   Today there are already something like this  at sort of major transportation centers. If   you remember, sort of sadly, if you remember  back in the early two thousands, there are all   those cases of anthrax being transmitted through  the mail, at this point at major transportation   centers and in fact, I've seen these personally,  inside the D inside the DC Metro, a system,   there are the machines that kind of sit in  the corner and they're just sniffing the air.   And what they're doing is they're doing real-time  surveillance, looking for major pathogens   that may be present there. Other important  applications today is for food safety. You know,   there's been throughout the years, a number of  recalls, especially around like lettuce, and   other vegetables that grow out in the field, they  get contaminated well, instead of, of waiting for   people to get sick, maybe we can bring sequencing  capacity to some of these fields and these farms   so that we can ensure food safety, that's another  important application. You know, other ones could   include for forensics, for ancestry, just  for fun. You know, if you've ever been out   and you see a tree and you're not quite sure  what sort of tree it is, or you catch a fish,   you're not quite sure what type of fish it is.  Imagine if you could just touch your sensor to it,   and then seconds later, get a read off about what  sort of species it is. We're not quite there yet,   but I think these different technologies are not  that far away, but all of this could be possible.   You know, if you've ever seen that show Star Trek,  where you carry a tricorder, you can kind of do   these measurements on the fly. We're actually  not that far away from when we'll be able to,   to, to have a tricorder-like device  take all these measurements for it.   Okay. Next question from Fred, how does the  genomics of the virus relate to the development   of the vaccines? Great question. So the good news  is, is for COVID-19, the virus is quite stable and   the hope is from all of us, is that a single  vaccine will be effective essentially against   all the strains that are known in the world.  This is quite different from say the flu virus.   If you, if you know, you have to get a seasonal  flu vaccine, you might hear things like H1N1   or different, or H3N2 right? So in the case of the  flu, it's organized into what are called segments,   and there are eight different segments and  each of those different segments have different   genomes associated with it. So the reason  that we need a seasonal vaccine, is every   year there'll be a different combination of, of  one of many different segments, all get sort of   put together and you need a unique vaccine to sort  of effectively treat that, otherwise it can escape   the immune system. So the hope is with COVID-19  a single vaccine will be effective for all cases.   But the thing that we're really worried  about really interested to keep an eye on   is, is as soon as we start presenting  vaccines to people at large numbers,   this will sadly encourage the virus to start  mutating more rapidly so that it can escape that   that vaccine treatment. So that's, that's why we  really want to keep very close eye on it so that   we can respond to this in real time and hopefully  keep track of that diversity that's present.    And then the last question here from Peter,  how did genetic therapies like CRISPR work?   They don't edit the DNA in every cell in the  body, do they? Right? So, so there's a couple   of things here to unpack. So CRISPR is this very,  very powerful technology for editing DNA. In fact   some of the, two of the inventors of the CRISPR  technology were awarded the Nobel prize this year   as sort of a sort of testament to how  important it is. This is a revolutionary tech-,   this is a truly revolutionary technology  because it, it lets us, you know, edit,   let's us make arbitrary changes in DNA. There  are some older protocols for changing DNA,   but they're very limited. They're very sort of  imprecise, but with CRISPR, we can say, yep,   we want to change this particular nucleotide at  this particular site from an A to a C or to a G   or to a T, just gives us exquisite control  almost at the same level of control as we   have over software where I can go in at a  piece of software and change the behavior   quite dramatically. It's a revolutionary  technology, but it and, and it is now,   you know, there's a lot of ethical considerations  about how it can be used in humans. There is one   report from China where it was used in embryos.  It was, it was used to genetically engineer,   some modifications in embryos, as far as we  can tell it, those babies are now doing fine.   Although the sort of scientists  there is in a lot of trouble   because they did not really have the right ethical  guidelines in place to be able to do this editing.   The big challenge for using this kind of more  broadly, especially for diseases of adulthood like   cancer is, as you know Peter correctly points out,  is that you have to deliver the, the, the CRISPR   proteins and the CRISPR technology has to  be delivered to every single cell that is,   that needs to be treated. So your body's made of  about 10 trillion cells. So if, you know, if you   had a genetic disorder where you needed to treat  every cell, you would have to somehow figure out a   way to deliver it to every cell. I think that's a  really hard problem. The good news is in your, in   your body, it's sort of organized where you have  so-called STEM cells, and these are the cells that   keep dividing and keep generating new cells. So  the idea is if we could somehow deliver the CRISPR   proteins and technology to those STEM cells,  it may be possible to treat the source and then   eventually that would trickle out to all the cells  in your body. That's a really hard problem. That's   going to require years and years of research.  Today though, the CRISPR technology is really,   really important. Not, not so much for adult  genetic disorders, but things that, you know,   that arise during early development and it's  also a great tool for basic research. You know,   anytime we're working, you know, we're looking  at plants or very primitive animals like worms   or flies and we just are very interested in what  happened if we could change the DNA there. Now,   finally, we have the technology that we can go  in and change it with, with exquisite precision,   we can actually pick and choose which nucleotides  are going to be change, even out of the billions   of billions of nucleotides that are there. Okay.  So thank you for those questions. Let's, let's   kind of keep moving through the presentation. I  think it will address some of these questions as   we move through. So the next topic I want  to talk about is not infectious disease,   but sort of more genetic disease, in particular,  talk about cancer, talk about breast cancer.   So breast cancer is, is a major disease. It's  a major cause, a cause of death in women. About   one in eight women will develop it over their  lifetime. Family history is, is, is by far one   of the most important factors. It's reported  about 20 percent of cases, but this is probably   underestimating the true prevalence, because  you may not know about cases that arise in   your family and then also some of the risk factors  for breast cancer just may not present themselves   you know, on your father, on your Paternal line,  there are sort of more specifically at risk for   women. Within high risk families, it is now  standard practice to screen for mutations in a,   in a few known risk factor genes. The most famous  of which is something called BRCA1. This is a,   this is a, it's a cancer gene that if there are  mutations there, can really enable a large scale   mutations in the genome. For women that, that know  that they have these highly important mutations   there's a lot of sort of strategies that you can  use to manage the cancer. Number one would be   more regular screening. In some cases you can  even elect to go through prophylactic surgery   to minimize the possibility of developing cancer.  It's pretty gruesome to think about, but you know,   sometimes that's really necessary. Some of these  mutations basically are a 99 percent chance or   worse that you'll go on to develop breast cancer,  so it's really important to stay ahead of.   What's, what's sort of maybe not as well  understood is yes, breast cancer seems to be   highly, have a highly strongly genetic component,  some of them genetics are well understood and like   mutations of BRCA1, but the big problem is,  is that only explains a very small percent   of breast cancer cases. That only explains maybe  one to 2 percent of cases through these well-known   breast cancer risk reveals. What that suggests  to me is there's a lot of sort of genetics that   have yet to be discovered and that's been a  major focus of my research group knowledge   to apply some of these new genomic technologies  to study these mutations in more great detail.   One thing that is known for sure is that  cancer, breast cancer and other cancers,   are a disease of the genome. Where  through a variety of processes,   additional mutations will occur in the genome.  This can be individual nucleotides that can   change. This can also be larger mutations that  occur. In some cases, entire chromosomes are added   on, chromosomes are fused together, all other  sorts of major rearrangements to take place.   It's, it's sort of almost, in some cases  like there's been a complete scrambling   of the billions of nucleotides that are, that  are present there. In sort of broad terms,   the more scrambled the genome, the worse the  outcome there often is for the patient. Where   many of the sort of normal processes that the cell  goes through will be disrupted because of this   widespread scrambling. So that much is known.  But one thing that is surprisingly less known   is that exactly mapping out the nature of the  scrambling, these so-called structural variations.   The protocols and technologies that are now used  for clinical care only give you sort of a very low   resolution picture of the genome. And, and because  of that, we're probably missing a lot of important   information that we hope to address through  the technologies and work that we have not.   So, to get started on this sort of analysis, we,  we first spoke, it first started within a cancer   model system, this is called the cancer cell line.  In particular, we studied this cancer cell line   called SK-BR-3. This is a widely used cell line  for something called her Her2-amplified breast   cancer. So Her2 is a gene that is responsible  and drives a lot of the growth of cells. What   happens in some breast cancer patients is this  gene is amplified, which will tend to make those   cells grow very, very, very rapidly. There's a  couple of other key receptor genes that influence   growth. You may have heard of ER, PR positive  breast cancers. This is estrogen receptors or   progesterone receptors. So there's these three  receptors that are really important for breast   cancer. There's also something called triple  negative breast cancer, where none of those   three receptors are amplified. But the cells  we're looking at come from a Her2-amplified   breast cancer cell line called SK-BR-3. I'll save  you the details, but to actually do the analysis,   we had to develop some very sophisticated  software, using some very cutting edge techniques   in artificial intelligence and machine learning  in order to be able to capture, be able to   match up the sequences we could derive from  this cancer genome or other cancer genomes to   the reference human genome, to detect mutations.  I'll save you the details, but there's, we've done   a lot of work to develop those new algorithms and  quantitative techniques to do those measurements.   Here's sort of a map of the changes that we were  able to observe in this one cell line. In a normal   cell, there would be kind of no lines here.  What we're drawing are all the places where the   chromosomes had been fused together or otherwise  large-scale rearrangements had taken place.   And these are the highlights, but basically using  these new single molecule sequencing technologies   like Oxford Nanopore, like I mentioned, we can  find tens of thousands of additional variants   that had been previously been missed. We went  back and we did a lot of validation for them   to confirm our ability to detect them. And  it was, it was an enormous improvement in   sensitivity and accuracy over any other genomic  sequencing technologies that are available.   From this we can detect many genes that were  disrupted. In fact, we can detect many scenarios   where genes were actually fused together that  would just sort of have a very sort of altered   behaviors inside of the cells because of  that gene fusion. We could also sort of,   sort of piece together which mutations occurred  earlier or later in the cancer. Basically we can   unwind the clock to identify some of the very  first mutations that took place. Those are going   to be the ones that drive the development of  the cancer. Those are the ones that are most   important to actually develop treatments for, most  of the others were so-called passenger mutations.   That was done on the cell line and since about  two years ago and then since then, I've been   really focused on taking these technologies and  moving them into the clinic. And the way we've   done this is in collaboration for researchers  at Johns Hopkins, and then also some researchers   at New York and Northwell Health Institution, as  well as Cold Spring Harbor. From patients' tumors,   we've been able to dissect them and then what we  do is develop what are called a tumor organoids.   These are cells that we can grow that are sort  of like mini organs growing from the patient that   allows us to do a lot of analysis on them. We can  expose them to different potential chemotherapies   to see how they respond. We can also do a lot of  detailed genetic sequencing from that. It would   be very difficult or impossible to do directly  from the tumor. From those organoids, we did   sequencing using several different techniques  so that we can really sort of carefully look at,   you know, what, what sorts of mutations could  we detect using new sequencing technology that   were not recognizable using older technologies.  Sadly, these are the technologies that are used   most widely for clinical care. If you've ever had  to be sequenced for a cancer panel, it's going to   be using these older technologies, especially from  this company Illumina. So here, we're looking at   how we can advance on this using new technologies.  There's a lot of new software development...Here's   sort of one of the major results from this,  which is a mutation in that famous BRCA1 gene   that was only detectable using the new sequencing  technology that was completely invisible to the   older technology. There's a number of  sort of technical reasons why that is,   but I think this is just a really important  Testament where in some cases we may be,   we may even know which genes to look at. We've  just been looking at them in the completely   wrong way, so that we've been missing a lot of  important variations that are present there.   This was detected in one of the  patients that we were looking at,   and the study that we're doing now is we're  trying to apply these same sorts of technologies   in families that have very high rates of cancer.  So here's, what's called a pedigree where from a   single family we can map out all the individuals  that had cancer versus those that did not. All   the ones that have those darkened rectangles are  family members that have cancer. This family here   sadly has an extraordinarily high rate  of, of early onset cancers, breast cancer,   prostate cancer, melanoma, and ovarian cancer.  This is highly unusual. This is a very atypical,   which suggests to me, suggests to our partner  clinicians, that we think is happening is there   some very strong genetic risk factor that  is present in this family that has yet to   be identified? So we're actively in the  process of using those new technologies   to sequence the genomes of these family members.  So we can really try to pinpoint and isolate   what are the, what are the risk factors that we  had overlooked, hopefully give some new insight   to them. Once we've identified those risk factors,  we can then go screen additional family members,   especially the younger family members that have  not yet developed cancer to see if they also carry   those risk factors as well, and hopefully provide  better treatments for them. So let me, let me,   let me just very quickly tell you about a couple  of things that are coming up next. And then at   the end here, we can take some final questions.  So what's coming next? First thing is, as we   continue to advance on the sequencing technology,  that Oxford Nanopore technology has some very   sophisticated capabilities where in real time as  individual molecules of DNA are being sequenced,   we can decide in real time, if this is not a  molecule that we're interested in, we can reverse   the voltage on the Nanopore, eject that molecule,  and then allow a new DNA molecule to enter.   To make this possible, my lab had developed some  very specialized and very sophisticated software   that can decide in real time, based  on electrical signal measurements,   if this is a molecule that we're interested in.  Using this technology, we were able to do a genome   wide analysis of all of the known genes that are  associated with hereditary cancers, such that we   could study them much more quickly and much more  cost-effectively. Our real hope here is to be able   to develop and improve cancer panel that we can  deploy at very large scales inside the clinic,   so that we can get a better assessment  of genetic risks, if possible then.   In addition to being able to sort of evaluate  in real time human DNA, we can also do this to   look at microbial DNA that is passing through the  Nanopore. It turns out that microbes are basically   on every surface. Most of them are totally  harmless, but obviously if there's pathogenic   microbes that are present or in the case  of RNA, if there are COVID-19 viral genomes   that are intermixed with human RNA, you know, we  basically want to be able to eject the human DNA,   RNA as quickly as possible, so that we can  then go back and examine all of the non-human   sequences that are, are there as well. So that's  something that we're actively developing. And I   think this is going to be really transformative to  the field where we can do this analysis very, very   quickly in real time. Another thing that we're  moving towards is increasingly larger data sets,   where we are going to be looking over not just a  handful of genomes, but over tens of thousands,   hundreds of thousands of millions of genomes.  To make this practical and possible, we're going   to be exploiting a lot of cloud computing  technologies. And I'm involved in two major   projects using cloud computing technologies for  large-scale population by analysis. One is called   the anvil, one is called galaxy. And basically  we're building an entire ecosystem where we have   large data sets, large numbers of computers, large  software tools, all integrated so that we can do   this very sophisticated analysis over millions and  millions of genomes very efficiently. And then the   final technology that we're interested in, going  back to some of the questions were heard about,   are how can we use that CRISPR-Cas9 technology you  know, for the forces of good to improve people's   lives and improve the world around us. As a sort  of an early example of this, working with our   collaborators, we're very interested in a variety  of plant species. What I'm showing you here   is sort of a genetic cousin to a tomato plant.  And this is the flower that basically all of   the members of this family make. The key thing  to notice here is that always has five petals,   those five dark regions, every, every single  individual, the species always makes five petals.   However, through a bit of genetic engineering  through a bitter CRISPR-Cas9 technology,   we're able to genetically modify the plant, so now  that it makes seven petals. We knew exactly which   mutations we needed to introduce. We knew exactly  how to do it. This is completely harmless to the   plant. It's just sort of a testament to how much  precision we have in order to be able to do this.    Obviously we're interested in doing more than  change the shapes of the flowers. We're also very   interested to how we can improve the nutritional  content, the production of many plant and animal   species moving forward, in addition to use this  technology to treat disease. So just to sum up,   genomics is increasingly important in modern life.  We can map out your ancestors, your relatives. We   can develop a lot of technology to improve crops  and other foods. We can rapidly identify viruses   and other pathogens. We can identify a disease  risk, cancer risk, and for other genetic diseases.   Ultimately though, we're just moving into  this era where we have a lot of detailed   information about genomes, such that we can very,  very carefully understand them. And in some cases,   even safely manipulate them. A good example is  how we were able to change the shape of the flower   just by editing the few nucleotides that were  present in the genome. It was a perfectly safe   thing to do, but just is a testament to  how much control and precision we have.   To do this, I obviously didn't do this alone in  my own group and I have a lot of great researchers   that helped me with this. Also a lot of great  friends and collaborators at Johns Hopkins and   a lot of other institutions around the world that  have really made this, all this research possible.   With that, I'll thank you and I think we have  time for maybe one or two real quick questions.   Otherwise you can find me on Twitter, you can  find me online. Okay. So thank you. Maybe here's   a quick question from Claire, given that we  have these inhibitor drugs, do you think these   will have any effects on the virus? Yes. In fact,  that is one of the sort of things that is sort of   undergoing some investigation is because there  seems to be this relationship between how much   viral virus particles you're exposed to and how  much of the ACE proteins are being expressed,   how much does docking plate taking place. Yes,  that is one of the promising avenues is to   see if we can disrupt that interaction between  the virus and the ACE proteins. And then   the last sort of question is, is that I have time  for it from Christine, how genetically different   is the SARS virus from the previous versions  that we've seen? This is a totally novel virus   in the sense that it has a very distinct  species, but if you build up that family   tree of how the different genomes are related  to, it is very closely related to other SARS   virus genomes. If you remember, there was a  bit of an outbreak, maybe it was 15 years ago,   although fortunately, that outbreak was a lot  more controlled and did not spread nearly as   far. So thank you very much. I'm out of time  for today, but you can find me on Twitter.   I'm very active there. Otherwise I look forward to  other Hopkins at Home's events in the near future.   Thanks everybody. Have a great  day. We'll see you again soon. 