 Whitney Espich: Hi, I'm Whitney Espich, the CEO of the MIT Alumni Association and I hope you enjoy this digital production created for alumni and friends like you. Pam: welcome to MIT faculty forum online. I am Pam Belluck. Today is sponsored by MIT credit union, and MIT's Sloan executive education. As a reminder, we welcome your questions during the chat. Alumni can use the Q&A future found on your full bar and we will get to as many questions as we can. We are very excited to hear today from Krystyn Van Vliet, a PhD from the glass of -- class of 2000 two. Provost and Professor in the Department of tarot science and engineering and biological engineering. She began her service as the associate Provost in the fall of 2017 and has been on faculty since 2004. As associate Provost, her responsibilities include Institute space management, nonfederal sponsors of MIT research and education, and technology transfer. In the lab, professor Krystyn Van Vliet 's group studies material behavior at the us into mechanics, physics, and biology. A link to her full bio can be found in the chat window. Welcome, professor. In the brief time we have with you today, we are hoping to hear at least a little bit about your current research and your thoughts on this very unusual year for MIT students and MIT research community. Thank you so much. Professor Van Vliet: thank you. I am happy to be with all of you today. Thank you for the time for everything you're doing 22 -- to chat with us. I thought what I would share is a little bit about how did I end up at M.I.T. in the first place. Some of you who are here today have been former students of mine. Some of you have never met me. I thought I would give you a little background and talk about what I do at MIT really. Pam gave a brief bio but the day to day operations in normal times and also in these pandemic times require a little more explanation. I'm certainly open to any questions on that. And give us a sense at what is next at MIT particularly as I think about the research and innovation path for the scope of work I will share with you today. I am very excited about that. First, how did I end up at MIT in the first place? This is a view of the country in the U.S., if you grew up on the East Coast and never left, you think about this as pre-much the map of the country of the world. I am guilty of being one of those people. I was born in New Jersey in the garden part of the Garden State. I lived there until I went to college. I worked in various capacities and I had many jobs and one of the things I enjoyed was working on a farm. It happened to be a Rutgers Agriculture extension farm. I did not participate in the research. I was there to write up awesome machines like this. I think I really thought of farmers as a creative engineers and problem solvers will stop they knew how to build and repair this equipment, think about the crop rotation, and I was all in. I really enjoyed it even though it was hard work will stop -- hard work. Then I went to college in Providence. I was doing experiments like this and that is when I fell in love with research. I had great faculty advisors. They were fantastic mentors. They really instilled in me a love of mechanical behavior of materials. I did not know what that meant. This was a different kind of machine. I did not have that kind of high school experience. I learned in college hands on all income a work in the lab for all of the summers that I could, until I went to grad school. It was a tremendous experience. I cannot say enough about how it was to really take responsibility for success or failure's of your own research project. I went to graduate school at MIT and enjoyed that experience, continued to learn about behavior from a tremendous community at MIT, multiple departments, really enjoyed the experience but did not think I wanted to become a professor, graduated before 9/11, its own prices, and considered several career options. In the end, fortunate to have the opportunity to do the postdoc at a children's hospital, where learned a lot of new things, more than I gave back to the patient supervisors that I had there, and then came back to MIT since 2004. I have been in Cambridge ever since, with minor caveats and twists as my research program has grown. The favorite thing I have at MIT is my research group. I love working with the folks in the lab, whether they are undergrads doing their first research project, to very experienced research scientists who worked with me for over a decade and all of the graduate and student learning in between. That is what is getting me out of bed to do all of the things you need to do to run a successful research group, raise money, and contribute to the Institute community life, it is having a great research group, to identifying the problems and tackling them through crop up -- collaborations. One collaboration that developed over the past 10 years now for my group is a team that I also co-allegiance -- co-lead in Singapore. I have a team in Boston and one in Singapore. They have time -- a time difference depending on the time of year. It takes a lot of collaboration and understanding different cultures and a tremendous opportunity for me. The first time as part of an MIT research project, I had no idea where it was on the world map but it has become a second home and a part of research experience as far as my -- as well as my family life. With that brief introduction, I want to talk about what I really do it MIT. There are two main buckets of work I do it MIT. The first is I serve an administrative role. As a service opportunity, a time when you take parts of your career -- I do not actively teach in the classroom. I record classes for next year. I do not get to interact with students because my day is filled with a lot of activities to help the rest of MIT run well. I have enjoyed it very much and I certainly enjoy working with our Provost, Marty Schmidt, learning from him on that. My role has two buckets of activity in that administrative space. One is the campus and this includes our MIT buildings being built right now, such as the College of computing and design or MIT nano that just opened a couple of Octobers ago, or the new space opening up with a lot of activity and new housing for graduate students. It also involves our off-campus research sites, the property release around campus, renovating the beautiful building where my lab is, 1900 vintage but still does cutting-edge research. There are a lot of details and thinking about the space, strategic and tactical, for the Institute. The second part I work on is called the office of strategic alliances and technology transfer. This is a new office at MIT developed out of the ideas that are Vice President for research and our Provost, Marty Schmidt had, on changes the Institute needed to make in order to address the changing funding landscape and operations on how we do research at MIT. They got input from a lot of people. At MIT and outside of MIT, and driven by this desire to serve better, to work on those engagements with the outside world, it could be a big company, a small company, another country, this office was set up. I helped with directors and technology transfer, strategic transactions, so that is the lawyer part, and corporate relations. That is a great team as well. What I have learned from this Institute service is yes, it does take time management and dedication, but you need to find it fun. It should not be a chore. It has been fun for me despite the problems that need solving now and in the past because I have great teams that I work with on the campus side. I'm happy to answer more questions about that. But I thought, what I really do it MIT is I get to do research. Because part of the deal is your in an MIT community, you should help that community operate, I'm willing and I also enjoy doing the Institute service. So what is my research? It comes from really trying to understand more about the world around me. Those of us who grew up as materials engineers, you see a world of materials. Why is it made out of this and how is it made out of this? Could it be made out of something different or made in a better way? You start to become observant of the materials around you. I got intrigued by how does the mechanical behavior of these materials, Houston for strong or resistant to breaking they are, to the chemistry of those materials. Maybe the pH around them, maybe the temperature speeding up a chemical reaction. That coupling for mechanics inside materials and material interfaces, including biological cells, became very interesting to me. It sounded hard and complex and something I knew very little about. What I wanted to do to answer those questions was to not only experiment only competition modeling, approaches to talk to each other. My PhD experience at MIT included both experiments and competition, so I became very comical with the idea could design better experiments if I could model them first, and I could understand my experience better if I could simulate the outcomes. The back-and-forth has been very help -- very helpful for me and connecting concept that might not be obviously connected. What are some of those concepts? When is there is coupling between chemistry and mechanics between cells and the other materials they interact with. It could be a drug, it could be a material you engineered to make the cells do what you want for medical outcome. These biological interfaces are complex, difficult to model, and intriguing to study. That is really the inspiration for our work. We also study complex materials, often complex polymers that have biotech applications but maybe never interact with a cell. I had a student graduate -- or actually is graduating later this week, whose thesis was on designing materials that could behave just like the brain in terms of mechanical -- but never used for culture. Using that same thing to design a list of attacks the brain when other high rates of interest -- of injury, such as an impact with another person or another helmet for another wall. A third area where materials that have no biotech application but help us tease out this between chemistry and mechanics. It is still important and interesting systems. Those could be fuel cells, materials used in energy, and the coupling is between mechanics and a special kind of chemistry called electrochemistry. Cells undergo electrochemistry but we do not use the same language always as we talk about the different application spaces. I am very fortunate to have a group that gets to work on it. Take a deeper dive. What I'm showing you is snapshots from a movie where I had a talented DHT student willing to help answer the question, when you have a single stem cell, from an adult, from your bone marrow, you and I can donate these stem cells to other people. If I just watch that one stem cell divide, does it give rise to those that are just like themselves or visit the progeny of the family grows. The reason we were studying that carefully is because stem cells have been considered for cell therapy for many years. These particular cells for bone marrow, it is a bit of a misnomer. They are not all stem cells and not all working as intended in cell therapy. We wanted to understand, maybe part of the issue is because when cells are forced to grow outside the body, they actually start to diversify and become heterogeneous. There is one cell divided and it has become two, then four, then eight. So forth. You see a doubling over here. Whoops. Sorry. To the right, you see another colony of cells growing. You're watching human cells taken from human bone marrow. You can see a colorful diversity. What this graduate student did is to work with a team of undergraduate researchers and figure out ways to identify the cells by generation. What you see here is the oldest cells are yellow, the youngest cells are purple. You can see the transition from warm colors to cold colors as the colony grew. When you stare at this and little longer, and we start at it for a long time, you start to see other differences in the colony like the larger cells look a little larger to you. The yellow cells. You can show these data this way. This is a lineage tree. You watch -- you watch the first on the top is red. Then it gave rise to two twins. Those gave rise to two twins, and so forth. You have a lineage tree of Prodigy that came from a single cell and up to this point, it looks textbook. Cells divide and they gave rise to two more cells and so forth. The width of these lines is how big the cells get in the process of dividing. Once you get past day for, what the student observed here and in many other experiments is you had some cells that never divided anymore. They stopped dividing and they got larger and larger. They were left behind in that run the love the cell population. We have gone on to study and understand what that might the in terms of being able to use effect to it -- those cells effectively in a variety of contexts. This work is published. This shows you we observed header -- heterogeneity of size of cells in many different experiments and we can codify that in image analysis. But they all came from bone marrow. They may have in other experiments come from the brain. We see cells that come from the brain as well. Part of the challenge in getting heterogeneity to go away is to recognize, what is too simple about the culture conditions we use in a lab or in a hospital compared to these native tissue environments, your bone marrow or brain or another tissue and cell source? We have learned about that by thinking about these organs, interfaces for the cells, as complex materials. This has got us into moving toward how do I think about cells in terms of using cells as medicine, not just something to study in the lab, because of heterogeneity in the subpopulation is interesting, but how do I control and understand it so I can take cells that could be from the blood for a cancer treatment or could be from the bone marrow for a cartilage repair of your knee, and put them into a patients so they are able to act as little drug factories and repair the -- prepare the patient for me. The cells could come or go from brain tissue or from blood and bone marrow. It depends on the disease and what you are trying to address. We worked on various aspects of these because the challenges are common, that the approaches and understanding we need to have -- And the target indication or disease. One thing we have learned is if you think about trees in a forest, you look at a forest and you know it is all the same type of tree but there is a variation among trees may be due to the age and may be due to new tree and conditions. You can still recognize the forest. But you do not think much about heterogeneity. That is very true in cell therapy. There is variation from person to person in the type of cells you have available to give for a cell therapy treatment, and the ability of your body to respond to a cell therapy treatment. We have developed several different technologies in collaboration with many really dedicated team's for over the past 10 years to deal with that. There are a few different approaches and we summarized them like this. If you think about the fact that you're getting cells from human, and if you take the cells and try to expand the amount of the body, you will get heterogeneity in that population. You could put them into the human and it can make it safe but a minute have the effect you're hoping for. What if you develop rather brute force even if it looks elegant, to expand the cells, except that they will be heterogeneous, and sort them to get the cells you want to cook -- put them back into that patient. That is a sorting approach and we have developed those. A better approach, because you can see the inherent with in this process, you see a fraction of the cells in this -- expanding, is to figure out, what is the source of that heterogeneity. If I understand that well enough, can I engineer and environment allowing the cells to expand while still being functionally all the same so they can go back into the patient. That is an approach we sometimes call priming of the cell. I developed the approaches in collaboration with Singapore and MIT. One of the approaches I show you comes out of the lab -- election will -- electrical engineering and bioengineering and MIT. He loves to concentrate samples. We started to work together on separating various different sizes and functions. So we could get to an approach like this where you can put a mixture of cells, some engineered, to have high therapeutic value and others not. You can run them through a spiral microfluidic device. Naturally separate them on the basis of their size, and we can talk about how and why that works, so you can take the cells you want that will lead to good therapeutic outcome, patch -- package those cells and provide them to the patient. That is an example we have in clinical trials right now in Singapore, and we have a lot of other applications and variations on that approach. The goal here is to think about, I want to provide the right medicine to the patient. We know how to do that with certain cholesterol drugs, but we do not yet know how to do it well all the time for cell therapy. There are exciting approved cell therapies but we want to get this right for each patient every time. That is personalized medicine. In order to do that, we need technologies like this to separate the good from the bad cells. In order to do that, it is not just cool experiments. This also a lot of data analytics, so you can have really strong correlations between the attributes of the cells that you can measure, the attributes of what -- of the patient, and the outcome you can expect, so every cell you put in is the right cell for that indication. That is what we aspire to and continue to work toward. I will close by saying, well, what is next at MIT and for this kind of research and this kind of approach throughout the world ? What is next for us is working closely with our partners in Singapore through a new team just watched earlier this year. That is the Singapore -- Singapore MIT alliance for technology, a long-standing program and collaboration between the government of Singapore's research foundation, MIT faculty, and students. The team that I co-lead is called smart camp. We are all campers. The camp acronym stands for critical analytics for manufacturing personalized medicine. It is survey focused on manufacturing and the production of medicines that could work if you knew how to manufacture them so that you have the right medicine for each patient on time and at an affordable cost. It requires a big leap from growing cells in a petri dust -- dish, to getting cells to survive a complex -- requirements like a brain. Another way we are taking this out is not just a focus on research technologies but also the education of the new kind of workforce that will be needed for this approach. We have worked with manufacturing -- this is a national initiative to develop workforce training as well as collaboration with companies who want to adopt these technologies in order to bring them as part of the FDA approved product lines, for example. The last bit that I will show you here, a little bit of eye candy for where this is going, I mentioned the brain a few times. It is your squish used organ and very compliant tissue. It is very complex and most people study neurons. When you think about neurons, they are long fiber-like cells and conduct signals from point a to point B. Two women in my lab have or to very hard on this for a number of years and are now premature to commercialization is, what if I could make an artificial neuron? It acts on this that I'm showing you here, what if I could get the geometry and the mechanics of that right so that I could watch a really deep process that is a major part of diseases like multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's. What if I could do that by 3D printing a bunch of these accents so efficiently that I could use this approach for drug screening or cell therapy. Here, you see the setup developed in collaboration with mechanical engineering MIT as well as many others over the years, and the outcome we have achieved here. This last thing I will show you, what you're looking at is 3-D artificial axons. Synthetic polymers, nothing biological about them. And then blue and green blobs, the blue is the nucleus and the green is the cell, and the cell type's whole job is to wrap around his artificial axons. They conduct the alleged collectivity from a to B, and when your cells do not do that, that is a characteristic of diseases like MS. If we could watch the 3-D process happening and watch the cells rough around artificial axons, then we can start to screen that. What you are seeing is the little hand of the cell, wrap around the artificial axons. We are able to watch the process in the lab and see what conditions could and hands or retarded that -- slow that as we focus on the diseases they currently have no treatment. That is what we have ahead for us at MIT as well as several Pharma companies happen very instrumental in advancing our thinking on that. With that, I will close and I'm happy to take any and all questions. Pam: Wonderful. Thank you so much. That was fascinating. I will take the moderation prerogative and ask a couple questions before we get to those questions. I have spent a lot of time on the pandemic. I will ask you pandemic related questions. I am really interested in the way you work and think, so multidisciplinary. I would love to hear your thoughts in the material engineering, biomedical engineering sphere of what, as you look at the pandemic, what do you see that could be improved? A lot of people are trying to come up with different designs for ventilators and masks, and for killing the virus. A lot of effort is being spent on the kind of soul level analysis you are doing and what you are talking about, but you are look -- looking at how the virus replicates and so forth. I'm curious what you have been thinking as you are watching the pandemic, that if you had unlimited time and the ability to tackle one problem or two problems, how would you do that? What would you tackle?  That is a good question. I'm tackling being part of a dedicated team of people figuring out how to help MIT ramp up its research again so we can have more people contributing to those ideas and solutions. How we were in real time developing manufacturing solutions, including face shills designed and manufactured by MIT, new approaches to share design and ventilators so everything is open source. I have been able to assist in aspects of that through my administrative role but I think I have come to learn we are all learning about this particular pandemic. I'm fortunate to have worked in Southeast Asia were the concept is not new, so the idea that you would not -- that you would have to adapt your human behavior and have players of risk mitigation, we are comfortable with that. It is something we have been through before. Now on the -- not on the MIT campus in the U.S. in this way. The two things I think the most about is how do we all get comfortable with a long phase of adaptive recovery as a society, that we will do things different way for a long time, but we will be better prepared next time? And know that it is not just one thing, not just testing and not just contact tracing, not just face coverings, but and, and, and. An analogy shared with me from one of my physics colleague at MIT is when you figure about radiation exposure, you always mitigate your risk. More protection is always better because the risks of exposure are known to be back so why not do more if you can? The second thing I spent a lot of my free time thinking about is the challenges in having much faster testing and technologies needed to enable much faster testing. There are limitations to all the testing we are doing now. PCR-based testing is just telling you, and my infectious right now? Three days ago when I got texted , so there is a speed problem. The idea of antibody testing has a high false-negative. It is also not as fast but also not as accurate as we would want to be. I think as we develop new technologies that improve on the speed of that, we get more comfortable with this being a potential illness that affects some of us without taking down all of society, all of the family, or all of the region. That will give us more operational comfort. That is what I'm thinking about these days. The third issue which is quite nagging is this will be a new thread in the Bio Pharma Manufacturing work stream. We knew about testing for HIV-AIDS in our products, and now as we start to manufacture more and more farmer products, we will think about testing accurately & for this virus or others like it. That will take a focus on rapid analysis and MIT is strong on that. We were working on that before the coronavirus, this particular coronavirus, emerged. We have to adapt and get ready to tackle this challenge.  Really interesting. There have been a couple of questions related to how the pandemic is affecting work in Singapore and also, you know, whether, given what you are saying about their previous experience with viruses like this, with epidemics like this, are they better positioned to jump into clinical trials, to be involved in pandemic related research right now? Those are two different questions. There were a couple of people interested in the Singapore side of things. Professor Van Vliet: I think that is a great question. It is roughly 4:00 a.m. over there so these questions are coming from the side of the world unless they are really dedicated listeners. What is going on in Singapore right now, is, the initial response and the initial containment of the pandemic was a strong one. I actually left Singapore, I was there for MIT in January and I left just as the cases were getting, the first three cases were being identified in the country. They had a fast response because they had seen this movie before and it was effective for a time. Our labs operated but we went to shift mode, where we had people coming in for certain shifts of the day. That reduced the risk of transmission, if someone in that shift was sick, then the whole shift would not come to work. That was preemptive and then the Singapore situation got worse and they went into what they're currently in now, a circuit breaker mode. The low terminology for all of the labs and my team are shut down with the exception of one project, COVID-19 related. Otherwise, no lab work is going on, just like my lab at MIT has no active lab work going on, just dated -- data analysis and remote work. Their position to start back up on June 2, the end of the circuit breaker time for research activity like ours, we had to have approved plans and we were ready. We're so practiced to ramp down and ramp up quickly, that by this morning, we have finalized our plans for June 2. So we are hopeful we learn from that and we are trying to take the learnings that MIT has learned in Singapore and also adapt them at MIT is appropriate but each culture is different. Pam: Thank you. We have a question from Frank. You have used Rene and, so I will use it. This is not related. Do you foresee any problems in personalized medicine in the areas of drives the order in the ability for officials to pay for personalized service? A very good question. Professor Van Vliet: That is a very good question. In terms of privacy, it is a key ethical concern not addressed just by saying, there are hit the - HIPAA regulations. Data need to be shared. The question is, can you anonymize the data such that I can connect the dots for you, without giving away --  most of it rests on the idea of leaving -- leaving the data and declaring what you need. You do not need to take all the data to help guide the personalized care of the patient. We will continue to make frosh it -- progress to say there are data about individuals and that is inherently valuable data. It is quite challenging the U.S. because of the reimbursement system we have for medical care, and it is not tied only to the cost of goods. By which I mean, I could make manufacturing of cell therapy much cheaper than it is now by improving on the process and perhaps on many aspects of the two less expensive to produce that bucket of medicine. That does not mean in the U.S. it will get an order of magnitude cheaper. The cost of goods to make medicine and what we charge for the medicine. Some of that is a government role in some of that is a patient advocacy role. It is complex. What we can do as engineers is make the process as efficient as possible because of the cost of goods is lower, than the price can be lowered, and then share the ability to make these medicines worldwide. The kinds of medicines are generally going to be made locally where the patient is. Bench to bedside transfer will be pretty close. We cannot horde these advances. We have to share them in a responsible way. Pam: Very interesting. A couple of cell biology related questions. The first is from Bob. Can you describe a little more about how you got a cell to develop in a specific and desirable way? Is it pH? Professor Van Vliet: It can be all of the above. We have a defined question. I will give you a defined question and an example. I showed you the cells that come from bone marrow. One of the things we found out about those cells is by sorting them using the micro fluid that I showed you, the cells that were both larger in the population, a bigger diameter, and stiffer, and their nucleus did not move around as much because the DNA inside had stopped moving around as much those cells were advantageous for helping people who had been exposed for radiation and the bone marrow was destroyed. These cells helped the bone marrow regenerate and help blood supply regenerate. We have very impressive results in animals, in mice, that you could use the subset of these cells to get 80% survival versus 20% survival. That is a big improvement. But it is inefficient because only 20% of the cells that a group in that environment where the ones that I wanted. So I had a really fantastic graduate who said, let me figure out what the cells are secreting so I can have a so -- have all of the cells create more of those key molecules. We call that mechanical priming. By making a polymer of just the right stiffness, the Goldilocks approach, that stiffness was not exactly the stiffness of bone marrow but it was in that range, she can make all of the cells secrete the molecules of interest. They were not differentiating or becoming blood cells. The reason why is they were -- it affected how it was transmitting information to the nucleus and the protein expression. We can change the mechanical environment and the cells pull on that and we can figure out how to actually control protein production through the mechanical environment. That took years. Not a fast approach but we learned how to get faster and faster in that approach. It is much more common to change the chemical environment, which is called media, you can do that but it tends to be very expensive because each of the molecules, especially in an FDA regulated product, each molecule has to be specially manufactured. We try approaches we think will have a path toward higher affordability. Pam: Very interesting. Another cell biology from Claude. Is separating the cells by size as accurate as separating by RNA expression, as accurate regarding cell function? Professor Van Vliet: That is a great question. I would say not always. In the example I gave you come we could save the cells were in a particular range of five in diameter, we could tell you what the RNA expression, we could tell you with the protein expression was going to be. But once they had committed to that phenotype, it was not because the size was special, it was just the size was a correlate with their phenotype and their function. It could have been that they were blue and the protein expression was what we needed it to be. We measured about 20 different attributes of the cell, the size and shape, everything we could matter -- good measure. These are the strongest correlations we could -- that we found. It just means it is a correlate with protein expression.  OK. We have a lot of questions and I will get to two more. One is, your work is Omni disciplinary. How much hoped you have that machine learning will change your work in the next decade? I am guessing you're already using machine learning. Professor Van Vliet: We use aspects of data reduction, approaches simpler than machine learning because machine learning requires a large data set to be effective with the kinds of things we do. We are still gathering data to have enough for machine learning to be useful. I've is a big focus of what we're doing at MIT right now. We use approaches like principal component analysis. Can we figure out what shows the maximum variance and learn about those extremes? But I do have high hopes that other approaches to data analytics will be a big part of turning cell therapy into a forgettable and useful medicine. Pam: The final question but we will be keeping the Q&A box open for about 15 minutes after the session ends, and this questions will be forwarded to the professor. I love this question to end on because I think anyone listening to you and reading your biography, would have a similar question. I bet you have any advice on time management with all your duties. Please leave us with a few pearls. Professor Van Vliet: I am not sure I am the best person for advice on that. I do manage my time carefully because I'm really excited about each of the things that I do. I have to be sure that I fit in time for each of those each day. I tend to be a scheduled for some. I know the holy before it happens in terms of hours I will spend at work and in terms of hours that I will not spend at work. They have to be scheduled for me, that I go for a run or make a nice dinner with my husband. I tend to be scheduled and that makes me feel comfortable. There are big chunks of my day called no meetings because one of my professors at MIT when I was a graduate years ago said you have to leave time every day to be by yourself and think. I have always taken a device and it is part of why was able to connect the dots because I take time when I don't have meetings each day and that really helps me rejuvenate to connect the dots. Pam: That is a great and inspiring notably was on. Thank you so much for tuning in to the faculty form online, and big thanks to Professor Krystyn Van Vliet for joining us today and spending your valuable time with us. It was so informative. We will be sure to forward all of the questions, as I mentioned, that are still in the Q&A, to our speaker. You have another 10 or 15 minutes to type in some more questions. This broadcast will be available on the MIT alumni YouTube channel within a week at today. If you are inclined, you can tweet about today's chat and you can send follow-up questions or feedback to alumni learn at MIT. EDU. Have a wonderful day. Whitney Espich: Thanks for joining us and for more information on how to connect with the MIT Alumni Association please visit our website. 