 Hello! In today's video, we will study about the different methods of Vegetative reproduction seen both in lower plants and higher plants. We have already studied Sexual reproduction in our previous video. By the end of this video, you will be able to develop a clear understanding of plant propagation and how it helps in Horticulture. Today, we will discuss about Plant propagation, Vegetative reproduction in lower plants, Vegetative reproduction in higher plants, Natural and Artificial method of Vegetative propagation, Benefits of Micropropagation and finally, Merits of Vegetative propagation. Let us start by defining Plant Propagation. Plant propagation is the process of increasing the number of plants of a particular species. In Angiosperms, the main modes of reproduction are Vegetative propagation or Asexual reproduction or Vegetative reproduction and Sexual reproduction through production of flowers. Let us discuss about the Vegetative reproduction in lower plants. There are many different modes of Asexual reproduction in lower plants. They are Binary Fission as seen in amoeba, Budding found in yeast, Sporulation seen in Penicillium and Fragmentation seen in Spirogyra. Binary Fission is common in unicellular organisms. After maturation, the parent cell divides into two new individuals as seen in Bacteria and Amoeba. In Budding, the division is unequal. Buds arise from a parent cell. They grow in size and eventually get separated and develop into independent individuals. Common example is Yeast. Sporulation is another mode of asexual reproduction In Algae and Fungi different types of motile and non-motile spores are produced. Mostly algae produce motile spores called Zoospores, found in Chlamydomonas, while Fungi produce non-motile spores called Conidia. Common example is Penicillium. Fragmentation is yet another mode of asexual reproduction. Mechanical injury or death of intervening cells causes breakage of filamentous plant body. Each fragment develops into new individuals. It is seen in Spirogyra and other algae. Next, we will discuss about Vegetative reproduction in higher plants. The reproduction which occurs without the fusion of gametes is called Asexual reproduction. In Angiosperms, it occurs through the vegetative parts of the plant, like roots, stem, leaf, or buds. Therefore it is called Vegetative propagation or Vegetative reproduction. These vegetative parts have adequate amount of reserve food material. They act as propagules and under favourable conditions, they grow to form an independent plant. There are broadly two different methods of Vegetative reproduction in higher plants. First- the Natural method, from roots, stems, leaves and the second is the Artificial method, by Cutting, Layering, Grafting and Micropropagation. By the way, if you're getting some value out of this lecture, please like and share the video so that all of us can learn, unlearn and relearn together. Also, please consider subscribing the channel and press the bell icon to get instant notification of all the upcoming videos. Now, let's continue with Natural vegetative propagation. Almost all vegetative parts are used in nature for Vegetative reproduction. Let us take the parts one by one. First- root. The root tubers of Sweet potato, Dahlia store food. They develop adventitious buds. These buds under suitable condition grow to form new plants In Sweet potato, the tuberous roots are produced singly at nodes of a creeping stem, while in Dahlia they are produced in cluster. In some plants, the ordinary non-fleshy roots help in Vegetative propagation. Example- roots of Guava, Delbergia etc. Next, we come to Stem tubers. In potato plant, Solanum tuberosum, the basal and underground part of stem produce axillary underground branches whose terminal part becomes swollen due to storage of starchy reserve food. These swollen parts are known as Stem tubers. The tubers show nodes and internodes. The nodes bear scale leaves with axillary buds commonly called "eyes". During favourable conditions, "eyes" sprout and produce aerial shoots. Formation of Rhizome is another mode of Vegetative propagation. Rhizome is a prostate stem which grows horizontally under the surface of the soil. It shows nodes, internodes, terminal bud and axillary buds in the axil of each scale leaf present at the node. During favourable condition. the terminal bud grows into the aerial shoot. Growth of rhizome takes place with the help of lateral buds. This type of rhizome is known as Sympodial rhizome. Example- Ginger, Turmeric. When growth of rhizome occurs with the help of terminal bud, it is known as Monopodial rhizome. Example- Lotus. Next is Bulb, which is a condensed disc- like underground stem. The upper surface of disc-like stem bears centrally placed apical bud and many concentrically arranged scale leaves. Inner scale leaves are thick and fleshy and store food, while the outer scale leaves are thin and dry and are protective in function. Lower surface of disc- like stem produces adventitious roots. Example- Onion, Garlic. Corm, is yet another condensed form of rhizome. It is a short, stout, fleshy, upright and thickened underground stem. It contains a heavy deposit of food material. It bears many buds in the axils of scale leaves and one of these buds grow up into daughter corms. Adventitious roots develop from the base. Corm is found in Amorphophallus. Next is the Creeping stem. Eichhornia and Pistia show one of the most prolific mode of reproduction through Offsets. The offsets help the plant to spread over the surface of water. When the offsets break, the daughter plants become independent. Next, is the Runner. Runner is a slender, prostrate, sub-aerial branch that creeps horizontally on the ground. It has long internodes and becomes rooted at the nodes. Runner develops from the axillary bud and creeps some distance away from the mother plant and grows into a new plant. Example- Oxalis, Mint. Formation of Stolon also helps in Vegetative propagation. Stolon is a slender, lateral branch that arises from the base of the stem, bends down and touches the soil. The terminal bud gives rise to a new plant. Example- Jasmine. Next form is the Sucker. It is a lateral branch arising from the underground part of the stem. It grows horizontally below the soil and then comes above the soil obliquely and gives rise to a new plant. Example- Chrysanthemum. Vegetative propagation also takes place through leaves. In plants like Bryophyllum, adventitious buds called Epiphyllous buds or Foliar buds are produced in the notches of the leaves. These buds start sprouting and when they fall on moist soil, they develop into new plants. Now, we will learn about Artificial or Horticultural methods of Vegetative propagation. They are Cutting, Layering, Grafting and Micropropagation. Cuttings are the small pieces of the plant parts like root, stem or leaf when placed in moist soil develop into new plants stem. Cuttings are used in Rose, Bougainvillea etc. Next is layering. A portion of one of the lower branches of the plant with an axillary bud at the node is bent so that it touches the soil. A ring of bark is removed from this position and then covered with soil. After a few days, roots are formed and then it is cut off from the main plant. It now grows into an independent plant. Example- Jasmine, Mint. Grafting is another artificial method of vegetative propagation. It is done between two plants having vascular cambium. One of the plant that is anchored to the soil has a strong root system and is called the Stock. The other plant of which the shoot is selected has a better flower or fruit yield or any desired character and is known as the Scion or Graft. The Scion is placed on the Stock in such a manner that their cambia come together. The grafted points are then bound together with tape. To prevent dehydration and to protect it from any bacterial infection the joint is covered with wax. After a few days, with the formation of new cells, a new plant grows. Often seen in Mango. Another important method of Vegetative propagation is Micropropagation. It is the propagation of plants by Tissue Culture technique. The culturing or growing isolated protoplast or cells or tissue or organ on nutrient medium under controlled aseptic conditions to produce complete plant or plant parts is called Tissue Culture Technique. Tissue of vegetative buds, shoot apex or any other suitable part of the plant can be used as an Explant for Micropropagation. Explant is a tissue or part excised from the plant for tissue culture. The explants are properly sterilized to avoid any type of contamination and to prevent microbial growth. It is cultured in a particular nutrient medium. The cells grow and divide to form an unorganized mass of cell called Callus. Some growth hormones or regulators are added. This induces differentiation and formation of plant parts and finally developing into a tiny plantlet. The plantlet is then transferred to the soil. We will now look into the Benefits of micro propagation. Tissue culture is being used in increasing proportions for raising suitable plantlets. It produces virus- free plants. For this, shoot apices are propagated in tissue culture. It is helpful in the production of very large number of plants within a short period. Seed dormancy can be overcome through tissue culture. When the seeds are dormant the embryo of these seeds can be cultured and micro propagated. It is also helpful in achievement of somatic hybridization and multiplication of sterile or non-viable plants. Micropropagation technique is useful for obtaining a large number of genetically identical plants within a short time period. Multiplication of plants becomes season independent. Rare plants can be conserved by this technique. Finally, we come to the Merits of Vegetative Propagation. It is easier and cheaper method of multiplication. Many plants can be grown more quickly by vegetative means than through the formation and germination of seeds. Plants that do not reproduce by bisexual method do not produce seeds. They can only be grown by vegetative methods. The desirable characters of a variety can be preserved by vegetative propagation. Desirable characters of two varieties can be combined through grafting. Infection- free plants can be obtained by Micropropagation. So, today we have learnt about vegetative propagation in plants in detail. I have some practice questions for you. Please share your answers in the comment section below. You can pause the video if you like, and write down the questions. Thank you so much for your time and participation. If you haven't subscribed to my channel yet, please consider subscribing the channel and press the bell icon to get instant notification of all the upcoming videos. Also, if you want to discuss any particular topic in biology, please mention that in the comment section below. I'll see you there. Goodbye! All the Best! 