 Our next slot, as I already mentioned this morning, is all about the contrarians, the lateral thinkers. They say: Yes, that’s nice, you can always improve stuff, always think of something on the basis of what’s already there. But we want to do everything differently. We want to turn the clock back to zero. We want to be real pioneers. To introduce the first gentleman to come up here, I got this amazing thing. Who knows what this is? It’s a racket for badminton or squash and a table tennis ball. Now, as you can see, you can play with it normally. What is special about this racket is not the table tennis ball, and it’s not the frame – it’s what’s in the middle. What do you think this is? What do you think? Spider silk? Spider silk, he’s right. This is spider silk. This is spider silk. And that is exactly one of the topics the chair of our first Industry Pioneers speaker is exploring. It’s all about the materials of the future. Of course you could say: Well, spider silk and the future – been there, done that. But the trick is obviously not to milk as many spiders as possible and use their silk for rackets or something. No, this is about learning which materials can be created synthetically. And that is extraordinary, especially when discussing micro plastic – I know that will be part of his presentation. To simply say: Let’s use protein – protein-based materials of the future. Go organic, so to speak. And with that, a very warm welcome to Thomas Scheibel from Bayreuth.    We’ll pass the racket around. Please, go ahead and put stress on it – the racket can take it. Not with your fist, but with the flat of your hand. You’re welcome to test the webbing. And what’s really key: the individual filaments are one tenth the diameter of a human hair. With a net about as thick as my thumb, you could stop a Boeing 747 during landing – without the fibers tearing. That’s a natural characteristic, and that’s where I’d like to start. We have this incredibly fascinating natural material, so you’ll surely wonder: Why can’t I buy this? Why isn’t there a racket made with spider silk? Why doesn’t Frankfurt Airport have nets of some kind that can slow down, say, a misdirected government plane? Fully loaded, fully fueled. Why don’t we have that? And one problem there lies in nature itself: the critters that produce this silk are cannibals – so breeding them on a large scale is absolutely impossible. The spiders have to be held in solitary confinement, so to speak, and the silk extracted from each one individually. Imagine: 70 meters of thread weighs about one milligram. Translated into a silk cloth of two square meters – you can see one in the museum in London – you’ve “milked” 1.5 million spiders for four years to get two square meters of fabric. Probably a bit too expensive for Lufthansa Cargo. So we have to find another way. And that’s what I want to introduce to you today. &lt;i &lt;b &lt;u &lt;font color=#00000000 &lt;/font &lt;/u &lt;/b &lt;/i I’d like to present Spider Silk, a new material inspired by the spider – but produced without the spider. You can see here what areas we’re working in and where we can employ the material. They range from footwear – in a minute, I’ll show you a shoe that we’ve developed with Adidas – to technical textiles, fashion, the automotive industry – we’re doing a lot there, too, which I’ll also show you. In September we launched a major collaboration with Airbus – to develop new, resilient wings. I’d like to present that to you briefly in ten minutes. But first, an excursion into the world of plastics. These are figures from McKinsey, summarized for the World Economic Forum in 2017. What you see here is plastic production for the year 2014: 311 million tons. And you can see the approximate ratio of plastic to fish mass in our oceans. At the moment, we have a ratio of 1:5. That’s not to say that all plastic is harmful. It’s simply meant to reflect how much mass is currently floating around in the ocean. And when we prognosticate that we’ll be using more and more plastic, we can predict that by 2050, this figure will be in the billions of tons. This will mean a corresponding increase of plastic not just in the water, but also on land. This here only shows the amount in the water. And we’ll see that if we keep going as we are now, in 2050 there will be more plastic swimming in the oceans than fish. I find that fairly alarming. This of course calls for new materials; we need recyclable synthetics. It isn’t that synthetic materials are bad. It just means that we have to deal with waste management more sensibly and that we need synthetics which can be recycled. And that brings us back to the spider. Because when a spider moves on, it doesn’t just leave its web hanging there – instead, it eats it up. The spider web is made of 99.9 percent protein, so it can be fully recycled. I’ll show you the sneaker now. Sometimes I tell customers, if you don’t like your sneakers, eat them. They’re a two-in-one solution. When you go to the gym, you don’t need the protein shake afterwards – you just eat your shoe. Okay, but now I want to show you, that’s our model. How can we translate this knowledge of the spider into a process that can be utilized industrially? To do this, I started a company eleven years ago, Amsilk. We were the first and are still the leading company worldwide that manufactures spider silk biotechnologically. Out of completely renewable raw materials. I’d like to show you a short film about it. This is the production plant, with huge reactors where bacteria is cultured, intestinal bacteria, at a scale of two million cubic meters. The bacteria is fed with molasses sugar as a carbon source. Here you see how the fibers are created out of the biotechnologically produced material. And this gives you a look at our fiber-spinning plant. This is an experiment in biodegradation. You can see that the polyester in the experiment doesn’t show any degradation. Mechanically, Biosteel – it’s not steel, of course, but protein – can withstand stress just as well as the original. I have to keep on mentioning that it isn’t steel. The German Welding Society wrote to me asking me to give a talk – I said I’d be happy to, as long as I didn’t have to weld. So, what are the characteristics we’re talking about here? I’ve brought a roll of Biosteel with me, which you can look at but not touch, because everyone always wants to take a piece of it with them – that’s why we don’t pass it around. It’s very light, with a thickness of 1.3. It has very good climate control properties. Anyone here who has ever worn silk underwear knows that silk is breathable. Biosteel is entirely vegan in its production. ou’ll laugh, but we don’t need spiders anymore, we can do it all with bacteria. One thing that’s very important to many companies, especially in the cosmetics industry, is that it’s germ-free. And that means – here, you’ll laugh again – that your sneakers will never stink. Microbes just can’t adhere to them, or you can rinse them off very easily with water. So, these shoes don’t smell. But they keep telling me not to use that as a marketing point, because who wants to admit that they have smelly feet? So I’m not supposed to mention it. Nonetheless, it’s a characteristic, a USP of this material, and it should be known that you can use it to regulate moisture. These are the athletic shoes I mentioned that we developed with Adidas, which aren’t on the market yet. We don’t have any influence on that. Adidas controls the market launches of new products very strictly, and of course they don’t want to create competition for themselves, so that’s still in the pipeline. It was in the newspaper FAZ just today, which is why I can talk about it. Omega, the watch manufacturer, has launched a new product. They now have a Biosteel watchstrap – available as of today. Like I said, in the business section of the FAZ, hot off the press. It caught me by surprise – that’s why I don’t have a photo of it. So, there are products on the market, and we now have a close collaboration with Airbus with the aim of making airplane wing panels more impact-resistant. This is, of course, a damage-prevention application. This combination of strength and elasticity is a characteristic of a spider web, enabling it to absorb and distribute more energy than any human-made material. And that plays a major role in airplane wings, where any impact of course means that you have to make repairs afterwards. The waiting times play directly into the costs, and we’re now trying to develop a new wing concept on the basis of, or using, Spider Silk, in order to extend the maintenance intervals and thereby reduce idle times and have the planes in the air longer. And that was launched by Airbus in September in a big way. But it isn’t just the area of technology we’re talking about. he products on the market since 2014 are primarily in the area of cosmetics and skin and hair care products, above all in Asia—South Korea in particular. I was asked earlier if we’re shippers too. Of course! We have customers in South Africa, in Asia – especially South Korea – but also all over Europe. So there are fields of application. “Silky-smooth skin” is of course in demand. the germ-free property again – and it plays a role in injuries. Which brings me to the most amazing topic. This is a heart after a heart attack. What’s happened here is that the affected tissue has scarred over, because heart muscle cells can’t migrate. They’re grounded, they’re unable to move, so they form scar tissue. That means that after a coronary, we always get a scar and, going forward, this will of course impair the muscle – the beating of the heart muscle – which is why there are always long-term effects of a heart attack. The idea is quite simple. We now have this natural material and we’ve figured out that we can print it. You see here a 3D-printed Spider Silk object, and you’ll be able to tell in a second what it is. This is in real time. We have a Spider Silk gel that we put through the printer and we can see here in real time how fast we lay these structures over one another. This is 100 percent Spider Silk and water – no chemicals, no cross-linkers. Just physics, physical cross-linking. And in this case ... who can tell what this will be? Exactly, an ear. We’ve printed an ear. That’s 64 layers on top of one another. And the really exciting thing is that, with Spider Silk, we can now print cells. I just mentioned that cardiac muscle cells don’t migrate. Here you see now that, after two days, the printed heart muscle cells are beginning to beat in sync with each other. So our big goal now is to repair this defect by means of 3D printing using Spider Silk and cardiac muscle cells. Repairing a “broken heart”! That’s a future vision. The other examples I’ve shown you are reality. I’d like to conclude this short talk with the slogan ‘Good for you – good for the planet.’ To sum it up, we’ve developed a new biotechnology through which we can recreate spider silk proteins as a basis for high-performance applications. I’m looking forward to our discussion later. Thank you very much! &lt;i &lt;b &lt;u &lt;font color=#00000000 &lt;/font &lt;/u &lt;/b &lt;/i 