 Let’s go back to robots and robots which are part of the real world. In my opinion, robots could be classified into two categories: clumsy and skilled. The clumsy is developing, it is not finished yet. But the skilled, on the other hand, is already part of our everyday life. The skilled robot is already at work, in the kitchen, at the factory, in hospitals, in supermarkets. These are the industrial robots, and they have actually relieved the man from painful tasks for a very long time. From the outset, these robots have been designed to improve productivity, optimize logistics. Those machines are asked to do more and more complex tasks. And we make them do it. And if the world champions remain in Asia, we are not late in France. This is the case of BA Systèmes, which for 40 years has been designing, integrating and maintaining automated vehicles and mobile robots. The company is located about fifteen kilometers from here, in Mordelles. Leader in its field, BA Systèmes employs 230 people, 1 / 5th of whom is dedicated to innovation, this rate is quite exceptional. This innovation pole is headed by Guy Caverot who also teaches in engineering schools and he is the one who is going now to present these unusual robots. Guy Caverot, it is your turn… Good Morning… So when we talk about robotics, we usually think about humanoid robots or yellow, orange, and now green poly-articulated robots that we can see at work in factories. Today, I am going to talk about other robots, a little less known; mobile robots that can evolve in different environments. To illustrate these new uses of mobile robotics, I will present 3 families of examples with 3 examples in the field of robots that help people, 3 examples of robots that are intended to move heavy loads, and you will see that the heavy loads can be moved in factories but not only. And finally 3 examples of mobile robots in the field of healthcare. Let's start with the first part, robots designed to help men in difficult tasks. You can see on the first example not a robot in a factory, but a robot on a construction site. His name is ROBY. ROBY stands for robot and Bouygues. This robot is intended, on construction sites to handle difficult tasks that is to say drilling, hammering or stitching concrete. This robot consists in a mobile base that moves automatically, a poly-articulated arm and a tool, you know, these big drills that one can see on construction sites. For some years now, this robot has operated on construction sites, such as the completion of the Philharmonic in Paris, also at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle for industrial pool applications. And then quite recently on the Flamanville EPR where ROBY drilled big size holes which would have been very difficult for operators to perform. This was a first example of robot in the field of construction that help operators and reduce what is called MSDs, musculoskeletal disorders. The second example of application is a robot that operates on the assembly line of the Airbus A350 in Saint Nazaire. And the job of this robot is to ensure the screwing of carbon fiber plates as you can see on the image. This robot particularity is to work in coactivity with the operators that you can see on the background. It is a fairly advanced robot, ultra-light and guided by camera. This robot which is used in the Factories of the Future or connected 4.0 factories is a textbook case. And we are going to see why. Because not only is this robot handling tasks, but every time, for example, that it has screwed, it will measure a torque and send the data back to an information system that manages the aircraft assembly. This same system will send to the robot the information on the following task to perform. Note that this robot was developed in a context of open innovation and we will have several other examples of robots developed in a context of open innovation with an end-user called Airbus, with LS2N in Nantes a CNRS laboratory and then the Institute of technological research in Nantes. This mobile robot is currently in an industrialization phase and is tested on different aeronautical applications since there is not only one application for this robot. The third example ... ...is a first in Europe. It is not a mobile robot, it is a mobile cobot. So what is a mobile cobot? It is a cobotized system, that will work in interaction with a man and this system will move automatically to an operator and you can see, for example, here that we have to move steel cylinders that are over thirty kilos in weight in the orange piece which is a cylinder. The robot will come and help the operator by adding strength and then will help him guiding the piece in the cylinder. This machine that is currently being tested is the result of a collaborative work with CEATech's software research laboratories and with 4 SMEs; a SME in Lyon called Akeo plus which works on robotics, Arcure who makes safety vision systems, all these companies are French and Sarrazin Technologies which is a company from the south of Bourgogne which develops cobots. So that kind of machine will probably be more and more present in the factories as they will allow both to help operators and provide them with more precision in the tasks to be done. You can see several videos of this robot on the Internet. Please note that behind these robots in interaction with men there is a very important topic which is software development and especially the safety of software that operates these robots. After these three examples you will be able to see on construction sites, in factories, we will now see mobile robots used to move heavy loads. We often use mobile robots to move heavy loads because of the resulting danger of this operation in factories. The first example is a robot that has been developed for a group called ArcelorMittal. It is a co-developed project with a company located in the east of France that manufactures mechanical chassis. Here again it is a development made in association. The robot aims at moving 26-ton reels from a shipping area where trains arrive to a stock and from this stock, the robot... ...the robot will feed the machines, pick-up the reels when they are processed and put them back to a stock. It is equipped with guidance systems based on laser beams and other sensors, it is also equipped with safety systems to stop when people or obstacles are in front of it, and then again, it is integrated, embedded in a more global system of supervision management of the factory where it operates. We are really inside a factory and what is called the heavy manufacturing industry. Nowadays, robots starts to go outside, this is the case of Gaston. Gaston is a mobile robot used to ensure the link between production units in the food industry, on a customer’s premises who has several production plants and a logistics center. This machine will go directly out of the production line, will transfer a load that weighs about 10 tons, that is to say about twenty pallets, and then will automatically handle the load outside to reach the zone of logistics. Let's emphasize several points on this machine. First, the technologies used for the automatic guidance, are quite close to ones of autonomous vehicles. We use the same technologies. Another very innovative point is the management of safety. Because when we run these robot even if we are not on the public road but on a private one, the robot has to stop when a car or a person crosses the road. The other point which has been quite difficult to develop and integrate was the overall energy management. The robot arrives at the dock, for 2 or 3 minutes takes energy with a lot of amperage and then, this energy allows the robot to ensure automatically and completely autonomously the link between the production units and the logistics area. What is also important to emphasize in this field of application is the fact that laboratories have worked on it, especially the CNRS research laboratories that have worked on the machine guidance technologies. Indeed, you can see that even if it is a project which has been conducted in direct relationship with an industrial, there are also laboratories that intervened, in particular to complete the guiding of the machine. Heavy loads inside a factory, outside a factory, but heavy loads are not only a factory subject. For example, here you can see a work of art. This work of art was presented during 6 months at the Venice Biennale, and these are robots that move heavy loads, in this case, trees. Trees with the soil of the trees and the water on the trees, that is to say the tree plus the soil plus the water on it, on the thorns, weigh 3 tons. From the beginning, the artist Céleste Boursier-Mougenot has a set of specifications in which he wanted to transmit two things: first, he wanted to show that the metabolism of a tree is anisotropic, that is to say that it is not the same on the whole surface of the trunk of the tree. And secondly, he wanted to make trees that are motionless, mobile. Thanks to a collaborative program that involved researchers in the field of plants, in this case, INRA in Montpellier, people in the field of machine supervision, the LAAS in Toulouse, and scientists of the Collège de France, we built this work and succeeded in translating the need, the will of an artist into a mobile robotics system. One point about this mobile robot is the fact that it is a very advanced technological system. As for example, the artist refused to have a guiding infrastructure. Thus, we had to use technologies with echo radios which are very little used, except in aeronautics. Then, it was absolutely necessary that this robot could be omnidirectional, so under the balls of earth, there are driving groups with very advanced robotics control laws, so advanced that they were the subject of a doctoral thesis defended at LAAS in Toulouse about two months ago. Heavy loads applications in mobile robotics do not only deal with the factories, they can also be found in the field of art. Other examples could be given in ports or other applications. So now, to continue, we will move on to three examples of mobile robots designed to help, support doctors, surgeons and therapists. The first example is a mobile robot. You can see it here on the left. It is intended to move an X-ray radiography system in an operating room. At BA Systèmes, we produce between 50 and 100 robots of this type per year. This robot has been co-developed with General Electric and other partners I'm going to talk about. This is a great innovation because this technology can transform a surgery room into a hybrid room where surgery and radiography can be performed at the same time. Indeed, for example in minimally invasive operations, the surgeon, when he is going to put stents with a catheter on the coronaries or on the vascular network, needs to know the position of the stent in the human body. And this machine will automatically move the X-ray system to the right place and provide information to surgeons on Pads so as to ensure a right position and thus certify to surgeons that the stent is well positioned. This project is the result of a two-year collaborative work that has been supported by the Brittany region and Rennes Technopole. This project called IRIMI for Robotized Imager for Mini-Invasive Interventions mobilized more than 50 people, robotics engineers from CEA, CNRS, General Electric and the end users; the AP-HP and General Electric. At the end of this collaborative project that allowed to remove scientific and technological obstacles in the field of robotics on precision and repeatability, was engaged an industrialization in partnership with General Electric. Therefore, nowadays we are producing this machine and continue to work on it to optimize it. It is sold around the world and installed in many laboratories. Another example of mobile robot is more precisely a mobile medical device. This medical device was born again from a use. And this use and need concern hemiplegic persons. Nowadays, hemiplegic people often move in reel chairs. And the goal of this device is to raise hemiplegic people and make them move while standing. We are here speaking about a project which is more a research project. It is supported and funded by the National Agency for Research (the ANR) with different partners, so partners in the field of automation, but partners who also are end-users such as the rehabilitation center of Kerpape. This machine, this medical device, is being experimented at the University Hospital Center in Brest. You can see that we work a lot in Brittany! After the experimentation, it will be the subject of industrializing. This phase aims at transforming the results of the research into more advanced technological maturity so as to be able to industrialize the machine. This was a collaborative project aimed at helping hemiplegic people. The last robot is Robo-K. Robo-K is a robot for functional rehabilitation. K means Kinesitherapy. This robot helps therapists, physiotherapists to rehabilitate people suffering from two pathologies, post stroke, and Parkinson's disease. Let me introduce Robo-K to you. You can see it is a machine, a robot that can either be remote controlled or that can work like a real robot. That is to say, we give a trajectory to realize and the robot follows the trajectory, he will be able to make different movements; lateral movements. You can see here a lateral cross-step which you can say, would be quite difficult to perform on a treadmill. Robo-K is able to do lateral cross-step on the left, on the right. Another interesting point, for hemiplegic people for example, is that we are able to manage cable tensions to maintain and help the patient, thus facilitate his rehabilitation. Today this robot is the result of a collaborative project also conducted with research laboratories in robotics, with end-users, in this case the University Hospital of Rennes, the rehabilitation center of Kerpape, and robotics laboratories. What is also interesting with this robot, is that we can leave the rehab rooms, and go outside to re-educate. Robo-K was one of the first collaborative projects to involve researchers in humanities. And today it is a very strong trend, these researchers in human sciences who work in psychosociology, sometimes even in anthropology, will work on robots’ acceptability, both by the patient, but also by the family of patient, by therapists, and will eventually help introducing these technologies into the medical field. That’s it for this last example. To conclude, what we wanted to show you, by these different applications is that industrial mobile robotics impacts several fields of activity, construction, obviously the factories of the future but also contemporary art and as you have just seen, addresses many uses in the medical field. What is also very very important in relation to these developments, you may have experienced it all along the presentation, is that very often these new uses, these new robots, are made in collaborative frameworks, where will be involved research labs, end-users, and technology providers like BA Systèmes. Thanks for your attention. 