 Hey everyone, welcome back to another episode of  Candid Convos, Brett Trembley here, and today I'm   very excited to have Colleen Peffers of Peffer's Law in Ontario, of all places. I think our first   Canadian guest on Candid Convos, not that we've had that many so far, but Colleen welcome, please   you know thanks for joining us, please tell us a little bit more about yourself and what type   of law you practice. Well thank you very much for having me I am so excited to join you. I have an   estate planning and admin practice with a little bit of litigation and some corporate work and I, at   the beginning of the pandemic was struggling with my existing staff and I needed some help and I was   referred to you by some other colleagues in the U.S. who thought that you might be able to help and   your unique situation of two founding lawyers, finding excellent offshore staff and talent,   you understand what my needs were  and it was a great fit easy process.   That's, well thank you for that so your staffer, or as the outside world kind of knows him as a virtual assistant, her name Nancy and   how long has she been with you and how's she working out. She onboarded with me in the   middle of July and she has literally been a godsend, she is intelligent she's professional   she is, it's like the other side of my brain, she understands processes, she understands accounting   all the things that I've been lacking in an assistant she's been able to provide to me that.   Is really really awesome to hear you know, first I want to know that you sound like a very really   great person to work with or work for and that's one part of the equation that I think a lot   of people miss is, you know, I should clarify too our virtual assistants are full-time team members   so really it's just like hiring, you know a new staff person and you should treat them like a   a fully vetted team member as if they worked for you in person and I think a lot of people   mix that up because you know you can outsource work, this is more like insourcing, right?   And you can hire project work, etc so I think that's important but it's also important that you   you treat your virtual employees as if they are part of the team because that's going to get you   the best result as well and it sounds like that's what you've done a hundred percent. I agree   so at the beginning of the pandemic, we decided to move the practice to our respective homes   and I knew that we could work virtually  I started zoom conference calling with   clients to take instructions and to meet them in this weird situation and I was very you know   aware that we could work virtually we'd been doing it for a number of months so I wasn't   afraid of the process of not having somebody in front of me every day watching them work   because the whole purpose of hiring staff is to train them and help them learn about   your business and then let them fly so I can tell you that she is a rock star   she just, it's almost like she's in my  head and knows where we need to go next.   Wow, that's incredible, I feel like,  look you and I didn't tee this up, right? I feel   like someone's going to hear this and think oh that they're, they're, this is a, you're   not a real person, Colleen is made up and just some someone that Get Staffed Up paid to say really   nice things. Yeah, so the intro email about what I needed to do for this call was don't do anything   we just want to make sure we have your social media accounts and we understand your business, the   end. There were no pre-asked questions this is just on the fly she is truly the other side of my brain   I've left her to implement a whole new CRM system, I've left here to do all of the accounting work   that my actual accountant can't do she did that within the first six weeks of being hired.   Wow! And I've been waiting for that  type of reporting for three years.   Wow that's, I love it when we make a really good placement or connection but hearing that   the fact that we were able to help provide a solution that you've been waiting for for so long   it's hard to quantify what that's worth you know I'm even sitting here kind   of in awe, I mean you know the human resources world, the recruiting world sometimes you   find absolute rock stars and sometimes you find  really good team players and occasionally you find   people that are okay and they don't work out and we have to replace them just like you would   in your own firm but just hearing how  great Nancy's worked out for you is really just   heartwarming for me because. She's 100% rock star she, I needed to find something out on   a weekend and she messaged me right away through our internal communication system   I didn't expect her to but she did, she's great with our clients she does a lot of our intake and   she's also helping me with the billing which as you know as a lawyer billing is really important   and when do we ever have time if we don't have a full-time billing specialist so she's been   able to pick up that piece and give me a hand with that and really it's like having it my right arm   she just happens to live in Honduras. Right, and I think that's the part people don't   connect is they can, somebody really good for you can live anywhere but let me explore this   part because a lot of what people struggle with is what do I delegate, what do I need an assistant for   and it sounds like you didn't try to fit her in a traditional role saying you're a legal secretary   so this is exactly what you do or you're, you know a billing clerk so you're going to help   with with my billing and that's only you know what you're going to do sounds like you've   been able to identify different parts of the business that needed more help and things   that either weren't getting done or that weren't getting delegated. So tell us more about that   how did you go about that process? So it first started with the pandemic I made a big effort   to have this, the junior associate I had with me during the beginning of the pandemic who'd been   with me for almost three years, worked through all of our outstanding work and I spent those three   months learning where my business was falling down and where it needed help so I spent time   drafting policies and procedures and how to things and that's when I identified that our   CRM wasn't working well and I knew that was going to have to change then we had the issue with   I went to build some files and there was no retainer money and I thought well shoot we need to   have retainer letters and we need to have trust funds because that's how we run a business so   all of these things during my three months of, you know, in-depth pandemic review of my business along   with some external help as well allowed me to identify the places that were falling down   I assumed they were all going to fall on me as the business owner but when Nancy onboarded and I   spent time with her and spoke with her I knew that there was this huge resource available to me   that with some guidance and her seeing the business she could fill those stopgaps for me so   you know after we implement the new CRM package which is almost complete we will be having her   manage with my new receptionist all of the social media that we've been doing with the weekly   videos and you know Estate Planning 101 and what's  a corporation just so that we can keep track   of that and then insert those into our marketing campaign to existing clients and new clients alike.   Wow that's awesome so you and I were talking before we started recording it that you're kind of   in a whirlwind, you've been making a lot of changes and it sounds like, it sounds like   you've been not really aggressive because you seem very calm with it all but you have made   a lot of you know big decisions for you and it's like even little moves you know stacked on with   one with one another as they say small hinges swing big doors so you know what. I've   heard that one before. Yeah all right it's one of my favorites, I use it all the time   what you know, what do you attribute that to? Because it sounds like your business is   going so good now that you know you're just gonna  keep going well I mean I'm trying to do it in a in a respectful way to both my existing staff and myself because in my area of law right   now we're super busy and my litigation practice is growing and I'm the only one who litigates   so there's a lot on me because I'm still trying to run a business and be a lawyer at the same time so   as things are broken they're either going to fix with the existing people or we're going to bring   new people on I've just actually fired the accounting firm that couldn't do my work and I'm   outsourcing that as well to a U.S.-based company so that I get the work done that I need done   because you know I didn't tell  you at the meeting but I'm also a CPA   but I left that practice because I didn't want to do that every day I wanted to lawyer so we're   going to find the right people to fill the hole that is in my you know my business area   so it's about doing it as slowly as you  can and stop living in that boom-bust cycle   of so much work I can't keep taking in more work and then you have no work and then you go like not.   For me, it's about a steady ongoing source of income and as we open new marketing strategies   to target specific people if we have a staffing shortage then I'm going to look for more staff.   Yeah, wow that's incredible Colleen I'm very I'm sitting here admiring how stoic you are   and business-like about all the decisions you're making it's very it's incredibly refreshing so.  I had a lot of help but I've had a lot of help and I am blessed to have met all of these new U.S.   colleagues who have either been where I've been or are going through what I'm going through or   are just on the other side it's uplifting trust me there are bad days when I curse like a sailor   or I just need to you know take 15 minutes and go for a walk not always a stoic because   this has been a rough go right we've all had to pivot and make changes and find other ways to   manage our business and to bring work in but the goal is to have a happy work environment,   have a happy home environment, and make sure that my staff and my team are respected and taken care   of. It's funny you use the word pivot because this is the mug that I was  -Oh, nice! - Drinking my   decaf coffee out of this morning so listen Colleen this has been a lot of fun tell us   how can somebody get in touch with you that may need you know, your services I mean   especially you can be a resource in Ontario for people so and most of our most of our   email recipient list is are our attorneys  so tell us how we can get in touch with you.   So I'm at www.pefferslaw.ca for Canada and Peffers is spelled P-E-F-F like Frank E-R-S  law.ca. Okay pefferslaw.ca and Colleen you  know once again I just want to congratulate you   and thank you for jumping on with us for Candid.  I want to thank you for providing me   with one of the greatest staff members, I've had in my 30-year career not just being a lawyer   but in any other, you know employment endeavor I've had she's fantastic really. Wow, I'm just so happy to hear that, you have no idea so you're very welcome, and thank you for trusting   us and allowing us to help you find somebody so incredible.  - It's my pleasure to spend the   time with you and if I can do anything for you let me know I'm here. -Awesome thank you so much Colleen 