 All right, welcome back everybody to another episode of Candid Convos with Get Staffed Up, Brett Trembley here today and I'm very excited to have a good friend somebody that I admire a lot she is a kick butt take names type of gal and is a you know real big mover and shaker so Jenny Bradley with Triangle Smart Divorce, Jenny welcome and tell us a little bit more about yourself. Thanks, Brett I can't make myself sound better and you just did anyway, Jenny Bradley Triangle Smart Divorce in Cary North Carolina have owned this law firm since 2017 when I decided I wanted to own my own shop and do stuff my own way so that's what we do we help smart people avoid stupid mistakes when getting divorced, I like it I also like only working with smart people that's helpful right it is helpful, I mean we can all be our worst enemies for sure especially in times of stress, but if you have good logical based decision thinkers and those types of folks it makes your life a lot easier. For sure not so tell me you, I guess you were practicing law before 2017 but you didn't own your own firm so tell us a little bit about that. Yeah! so I got out of law school in 1998, getting so old I can't remember now I started working for someone else a small law firm three lawyers in the firm at that time within the first year one of the lawyers left, one of the partners left so then it was two partners and me and then in 2005, another partner left so that it was one partner and me and then he merged his practice with a bunch of folks doing family law in Wake County the county that I'm currently still in and I went with him as an associate left there in 2016 and became law partners no, oh! six! good grief Jenny! I left there in 2006 and became partners with some other folks in the same county city area that I've worked in and did that until 2016 when I found how to manage a small law firm the coaching group you and I know each other from yeah, and naively thought that I was going to stay in How to manage a small law firm and then do my own thing and be a partner because we were kind of eat what you kill partnership but that didn't last so after a year of that, I said the heck with it. I'm gonna start my own firm market who I want to market to do it my way work with who I want to work with be able to refuse "cd" and "f" clients instead of having to take everything that came in the door so it's where we are haven't grown quite as rapidly as you put the pedal to the metal but we're getting bigger. Well that's probably not true my first, two years were a big struggle I've been very, you know, very open about that until I finally started reading books and getting help and getting coaches a huge believer in that. I mean look you're a Tar Heel, right? or all right! and then, at least you, Michael Jordan didn't win three NBA championships and then say: you know what? I don't need a coach anymore, you know. We don't need Phil Jackson, like you're never done learning and so even coaches have coaches and even at the top, they're reading and they're learning every day and if you're in a growth mindset that's what's going to help you you know get out of, if you're stuck, and I think that's important now we don't only you know work with and probably the people listening aren't all entrepreneurs there's just lawyers at law firms and they're thinking to themselves hey you know I need an executive assistant right so we do we do offshore virtual staffing. We have legal secretaries, intake coordinators, receptionists, client happiness directors, personal assistants, executive assistants, marketing assistants and this can work for anybody and I mean not everyone just kind of like gets it and has a "haha" moment but sometimes people do but when they don't you know I'm trying to explain look this is not about replacing jobs this is about adding more bandwidth to your firm, this is about having some, you know, better margins at some point so you can breathe a little bit and not constantly be worried about payroll and it's about doing better for your clients and passing on all the things you can do and you have more people around to delegate to and you can focus on how do I get more A and B clients. Totally! One of the first lessons I learned when I opened my own practice was you got to leverage your time and you got to leverage technology and I think that's true whether you're a lawyer a doctor any sort of person doing any sort of job. I mean, the guys in my neighborhood this week they're putting a roof on a new house and you can see how they're using technology, you know, just to make it easier for them not to have to go up and down the ladder 30 times right and they figured out how to devise this a really cool winching system that's probably something somebody's been using forever but theirs looked fancier to me because it had a little motor on instead of having to be hand-pulled up yeah that's funny and so I mean that that's the same thing right you figure out a way to save a little bit of time and which is money and then and then you put that to use in your business. Yeah! And like you said funny you mentioned Phil Jackson that's the book i just started reading last night is 11 Rings by Phil Jackson so me and you always in the sports. Always see I didn't even know I mean, I'm sure I knew he wrote books but I haven't heard of that one yet but you know a fascinating guy for sure. Let me ask you this, so you know speaking of technology some people have this opinion, I guess and let's be fair right coronavirus has taken a lot of this away for us and for good for other people but I can't work with someone who's not in my office I need them right there, you know. What technology do you use to make sure that you're efficient with somebody that doesn't work in your office? Yeah! so right now we're working with a marketing assistant that's through your company Get Staffed Up and she's obviously not in the office, she's offshore she's in Mexico and she is a big Slack user and so you know, I had messed around with Slack a little bit honestly, I didn't like it that much because I found it to be too distracting because it was like always coming in and always you know. But that's what she likes to use I said okay, well train, make me a video show me how to use it show me how to be efficient with it, you know, and let's agree what we're going to use it for and you set up the channels based upon what we're going to be doing and let's try to keep our conversations in the proper channels and so like you know if she just wants to tell me something and she shared something she found on the internet that she thought was cool that doesn't have anything to do with marketing my business but might be about business tips or something like that she'll put it in a channel that's for that and then she's got a channel that's called ideas that doesn't send me notifications so she just drops ideas in there all day long as she thinks of them and then I can look at them at my convenience, but the other thing is and I got this from you too man, I think. We do a 9:07 huddle in the morning and so that's virtual we have a couple of team members who are still working from home in the states, I mean in my city in my hometown and so we do that and we got a conference room camera about three weeks ago called a Kandaov that we put in the middle of the conference room and it stitches in like a panoramic view of everybody that's in the conference room and then individual pictures of those of us who are speaking and it's picks up who's speaking when and so to switch the main speaker between stuff so you can use it in Zoom you can use it in Google meetups you can use it and I think Facebook allows you to use it now in their thing that they're doing. I don't know if outlooks teams is compatible with it or not but that's been cool because instead of like having one laptop at the morning huddle for those of us that are in-person kind of passing it around now those of us are socially distanced in our big conference room and we have this one thing we can look at the tv and we can see everybody there. So, and going back to huddles what we tell our clients is look this is not someone who's offshore so out of sight out of mind they need to be part of your team put them on the website you know have made them do a headshot in front in front of a green screen just hang up a green sheet. Make sure they have the right, you know technology which we work with our clients on and make sure they're part of your morning huddles and part of your weekly meetings and part of your retreats and and do Zoom happy hours, whatever it is make people feel a part of the team that's how you're going to get really good buy-in and loyalty and somebody that you feel like you're basically stealing because you have a marketing assistant and the price difference you know from here to what we're doing is very stark and so you know you you have the bandwidth and the wherewithal to take on projects all the ideas that that she's putting in the idea channel on Slack I mean what I loved about it is is I can have somebody's you know what let's try that but it's not so expensive because when you're paying someone in the US if it takes them three weeks to get back to you on something like a big project that's a lot of time and money that you just lost so there's just so so many benefits. Yeah! and you're totally right about including them you know she's on her when we have a firm email distribution list she's on the firm email distribution list you know like we said the huddle she's mostly just me and her on Slack nobody else in the law firm uses Slack you can get on me about that later but you know it's been really great she's been whooping my butt getting stuff done like I had a stack of nine marketing collateral pieces I had to review yesterday that had been piling up for like a week and a half and there's no way I could have put that out myself when I was being my own marketing assistant. Yeah! and that and that you were. Right because if you don't have an assistant you are an assistant, right? And you cannot argue that fact and so it just like, the amount of things and i not just the amount of things you can get done with a good marketing assistant but a lot of us have a million new ideas all the time and but it's very daunting to have all these ideas and again a lot of them aren't going to work some of them, you're going to say: ah! you know, that wasn't such a good idea a week later but it's very, it would give me a pit in my stomach when I would think about three good ideas in a row and like but how am I going to get them done so I'm like well let me go to my calendar let me rearrange everything so I can get all this important work done and create two days where I can go away myself and get all this marketing done it's like why put yourself through that when you can bring on help and you can that's why we call delegate your way to freedom because sometimes you can make yourself do everything if you get on a roll but it's not going to last you know you're going to run out of steam and without somebody to delegate to it's like it's like the proverbial shelf where things just stack up and I use that analogy all the time you literally had a stack of nine things right right but my mental shelf used to be so full of ideas it just was so daunting to think one day I'll get to that. Yeah! that and then all the stuff I had to learn about that I didn't need to learn about right I just needed to hire someone who already knew how to do it I mean I'm shooting my own video I figured out how to clip them I figured out how to convert bitrate you know all this other stuff that I was like what am I even doing this for? It takes me five minutes to shoot a video it takes me two hours to edit it. And I'm like, what am I doing? I could be doing client work I could be you know, hell I could be on a beach I could be wherever. Not now but. Or shooting a bunch more videos. I shoot a video and I'm done with it I don't touch anything from there and that's the beauty of wow! I really can exponentially increase my output when I've got other people doing things for me and by the way, at my law firm we've got everybody on a WhatsApp channel so you know they get to see the inside jokes and the memes and I think that helps people and the pictures of everyone's kids and that really makes people feel a part of the firm as well. We have that with Facebook it's called Mean Team and that's the that's the group name for the team but my marketing assistant is not on Facebook so maybe I need to investigate the WhatsApp. Interesting, yeah! Well you don't want too many different types of technology, right? I like I could consolidate. I don't love Slack either I'm kind of like you in that regard, but whatever works. I mean I think the point is that with technology and then what's called geographic arbitrage you know like in Miami I used to pay 60 000 a year when you include because whatever you're paying someone it's at least at a minimum 25 more is what the cost is to the business so if you're paying just to use round numbers if you're paying someone, you know 10 000 a year you have to tack on 2500 so all in I was about 60 and through get staffed up it's closer to 20 round numbers and I mean that's just such a huge difference that you can do other things in your business and have more time and more freedom. Right! or hire two assistants right because like the next thing coming off my plate is executive assistant which some of that's difficult for some of the things I want someone to do for somebody that's not in person because selfishly I want to be able to say: Hi my car needs inspection and some personal type things too, but maybe the executive assistant finds the local service that will handle that, you know. I have a solution, get an intern a few days per week ago that you. I'm serious because kids need to be around people like you that own a business right? Find a girl and inspire her to own her own business someday and it sounds like she'll be doing the dirty work but she'll be learning from you. So you still sometimes need that person in-house to say hey I need all our cars washed, the conference room needs to be clean and ready, whatever it is. I had those jobs and we still have in-house interns but your personal executive assistant they're the ones doing the dinner reservations, the flights, and all that important stuff, and they have all the folders and all the credit cards and all the things that you need as your personal. Cool, I'll check it out it is a good time to get an intern because pretty much everybody's going to have to go back to online learning. We tried in person in the good Tar Heels State, but The University of North Carolina is shipping everybody home now and going online. Jenny thank you so much for jumping on i mean, the thing you and I always end up talking about sports and we talk about entrepreneurship and and leadership and so I admire you, what you're doing you know you could have stayed where you were in in the previous firm but you wanted to live your own life and I just love that and so thank you for jumping on and helping other people learn from what you're doing. Sure and thank you for having this idea with Enrique to do Get Staffed Up because it's helping a ton of us grow even faster because we're getting more bandwidth yeah! that's exactly what the goal is I love hearing that you know Awesome Jenny! thank you! You have a good one stay safe up there, all right? all right Brett, you too! okay take care 