 Hi guys my name is Mimi and  welcome to my home based story So for today's topic. I will share with you  how to earn $700-$1000 per month as a virtual assistant As you all know this is my work So I will share with you what Virtual assistants do what skills you need to learn as a VA or that you should have How much is the salary range Just the range guys, ok? And where you can apply so make sure you stay tune until the end because I will share with you all the right places where you can look for openings if you want to be a Virtual assistant working at home. Let's start. For those who have no idea yet what is a virtual assistant ? Virtual assistant. coining from the term itself is "Virtual" meaning your work will be online not face to face. You are an assistant in a terms that you're going to assist. You're going to help your client from other places with their work. It's the same as being a Personal Assistant somewhat like a helper sometimes an all around helper The scope of work of a VA is broad. So I will share with you today my experiences as a Virtual assistant. There are a lot of different kinds of a Virtual assistant Many are real estate virtual assistant meaning your client is a real estate agent or a broker There are some that are business owners There really are a lot of different kinds of VA and the scope is so broad you really have to be versatile when it comes to the job duties and responsibilities So I will share with you what are the skills that are usually required. So you need to have admin skills. What are the admin skills so that would include Back end jobs like typing entering data which are easy because we already did this in school, right? You know how to use Microsoft office however nowadays we don't usually use Office because Clients prefer to do it online with google drive So google drive is the same with Microsoft office. Instead of MS Word they have Google Docs Instead of MS Excel they have Google Sheets Apart from that you need to have attention to detail It's important because you're going to be swamped with a lot of data and you need to enter them correctly And then as Admin you should know how to manage social media which means you should know the in's and out's of facebook, instagram how to run ads because if they want to promote some content you have to set up a Facebook ad. Manage FB pages this would also include a little bit of search engine optimization. Meaning you need to know how to put captions or tags that is relevant to the content that you're going to post. It depends on the content what your client requires. A common skill that is a plus and required is basic photo editing. Examples are, fixing photo orientation. If the photo is misaligned, you need to correct it or if it's dark you will brighten it just basic skills guys But of course if you are knowledgeable in Photoshop Illustrator then that's definitely a plus. But if you are just starting out you only need to have basic skills. You can use the built in application on your computer in case of windows 10 you can use Photos. Just right click the picture then choose edit Then all the options are there You can brighten, crop, or fix the orientation. So that's pretty easy for photo editing. What are the other skills... You also need to know  how to handle phone calls. But not all VA's job requires you to handle calls. Like in my case, I rarely do phone calls I'm more on marketing side But you should be able to speak well or at least you can converse well in English because as an assistant sometimes your client will ask you to call someone like, "hey can you reserve or can you book us a restaurant for a meeting?" So whoever you're calling, should be able to understand you. You need to be familiar in call handling because sometimes your client will ask "Hey, I'm busy. Can you take in my calls today?" So you need to know basic call etiquette. For me marketing. I'm creating marketing materials which includes flyers, postcards any information that they want to print and be distributed to their prospective customers I'm also in charge of that You need to know how to create presentation, for example they are going to present at a seminar or at a conference. You are going to create presentation for them like slides and then their manage contacts in their database. Usually clients database are already set before you start. You are not going to create database from scratch, that's a different story. what it's like for me is.. the client is going to take a picture of the business card then he will send it to me via email. "Can you enter this on our database?" then it's up to me to enter their name, their last name, phone number, email. It will all be categorized in there so in the future if we are going to contact this person then the client can easily pull it off of the database. It's already digitized. I also compile files in my previous work. It was sales I was assisting the operations manager. Part of it is creating a report. You are going to set up the sheet or excel then you will enter there all the sales number of sales, total number of cancellations You are going to prepare it like and end of day or end of week report and submit it to your client So you also need to know how to how to analyze. You don't need intensive experience or knowledge like knowing how to Pivot in excel. But at least you need to know  how to analyze and interpret data. I think those are the basics that you need to know so just to summarize Admin work Database management Social media management Basic photo editing Presentation skills and Call handling Very few, right? Being a virtual assistant covers a lot of skills and different types of work but the bottom line is that six skills that I shared. It will all fall in that category. If you have those skills and it's something that  you're very familiar in doing then go for it go go go... go If you're interested in working from home just start right away. If it doesn't work out you can always try for another one. Now let's talk about the salary. So the range of salary for a virtual assistant this is the competitive rate of salary so make sure if you have all those skills and more then don't short sell yourself make sure you negotiate well with your client. The range would be from $700 - $1000 in a month. Sounds good, right? That would be around 35k to 50k pesos Imagine. That's a big help in the household expenses. If you guys are looking at that range, I would definitely recommend starting out and trying applying as a virtual assistant. I highly recommend this. So this is what I promised earlier. Where can you apply? Make sure you take this down if you're interested in applying as a virtual assistant you can try applying first in onlinejobs.ph they have over 50 thousand openings in that website alone, just for Filipinos. Make sure that you check out their website and register there I made a separate video on how you can create your onlinejobs.ph account and how to get high ID proof make sure you check it I posted the link up there and it's gonna be also in the description box below. You also have upwork I also created a video on how to create an account there and the third is Facebook groups There are a lot of groups there. You can try Virtual assistant network Philippines Homebased call center Philippines I'm going to show it you on this side because I can't remember it all. But just check all these groups ok So in case I forget to mention anything I know this is not very detailed due to confidentiality purposes I really cannot share with you exactly what I'm doing everyday however I think I covered all of it. If you have questions don't hesitate to ask. If you like this video give it thumbs up, comment your reactions and I will get back to you right away. So this is it for now and I will see you again on my next video. Thanks for watching Bye 