 Has your agency ever had to deal with a client that micromanaged every single thing that you did? To the point where you thought to yourself “why do they even bother to pay me for what I do”? These are people that don’t know how to delegate, they don’t know how to let go and they get stuck because they are the bottleneck in their business. But don’t let this be you. In this video, I will tell you what tasks you can outsource to virtual assistants so that you’ll NEVER turn into the bottleneck for your agency. If you want tips and advice on how to scale your agency profitably, press the subscribe button and be updated with new videos every Wednesday. Hi, I’m Linh Podetti, founder of Outsourcing Angel, an outsourcing agency with a virtual team of over 70 around the world. I help marketing agencies scale their business profitably and since starting my first digital marketing agency in 2010, I’ve built multiple 6 and 7 figure agencies that are thriving thanks to outsourcing. As you are growing your agency, you will get to a point where you realise that you just don’t have enough time in the day to complete all of the tasks that are necessary for growing your business. This is what I personally experienced when I first started my business and this led me towards realising the true potential and power of outsourcing. So if you’re new to this, you’re probably thinking - what tasks should I outsource? These tasks typically fall into 2 categories: - Category 1: Time-consuming and repetitive tasks that you can easily be passed onto someone else with minimal training. - Category 2: Tasks that you’re naturally not skilled at such as graphic design, web development or copywriting. If you’ve never stopped to assess what these tasks are - how about you hit that pause button right now and try to list at least 3 things that fall into either category 1 or 2 that you could outsource to a Virtual Assistant? When I first started my first agency, I outsourced from day 1. Because I didn’t know how to do anything from Category 2. So all 3 mentioned tasks, such as graphic design, web development, copywriting, were all the tasks I needed help with. If you’ve tried to list a few tasks but you’re still stuck or have problems deciding on which tasks you’re comfortable with delegating elsewhere, let me take you through the most common services that get outsourced to our Virtual Assistants: 1. Customer Support You can hand over your customer service enquiries and community management over to your friendly Virtual Assistants. They can assist by responding to customer service emails, questions that you receive via your chat tool, social media accounts or even comments you receive on your blogs or forums. 2. Administration Administration tasks are things like data entry, reporting and online research. In fact, one of the administration tasks that my Virtual Assistants are helping me for these YouTube Videos on our Outsourcing Angel Channel is keyword research, video uploading and video transcriptions. 3. Copywriting & Content Content is king when it comes to dominating the internet, so if you’re busy looking after your clients, you can assign your Virtual Assistant to copywriting tasks to keep your blogs, emails and sales copies up to date. They can also schedule and publish it all for you. 4.Marketing and Social Media Your Virtual Assistant can assist you with managing all your social media channels - this includes creating and scheduling content as well as managing your online community. 5. Graphic Design If you don’t have a graphic design background, don’t try to learn it as you go - you’ll just waste your time and energy on a task that your Virtual Assistant is already skilled to do. They can create social media graphics, infographics, logo designs, whatever you need to spruce up your marketing material or website. 6. Web Development Local web developers can be very expensive, even for the smallest website changes. If you outsource your web development to one of our skilled technical Virtual Assistants, they can create website designs, wireframes and landing pages for a fraction of the price. So by now, I’ve covered some of the most common tasks that agencies outsource to their Virtual Assistants. I hope that this has given you some ideas on what you could outsource from your agency in order to free up your time and scale towards success. If you need help with recruiting, training and managing your Virtual Assistants - we look after everything from beginning to end for you here at Outsourcing Angel. For a limited time only, we’re also offering all new clients their first week free - so click on the link in the description below for more details on our introductory offer and have a chat with our friendly team about your specific needs. Before you go, I have a question for you: If money was not a problem, what 3 things in your business would you outsource today? Share in the comments below. Thanks so much for watching and if you like this video, please give me a thumbs up and subscribe so you can be notified about my next video where I’m going to share with you how you can hire A VA To Manage Your Clients. Thank you, bye. 