 Hello, Boss Babes and Bosses out there. Maybe you are watching this video because you want to create your own LinkedIn account, maybe you just want to know why LinkedIn is important or maybe you just want to know what are the tips on how to optimize your LinkedIn account as a freelancer or maybe you are a Virtual Assistant or a Social Media Manager or you're a Web Developer or Graphic Designer, whatever it is, you just want to create an optimized LinkedIn account so that clients can easily find you. So, yes. You are correct. We are going to do that right now and you're going to learn all of those things but this is not the typical video that I'm creating because I'm collaborating with Cenry Molinos. She is a LinkedIn Strategist and Email Copywriter for more than a year now. And all of her clients are coming from LinkedIn so I really didn't hesitate to ask help from her to teach us on how to create and optimize our LinkedIn account. So, yeah. Guys, I would really say that before we are going to start, pause this video, and grab notebook and pen to write the tips that she'll be giving. Before I dive in, let me introduce myself first, I'm Suzie and I create contents about Work-from-home, Productivity, Self-development, and Freelancing Lifestyle. So, if you like all those kind of topic, please, don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel and hit the bell button down below so that you'll get notified every time I upload a new video. And I would really highly encourage you to watch the whole video because I just optimized my LinkedIn account last night. And from this one, it became like this. So, please, please, please, please, take note of all the tips that she'll say and apply that to your own LinkedIn account. The power of keywords and everything she said that you could apply to your LinkedIn account is indeed effective. So, hopefully, you'll learn a lot from this video. So, yeah. Without further ado, let's dive in. "Hi, sis." "Hello. Guys, this is my first time introducing how to use LinkedIn for freelancers and for all the beginners. LinkedIn is a social media platform but it is more on business site. So, it's okay to pitch there. But there's a proper way to do it. In order for us to start with, I'll introduce first "What is LinkedIn?" Why do we hear it often and how important it is in our careers? "What is LinkedIn and how can I use it?" LinkedIn is the world's largest professional network on the internet. So, you can use LinkedIn to find the right job or internship, connect and strengthen professional relationships, and learn the skills you need to succeed in your career. So, when you say LinkedIn, it's another level. It's not just like Facebook where you can post what your mood is or what you are doing. So, it's a professional network. Once you create a LinkedIn profile, it will allow you to share your professional background online such as your work experience, education, skills, and recommendations. You can also use LinkedIn to organize offline events, join groups, write articles, post photos and videos, and more. So, it's more on socializing with professional background. Why do we need to create our Linkedin profile? We always have to remember that "Our network is our net worth." So, whoever we connect to on LinkedIn is very important because that's where our conversation with people begins. Our environment is different now, almost everything is now online. When you created a profile here on LinkedIn, you already have an online resume and then, at the same time, you can socialize with other professionals. You can add them, the CEO of Coca-Cola, the CEO of Microsoft, you can connect with them here on LinkedIn. The people that you can saw here on LinkedIn is someone looking to navigate their professional life. This includes the small business owners, students, recruiters, and job seekers. So, you can reach out to a big network on LinkedIn, not just CEOs. You can see on Linkedin if there's a hiring company. You can message them and once you sent a message and you already built a profile on LinkedIn, that's one thing to boost your profile. So, how do we get started on LinkedIn? First of all, of course, we have to create a profile. It's this one. When you search "linkedin.com" this will be the homepage. And then, if you want to sign-up, just click "Join now" Enter your email address and then your password and then "Agree & Join" When you click that one, there will be some follow-up questions more on personal information that I'm sure you can fill out. This is LinkedIn's homepage. This is the news feed where you can see people you connected with, their updates and content. And then, let's go to our profile. This is my LinkedIn profile. This serves as my online resume or CV. So, imagine, as you sign-up on LinkedIn, and your profile is optimized, and once you start connecting to the target audience that you want to become your client, or you want to hire you, you need to find time to update this profile because this is the very first thing that they'll see. It's the first thing they'll view. So, our photo must be professional-looking. Our facial features should be well-seen. We shouldn't be looking somewhere far and our face shouldn't look different. We should be formal. And then, this one, the background photo, you should put something here too so that whoever you connect with, could see what you're doing. As for me, I'm a LinkedIn Strategist, I have my own tagline. Like this, "Helping founders and B2B industries turn connections into a client." So, after signing up, upload a profile photo first, and the background photo. Always find time to create those. Where they can reach you out aside from LinkedIn? Put your email address. Just in case, they are looking for someone who has specific skills that you have, they can message you immediately. For example, you haven't replied to them yet on Linkedin within three days, then they can just email you. At least, you already have provided information. They can reach out to you easily. And then, this is the tagline. It's also important because as you go to the homepage, you'll already see it on the profile of the people who comment on your content, or those who post. This is the tagline, which is the one I showed earlier. So, you should really have that one. Indicate your tagline, who is the market you want to help or your audience like "Helping e-commerce store generate more sales with their business." And then indicate there your title like "E-commerce Website Designer" So, indicate that one so that they can easily know what you are doing. So, you can see the "About Page". Let's zoom in. So, I stated my tagline again for them not to forget what I do, how can I help them, or what problem can I solve. And always find time to add details on what do you do in two sentences and then what market are you trying to help or audience you help. And put one promising testimonial. But since you're just starting out, you can skip first the testimonials or any recommendations. Plus, put some details about yourself like What are you into? Are you into sports? Are you into fashion? So that they can at least relate in a matter that isn't all about the business. So that people reading your profile can also relate that you can share not only professional matters. You also have a personal touch. And then, never forget to put call-to-action, or where they get contact you like what I've earlier, your email address. And if you have a Bookeo or Calendly where they can directly book a call with you, put it in your profile. And next is the "Featured" section. For this part, you upload here the certificates you have. I've joined an online course and they gave me a certificate, this one is for digital marketing. So, just the basic information or or expertise that you have, share it here in the Featured section. It's like a summary of your service. If you have a portfolio, include it here. If you have built a website, share your designs here. If you've created a brand on other social media platform, share it here. Take advantage of this featured section. These are those who viewed my profile, my articles, since you can also post articles here on LinkedIn, and then my search appearances. For example, you've put a keyword on your account, like as for me, my keyword here is "LinkedIn lead generation". I stated something here and here in the "Experience", I included it. So, when someone searches for "LinkedIn lead generation", my profile appears because LinkedIn's SEO is also very powerful. So, when you search a basic term, for example, "Project Management", when you search for that type of skills, your profile could also appear as long as the keywords you included are appropriate. And for the "Experience", always find time to put all your experiences and also the description of what you do. It also has a section for your "Education background" and the certificate that you got. Like, I also got a certificate for LinkedIn. Because here on LinkedIn, they also have courses and learning skills that you can get for you to have a license and certification on LinkedIn to boost your profile. And for the "Skills and Endorsements" section, the connections you have on LinkedIn, as you give them basic information that helped them, you'll just get surprised because they will automatically give you endorsement and points. Like Britx, let's look at her profile. She has here "Skills and Endorsements" so, to endorse her, I'll just click this. The plus sign "+" and then "Highly-skilled" and then it's like we "Worked together indirectly" that means I've already seen her works and I'm like "Oh, she's great. Okay. I'll endorse her." And then, your skills have been endorsed and they'll also give you a recommendation. Like, if there are 90's babies here, just like before in Friendster where they give us testimonials. Here on LinkedIn, it's the "Recommendations". So, they give recommendations once they liked your works or you've helped them. And then, here's the "Interests" section. As for me, as a freelancer, it's very important to have a LinkedIn profile. Because Upwork and OnlineJobs.ph or FreeUp, they have a salary cut. For example, you got a client from Upwork, and that client pays you $11 per hour, Upwork will have a share on that. You can't get it full. Unlike here on LinkedIn, I'll have a free profile, I'll also have a client where I can get my full salary. That's why it's very important to me. Once you've created your profile, that's when you'll start to build your network. That's why it's also important to know who are the target people you want to connect with on LinkedIn. Are they CEOs in the financial industry? CEOs in the real estate industry? We have to know who are we going to connect with on LinkedIn. You can also see job posts on LinkedIn. They indicate here their company name and then "We're Hiring" So, from that, you can easily find jobs once you search on LinkedIn. Here, "Jobs", then you'll see "Jobs based on your Profile." So, putting keywords in your profile is really important. Because as you search for jobs, LinkedIn will automatically generate results that are suitable for you. And it's also important here to participate in conversations. Like when we saw a post that resonates with us. Let's look for one. Okay, like this one. So, let's like it and if you want to share something, you can comment like "This is gold. I like what you said." And from that, we can start a conversation with this person. And they should be your target audience or your ideal client. That's why it's important to have a list of your ideal clients. I know Britzie have a tutorial on how to create your own ideal client profile. For example, if your ideal client has a podcast, so this one, you can connect with him. So, like that. We're not connected yet. So, when you go to his account, you'll only see the "Follow" button. On mobile, you can easily connect. Just click "Connect" and you'll be connected. But him, what he did is that he hid the "Connect" button feature probably because there are lots of people who send connection requests to him that has no introduction. So, we should send an introduction with a message. "Hi, Mano! I saw your..." Unlike with other platforms where we can just send friend requests, even though we don't know him. How can we accept them? Here on LinkedIn, we were given a chance to send an introduction message to whom we want to connect with. So, imagine receiving a message like this from someone you don't know, and he said something nice. Will you accept the invitation or not? So, there's a higher chance for your invitation to be accepted because you find time to send a message to them. Even just a simple introduction. Even just a short message to say that, "Oh, I've seen your comment in this post and I liked it. Can I connect with you? Can I add you to my network?" So, send the invitation and then, just wait for his approval to add you to his network. And then, last but not the least, you can post your own content. It can be a picture, it can be a text, or if you're hiring, you can do this one. You can create a poll, like, you can ask them "What's the best content?" Then put options. "Video, Long form" something like that. You need to create a conversation on LinkedIn. Not just a post. For now, as a beginner, I can say that you may start creating your profile and then build your network. And then, participate in conversations. "I have a question. First, I learned a lot from your tutorial. Actually, I've been using LinkedIn for a while now. I think I haven't maximized it yet because I still learned a lot from you. My first question is that is there a proper way or proper layout for it to look better or it's as is where we just list the job responsibilities?" "For me, on LinkedIn, it's better if it's itemized. So they can easily see what can you do. Like, what are your skills? So that they can browse it easily. You need to place yourself in their shoes, if you were to view their profile, will you read everything? You have to make it easier for them to read what's on your profile. Make it short and simple." "Okay. So, it's better if it's on bullet points. Right? Do you create contents ahead of time? "Yes. Ahead of time. I have it in Google Docs. I put there all the content. I look for inspirational posts on LinkedIn. Let's say, the big influencers like Simon Sinek, they share on LinkedIn, Gary V. So, when they share something, I save it and then I just get some thoughts from their content and then I create my own content from that. Like, what can I say from their content? I'll just make some changes from their content and then I'll use it in my own words." "Yeah. That's a nice way of creating content because mostly, content creators run out of topics too, right? So, do you use a scheduler or do you post it manually?" "I post it manually because I think LinkedIn doesn't have a scheduler yet like on Facebook or Hootsuite, I really don't use scheduler. I like to post manually because I really can't trust applications they might not post my content that's why sometimes, I really prefer to post manually." "Is LinkedIn the same as Instagram and YouTube algorithm where after posting and someone engaged, within one hour or 30 minutes, you have to engage with them to push it up on the news feed or LinkedIn's algorithm doesn't work like that?" "It's the same on LinkedIn. Within one hour or 30 minutes after posting, someone should've engaged already for you to engage back. For the post to have a high reach. Because for instance, for example, you commented on my content, and you have a network that saw that you commented on my post, They will see it even if we're not connected. There is a wider network that could be reached on LinkedIn, like the second-degree, third-degree connection even if you're not yet connected for as long as you left a comment on a post, and it will be seen by a second-degree connection from your end, so there's a big possibility that you'll reach a wider network." "Ah. So, their algorithm is pretty much the same." "Yeah. It's just that LinkedIn is a business platform, it's not just a..." "Social media platform." "...where you can post anything. Yeah" "For the keywords, you mentioned it earlier. I also haven't maximized it on my LinkedIn account. because I'm not focused on keywords. For example, I want to be hired as a Digital Marketing Manager, should I focus on "Digital Marketing Manager" keyword? How may I know what keywords to use?" "Good point. That's a good question. You should focus on one skill only on LinkedIn. If you want to push through Project Management on LinkedIn, that's what you should put in your About section, Experience section, so that you can have a higher chance to appear in the search box. When they search for a Project Manager, they will see your profile on the first page. Because SEO on LinkedIn is also high. As for my experience, there are instances where I'm curious about how they searched me. What I do is that I look through the "Search Appearances" "Is there something like that? Can we see that?" "Yeah. I look through it as to what they usually look for that made my profile appear on their searches. Like this and like that." "Ah, okay. I just heard about that now." "You can see. Those are the keywords that are being used by people who view your profile." "Where your profile appears?" "Yes." "Oh, okay. Nice." "There is also a feature in LinkedIn where you can set "Open to job opportunities" Like here, it's already open and it's set only for recruiters. So, you just have to optimize your profile from time to time. If it's growing, or how many views." "Where can I change the option like only for recruiters? Let me check my own. Let me share my screen so that they could also see. Can you see my screen?" "There. Yes." "Oh here. Show recruiters...job." "Yes. That's it." "So, I'll just click this "Get Started" and then I'll put the job title I want?" "Yes. And the job type" "Oh. So I can delete this Founder. Oh, okay. For the job location, what if I like it to be remote only?" "Probably, you can try putting it on the job type. Because what I did on the location is the location of my target clients. USA, Canada, those are the countries I selected. And for the job type, I selected remote. For them to know that I'm outside their country." "So, only recruiters can see this?" "Yeah. You can also select "All LinkedIn members." Okay. So, I'll select "Remote" and then "Add to Profile" "There's a lot." And then, this one, "Showcase Services" "Your skills. Like graphic design, website design. Just put everything. Because once you selected your skills, you'll be surprised to reach a number of people. When someone searches, you'll get a high number of profile views. You'll be surprised by your viewers' number." This one, Sis. It's very important, right? "You can post it as open for business. So that when someone views it, they'll say "Oh, I can hire her." or they'll inquire on your services. And here, Sis. I think what I don't have is the solid testimonial you mentioned earlier, if you already worked with someone before. "Yes." And call-to-action. "And for the what do you do right now, you can have two sentences only. And then, jump into your personal touch. And then, add a testimony from your previous client. Like something that is easier to read. And then, don't forget your call-to-action, or where they can reach you just in case you're not online on LinkedIn." That's nice. And oh, here it is, Sis. This is what you're talking about. The search appearance. I will take a look at it. "And it can be optimized more." Yes. Then I will send it to you and please check if it's okay with you.  "Alright." "And you still have one free trial for premium. You can use that. If I were you, use Sales Navigator so that you can find clients that need project management. I'm sure there's a lot." How? "Use that. On LinkedIn, they have free services and paid services. So, to boost your LinkedIn profile, we have to take advantage of the premium trial. For you, Sales Navigator would be better. Because that's where you can find your ideal client. You would see the industry you'd want to target. If you have top 10 company that you want to work with, you'll see it in the Sales Navigator. That's why if I were you, avail the free trial." But I've already availed this one before. How many months is it? "One month. You have one again. Choose "To find leads more effectively." so that you find clients.". This one. "There. Navigator professional." Professional. This one. "Reactivate for free" "Yeah. That's for free. For example, now, since you have to enter your credit card information there, so, just set a reminder for next month, July 13. Cancel your subscription so that your card wouldn't be automatically charged. And then, this one, I need to change this like something you said earlier, the email address, and such to optimize my banner. I'm so excited. "Because they could easily see your contact information and where they can reach out to you. Take advantage of that cover photo." Yes. Hopefully, our viewers, the Boss Up group, would also create their profile. And don't forget to connect with us. Cenry Molinos and Britzie Suzie Solatorio. so that we can also check your work. So, yeah. Thank you so much, Sis. I learned a lot and I need to attend. And make a time to maximize my profile on LinkedIn. Thank you so much. "Welcome. Thank you, as well." And guys, I will just put all the social media accounts of Cenry so you could follow her. And you can also connect with her on LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook. I'll just put the links in the description box and also to my social media accounts where I'll post this video so you can follow her. And yeah. I'm excited to work on our LinkedIn profile. So, thank you so much for giving us time and for teaching us how to create an effective LinkedIn profile. "You're welcome. Thank you, Sis." Thank you so much. Bye! So, Sis Cenry said that our banner should be optimized. So, my banner here is not optimized. Let's try doing it on Canva, our best friend when it comes to graphics. Let's look for something that is connected to the color I chose for our branding. So, let's see. Maybe we can choose this for now. Let's just delete this. And this one, maybe we can change this to our colors. Here, you can put your color palette.  Oh, come on, guys. It's not a good idea that it's placed here.    So, that's that. I hope you learn a lot from Cenry Molinos' tips and strategies on how to create your own LinkedIn account. Because I learned a lot even I've been using LinkedIn for a while now, I still have a lot to apply on my own LinkedIn account. So, before, even my account isn't optimized, I'm already getting messages from clients. How much more now that it's more optimized and I'm more more visible to clients? So, guys, I am really excited for you to apply this to your own LinkedIn account and please, I highly encourage you to connect with us, both, so that also we can check if how's your profile going. So, our LinkedIn profile is in the link below. You can click that one to connect with us. As always, before I'm going to end this video, I'm going to flex the work of my Boss Babes and Bosses inside my group. So, check this out.  So, if you like to be part of our family, just research "I'm Ready to Boss Up by BritxSui" and also don't forget to follow me on my Instagram account and hit like on our Facebook page "BossedUp PH" And don't forget to subscribe to my channel and hit the bell button down below because our next video is how to create and optimize Instagram account so that you can get clients from there. So, yeah. See you on my next one. Bye! [Music] 