 JOHN COHN: Hi I'm John Cohn. I'm an IBM fellow and chief scientists for our Munich IoT headquarters. My job is to help set the agenda for the entire headquarter building, including clients that we bring in, the experience that we give them, the demos that we show them, and to engage with them and try to figure out how do we map what they need to what we know how to do. And it's really been fun. I spend half my time in Munich and half my time in Vermont. I average about south of Iceland I think. I think IoT is moving so fast that the most important thing is to start instrumenting your whatever it is that you make - whether it's you know wash machines, cars, gadgets, industry processes -  is start getting the data because we're entering a phase where it's all about data and those devices are emitting data and we're just not using it. So start by actually getting your hands dirty start pulling the data out and looking for those insights. And then I think then after you've started to do that I would step back and actually look at okay what could I do to actually transform my business you know - what would be the most amazing thing if I could. Most of our big transformations start with that you know if I could. You know it's very easy to just focus on the operational efficiency etc and that's a good place to start, but real transformation comes from saying ok now that I've got all this information what can I do to transform. So it's really been interesting to me because I am a hands-on nerd I mean you know first class nerd. I like building stuff etc. And what this job has really helped me, you know, transform myself is I've had to become kind of a business guy because it turns out that a lot of the transformation is you know the technology is an enabler but the business thought if you look at the Ubers or Airbnb days of the world - that's those those big changes are not just technology. So I've had to start thinking of like you know. For example companies like Daimler have been able to transform a car into a service, into you know car2go and the way that you do that is yeah you need to instrument the device and you need to be able to unlock and lock it, but the business model of I want a car now -  you know just let me pick it up and run with it - that was a business innovation that is enabled by IoT. So I've started to have to think like a businessman. I would not want to tell any of my nerd friends that. IoT is kind of in its infancy and when I think about the next couple of years the major change is going to be about convenience and of being able to take devices get the data online securely automatically and keep them under management some of that basic blocking and tackling is still very much more complicated than it needs to be. And I think you know companies like IBM are making it so much easier to be able to snap your devices into our platform you know. That's a precursor for being able to do anything with the data so I think over the next couple of years that's going to become a whole lot easier. Technologies like blockchain, for example, which you know think about IoT and blockchain in the same sentence it really is a nice idea where you're going to be able to recognize a device from the first get go and configure everything about it and maintain it without a whole lot of handwork to make that happen I think that's going to be a lot of improvement in the next couple of years. My personal belief is that the combination of technologies like blockchain which allow you to articulate you know change ownership negotiate management and do things like payments when that mixes with artificial intelligence where we're gonna start seeing is that devices become more autonomous. That they're you know we think about autonomous cars but you're gonna have autonomous appliances and what that means is they're going to be able to negotiate with other entities whether it's for electrical processes for peer devices in your house etc t- o set up and negotiate how they should communicate when they run etc, when they change ownership. Everything would actually become sort of ability to negotiate. Think about this imagine a freight container okay that is now an instrumented device. Imagine each freight container kind of looking at the information out in the world and saying weather, political situation, traffic, etc and negotiating on behalf of its contents. Let's say it's something perishable. What's the fastest cheapest most reliable way to get from point A to point B. That's all centralized right now and it's very disjoint. I believe a future where we actually have device kind of acting democratically with each other more autonomously and I know it's gonna happen. What I love about my job is I'm on the cusp of two really growing technologies. So IoT is really coming to it into its own where you've got so many things connected, but the rest of the company is actually coming on strong with artificial intelligence with Watson. Cognitive computing and the two of those to be able to make things that think is really really amazing because it's not just actually being able to take the data from devices from cars from appliances,from your home and actually use technology like Watson to be able to understand what it's thinking you know to be able to anticipate what's going to happen etc. That's one thing, but the opposite is so exciting that you can actually infuse that incredible intelligence into everything into any little thing, into a toy, into an appliance, etc and basically have the working knowledge in the entire world available in every device. So being on the cusp of those two technologies coming together and watching it grow so just it's the most exciting time I've had in 40 years in this industry. 