 ANDERSON: Well, thank you. It is...I'm very glad that everybody came back from lunch. You never know when you're right after something like that where everyone is going to be. I've been consulting with the industry now for 35 years. You might not recognize with my youthful good looks. In the last 10, I've been going around the world as the general manager and now managing director for the global electronics industry. And if there's one skill that you have to have at IBM if you're in charge of the electronics industry, it's humility, because as you saw this morning, I have one of my former CEO clients, Harriet Green, now inside of IBM. She knows exactly how the industry works. I've got John Kelly -- who essentially runs a patent machine inside of IBM -- as one of my resources to really give me an opinion. And I have all of you who are...what make up essentially those that are from electronics and those that aren't are very much into all of the patents and one of the most creative industries that really exists on the planet. Now, I was telling this all to my wife one day and she basically said, and they picked you to lead this? And after she got up, you know, the floor, started laughing, I basically said, listen, I said, my core skill here is actually listening. I've gotten very good at realizing there's a lot of smart people in the electronics industry and I've got very good at listening. So, last year, what we did was we with actually ran an online jam. And we asked questions about how people were going to manage their way through the Internet of Things to go from being traditional product companies and really becoming an Internet of Things-based company, really becoming a cognitive company. And we ran the jam for 48 hours, 48 hours continuously. We had over 2,000 participants from 58 countries; 300 of the participants were C-level executives, but this was not just a technical exchange. And if you do that math, that is about a hundred thousand hours of potential ideas that were recorded. And if you think about that, it's really about 4,000 days, which is about 11 years of input. Now, even I am not that good of a listener. All right. I don't have the time do that. And so, what we did was we actually used some of our cognitive tools to pull out of this three big themes. Three big learnings that we're going to talk about today. So, the first one that you're seeing here is things as agents. And as we look at that, I'm sorry. I wanted to just build this very quickly here so that everybody could see the answers. There we go. Back. We're there? Good. So, as you look at these things, I want to tell you a couple stories about the stories that people told us that really kind of resonated as we saw these. So, the first thing is as you look at your products, they have really become not sort of the dumb products that we would send out and hope that we never heard from again because if you heard from them again, they were probably getting returned because there was a problem. And now, we really want our products to kind of phone home. And really tell us what is going on. Are you working? Are you happy? Are you hungry? Whatever your product actually does. And the second thing we figured out is that none of the product development organizations in electronics really had the end-to-end capability to deliver all this themselves. They all had to partner and to be honest, many of our companies really were more closed than they were open. So, cooperating in order to take some of the complexity out of really driving a lot of these products into the market. And then the third big learning that they came away with Watson it's a new order of business. You know, I asked some of our panelists, some of our roundtable participants yesterday, what kind of a model are you really running inside your company as you try to get in Internet of Things. Is it more there's like two crazy guys off in the corner who think this is a good idea? Or, have you set up at least a core group to kind of help everybody migrate their products? Or, have you actually created an entirely new division? And those were the kind of comments we were getting from the 2,000 participants, how do we organize around this? And so as you look at the bottom, when you think about things as an agent, you really now have an entire new product lifecycle. You have to think about exactly when your customer is going to open up your products. How can you make that experience better using IoT, using cognitive technology? When he's using your product, how, again, can you make that experience better? When he has problems, how can you do customer service now that you have that connection and you have actually real-time information on was going on inside that product? And when he's done with it, what do you want him to do? Maybe that's a sales opportunity. So, again, that entire experience that thing as an agent really restructures the boundaries between electronics companies and the other industry participants. The second thing is we looked at more the idea of cooperation, collaboration through very complex product development processes. The key point coming away from that was you had to learn how to be an orchestrator. Now, how many companies really set up their R&D, set up their product development under the assumption, I'm not talking about just dealing with suppliers of technology, of getting together with three or four other companies as equals and solving a problem for the market. This is a new way of doing business. And as you kind of heard about this morning, that is really where things are going and that came through loud and clear. And then finally, when you look at your internal organization, it is probably built around a product mentality. You have built supply chains around this. You have built departments around this. Have you ever thought about the fact that you now have a tsunami of sensor data coming at that you have probably no idea what problems that can solve for you. And if what you do, like many of your early IoT deployment companies did, they really just started to stockpile this data. And if you look at companies that have really had exceptional valuations over the last decade, they have been data-driven companies. They have been guys who started with the idea that data was an asset. They have exploited that data to make sure that these are things that their business is taking advantage of. Imagine if somebody like Facebook had asked you for 25 bucks to start using their system. All right? Would they have actually built the kind of data that they have collected now? And it's really the basis of their evaluation. And when you look at your own companies, and you start to think about the data you're collecting with all these sensors, what is your corporate strategy with that? What do you plan to do? Because it's going to be coming at you very quickly. Now, let's hear from some of our customers and partners who are creating the future of this industry. These companies are putting genius in their products and solutions today, turning things into agents. In fact, let me give you an example. Please welcome our first panelist, Darko Dragicevic from Bragi. Darko is executive vice president, partners and solutions at Bragi. And Bragi is putting the intelligence of Watson IoT into their Dash headphones creating a new experience for workers as well as consumers. Let's see how.  The future of workforce communication and safety has arrived. Fitness wearables and now hearables have advanced beyond the domain of the health conscious consumer and entered the workplace. It's the Bragi Dash in ear microcomputer featuring the cognitive power of Watson IoT. Where your workers are concerned, safety is paramount. Protect your employees by monitoring vital signs as well as detecting falls, abnormal behavior and air quality threats. Avoid false alarms. Direct your team in all situations with in ear instruction. Keep your staff informed, from timely information to imagine alerts, ensuring news is accessible in even the loudest environments. The Bragi Dash with Watson IoT will help you optimize your workforce with work time management and easy task recording and sharing. Experience a new kind of freedom. Let your teamwork hands free with control by voice commands and gesture feedback. Overcome language barriers with built-in translation. Bragi Dash with the cognitive power of Watson IoT. ANDERSON: So, you just saw how Bragi is putting Genius in the workplace; now let's see how Harman is doing that. Please welcome Kevin Hague, vice president of technology strategy at Harman International. Harman has put Watson IoT into their products in a variety of settings such as the hospital, conversation room and hotel. Let's hear about that. TARKIAINEN: What we're showing here is our partnership with IBM Watson and how we can use that to develop voice enabled cognitive rooms. Hospitals, hotels, conference rooms -- they all have a similar challenge, which is their unfamiliar environment. You walk into it and you don't necessarily know how to do simple things like turn on the lights or start my videoconference or adjust the temperature. With a voice-enabled solution, it's very natural and intuitive. You just have to say what you want to do.  Hey, JBL, turn on the lights. TARKIAINEN: We've embedded this technology into sound bars, clock radios that the user interacts with, send those commands to the IBM Watson cloud which then processes it and tells us what command to execute.  Hey, JBL, open the blinds. TARKIAINEN: Behind the scenes we're using our AMX switching to provide the control and switch things on and off. This is real, this is here now. We have patients in Thomas Jefferson hospital in Philadelphia who are using this right now to control their environment. I think it's so important because it gives them that sense of empowerment that they can do simple things like adjust the temperature or change the TV without having to ask for assistance. The future is now for this and being able to actually integrate this into our systems is something that we've been waiting for a long time. [ MUSIC ] ANDERSON: Now let's look at something a little different. Please welcome Carsten Bruhn from Ricoh. Carsten is group vice president and general manager at Ricoh. As Carsten comes up here, let me point out the Ricoh interactive whiteboard on stage. You have probably seen these interactive whiteboards as you came into the [post polast] or if you've been at our IoT headquarters building. These interactive whiteboards are part of our intelligent workplace solution a collaboration between Ricoh and IBM that combines Ricoh technology with IBM Watson IoT. Now, in addition to all the great things you can do with interactive whiteboards, the intelligent workplace solution lets you do more. With Watson inside, you can automatically transcribe conversations and meeting interactions. You can translate meeting conversations into different languages, then display the translations as captions on the whiteboard; and, you can use voice commands to manage meetings, assign action items and more. And last but not least, let me introduce Don Guelich from Panasonic. Don is the director of Panasonic's North America innovation center. Our collaboration with Panasonic is deep and wide. Recently we combined Panasonic's digital mirror and link ray technologies with Watson IoT. You can see the Panasonic digital mirror with Watson here in Munich as well. As this video shows, this offering has a genius all its own. [ MUSIC ]  Panasonic. ANDERSON: Very good. So, we're going to get your reaction to the trends. I said I listened to 2,000 people at once; now, we're going to see a year later how things are kind of playing out. So, Carsten, I mentioned things as agents earlier, and you're from more of a traditional company and these are new products. And I'm really kind of trying to understand how that trend is starting to impact the office equipment industry. BRUHN: Thank you. Thank you very much, Bruce, and first of all, thank you for allowing us to be part of this fantastic opening of your new building here. So, as you rightly said, Ricoh's DNA is a traditional product company and it's an 80 year old company and that's our DNA. Today, we are serving about 1.2 million customers around the world and we're really moving into what we call product plus services. And what is fascinating, you know, listening this morning to all the speakers, what we all have to realize and recognize is that the end users, they want to be part of this IoT and they want to be part of this whole way of artificial intelligence. So, we are really talking to our clients about what we call the work style innovation. And what happened was we started really with this kind of interactive whiteboard, and I think it's quite interesting that we call the interactive whiteboard. We are very lucky that the first letter was I, because to begin with, it was really an interactive whiteboard to help our clients to create an environment where they could work much smarter, they could be, you know, have what we call an open workspace and they could collaborate. But suddenly now, working together with IBM and putting Watson on the interactive white board, it becomes an intelligent whiteboard. And what is happening in that whole transition is we're actually bringing this IoT much closer to the end user so instead of it's just embedded into some kind of technology where we are capturing data, Ricoh is actually working together with IBM, bringing this IoT much closer to the end user so we can really start reengineer some processes and speed up the whole collaborate thinking. So, yes, it's transforming the whole industry. It's helping Ricoh to move into a product plus services company. So, yes, it's a fascinating journey. I think this is the beginning. And one quick comment I want to make is, you know, we already announced the interactive whiteboard become agent and what we mean by agent is we're working with some companies around the world where they simply become the concierge. You can walk up in a facility and order a taxi. You speak to Watson through the interactive whiteboard, a taxi will arrive. Or, you need lunch. So, we just bring it in much closer to the end user to, yes, at Ricoh, we are very fascinated. ANDERSON: So, Kevin, Harman's got a fabulous brand name. You know, very high quality. So, how disruptive as you guys are putting these products into the market, how disruptive is this for the market and your company? HAGUE: Well, I think everybody in this room knows how disruptive this cognitive computing trend is, I mean, in all of the businesses. In ours especially, it's very disruptive. So, we own a lot of brand like JBL and Harman Kardon and people recognize those brands; AKG is an example. But what they don't know is that we're, you know, a tier one provider for many OEMs. Actually a few people who were up here speaking, we work with closely of course. And we see that cognitive computing is actually going to change how people use these devices. Carsten brought up IoT. Very good example. For a long time, you're sitting here fumbling, you know, gosh, is that a Phillips hue that I'm adjusting or is it my Nest thermostat that I'm adjusting while I'm sitting on the couch? You know? We've become pretty lazy. But I want to be able to control those with voice. That's how happening. And now I wanted to bring that into smart buildings, and then I want to add a layer of intelligence. So, the disruption is really going to be once we add that layer of intelligence. So, I think that the big disruption is when we can tie our contextual background, our knowledge of what we want, what TV shows you want to watch, what's your favorite thermostat setting. How dim do you like the lighting? That's really going to change, you know, how we use these devices. So, that's what Harman has been working on. ANDERSON: Very disruptive. HAGUE: Yes. ANDERSON: So, Don, as I think about Panasonic, you know, our companies are about the same age, hundred and something, just young babies. And you're supposed to bring innovation into that environment through the center. And so, how do you disrupt and start to talk to your Panasonic colleagues about things as agents? GUELICH: How to talk about things as agents? So, within Panasonic, we, as you mentioned, we're a hundred year old...we will be a hundred years old next year. ANDERSON: Next year. GRULIK: And with that 100 years of consumer engagement and understanding of the consumer's needs, we're...we like to say that we're masters of what's known in Japanese as the gemba or translated into English roughly the place where value is created. So, as the Internet of Things becomes more prevalent, that place of value becomes essentially that area where the endpoint technology exists. So, being able to understand how to convert between that analog world and that digital world, that's the one area that we have a lot of experience with. But being able to then trans...what you do after that experience, you know, with the focus on the end user experience, we need to collaborate with the other companies that have more experience in the digital world such as IBM. So, the way that we're working within Panasonic is to help understand how to work within that ecosystem. ANDERSON: And very important, as I kind of said in the trends, you've been getting ahead. You know, you're almost reinvent to go some degree how things are done at Panasonic. So, Darko, as we look at, you know, I couldn't resist, IoT in your area, right? This is pretty disruptive, right? People are used to ear pieces that do a little bit for them and hands free and whatever. But you're really putting, you know, I think the wearable, a computer in the ear of a consumer or a factory worker. That's pretty disruptive. What are you guys seeing in terms of how this is being adopted? DRAGICEVIC: Well, I'm amazed myself because we have a founder who envisioned this and in fact, the vision goes really far and touches everything mentioned here. So, it's to have a discrete personal assistant which entertains you, takes care of you, and helps you do better. So, it's really without a specific target group in generic. This is disruptive, but if we take an analogy, we already have a smartphone which is a mobile personal computer, so to some extent, we changed the shape, the phone factor. So, it's in the ear directly and not only there for the moment of use, let's say. We add sensors so the wearable comes in. There is the analogy to what we have today but what I believe is then additionally disruptive are things for the future. For example, the contextual part. If something is with you and on you all the time, it could detect if you are running without having you to enter that you are running. It could react on, okay, the person is running, what does it mean for my programs instead of having an interface and/or even voice and doing this all myself. And another element as we call it kinetic user interface which means basically to turn the body into a remote control. So, already today, if you buy the product and it's connected to your phone, you get a call, you nod with your head and you can talk so no touching. If you want to talk to Siri and ask something, you tap your cheek and, let's say. there are a lot of new parts to be entered and which likely will be very disruptive which cannot be foreseen today. ANDERSON: Very good. Thank you, Darko. So, let's move to the second trend and cooperating through complexity and the phenomena that we can't do it all ourselves. You know, we've got a partner. We've got to get really good at that. And Carsten, maybe you can start. You know, as you look at the collaboration approach that Ricoh has had in the past, the partnerships that they've formed, how is this different? How does IoT and cognitive capability in your product really change, you know, the challenges that you're going to have to face? BRUHN: First of all, there's two aspects to look at this. I think the whole cognitive technologies has been here for years. You know, Ricoh have is for years collected a lot of data from our IT devices that in the office environment, we were just not good enough at leveraging that whole data. We've become much better at it now. So, I think when you talk about it being disruptive, I think it is disruptive but I think it's much more a matter of listening this morning about all these very, very interesting ideas. It's about how do we train the end user. How do they get used to work in this environment because it is different. But even today when we are selling technology, we recognize that most users, they only use about 40 percent of what this technology can do. And I think the key for us is how do we make sure that everybody can benefit for this fascinating journey. So, when that's been said, if you look at Ricoh as a Japanese company, manufacturing, you know, if I would sell a competitive product about ten years ago, I think I would have been fired. Today, you know, we have to accept that the success of our future is to collaborate and it's to operate within this ecosystem where we all are dependent on each other. And I think we truly recognize that in Ricoh that we need to open up our platforms. The day that I would love to see before I retire is that this interactive whiteboard sits in a total open platform and you can merely download what kind of applications you want to have sitting there, of course in a very secured environment. It has to be secured. But that's absolutely the future. And that has taken Ricoh a little while to get used to that you can't do it all alone anymore. But we recognize this is absolutely a critical for our future success and also what consumers and customers are demanding. ANDERSON: Carsten, I know you made a point, yes, yesterday in a roundtable where you talked about you really actually have to start co-creating with your customer because your designers or engineers may not really understand their entire reality. We talked a lot about using Design Thinking and techniques like that to drive that out. BRUHN: So, we gave you an idea, you know, we have one of my fellow Dames sitting here in the audience from a global company, ISS. And you know, we already talked to them about oh, you want this? You know, we didn't know that. And it's actually ISS saying to us they want the interactive whiteboard to be the concierge. So, IBM and Ricoh together now will have engineers working onsite with ISS and jointly collaborate, and that's the future of this, that it has to become a market pool where our traditional manufacturing DNA is this market push. So, absolutely, you're right, it has to be customer-driven. ANDERSON: So Don, and Don and I had the pleasure of making a customer call together. And when we tried to go to dinner, there were so many players from the ecosystem, we didn't fit in one room. GUELICH: Three tables. ANDERSON: Yes, I think we had three rooms that day. And so, when you look at that, Don, and you think about Panasonic and other, you know, traditionally Japanese company, you've been in so many different industries, right? And IoT and cognitive, so many different possibilities. How is that starting to change the way Panasonic thinks about its products and development and ecosystem? GUELICH: Well, actually, to address how we prioritize to that, I belong to the innovation center which was created in North America which we created last year which is part of Panasonic's sort of commitment to changing from a product box company into more of a IoT-centered services and solutions company as a whole and we're actually renaming one of our internal large companies, the four internal companies as of April 1st, we will become the connected solutions company. So, because of that focus, what the innovation center does, we specifically work with what we call our global business partners -- so, it's essentially the global companies that are headquartered within the United States -- we work with that sort of narrow set of customers to collaboratively work with them and the ecosystem to determine what are the areas that they can improve in their businesses. And then we've actually gone together, as you mentioned, to do Design Thinking workshops, cognitive value assessments our own engineering, what we call value engineering offerings to help that customer or that client identify what areas can they improve through the use of IoT and cognitive computing. ANDERSON: So, just as a quick follow-up, I know working with one of the presidents of your divisions, Jim Doyle who is an alumnus, a few years ago, he was kind of worried, you know, how fast can you get this stuff out. And so, we did a little, call it a development project, together. And how long did it take cradle to...sort of soup to nuts to get the prototype kind of built and out there ready for the consumer electronics show? GUELICH: So for that one, the...I think we started the discussions for what we wanted to show at CES and we did the rapid prototyping of the development and had it up and running in about four to five weeks just in time to actually... ANDERSON: Four to five weeks to get a product out. GUELICH: From the discussion timing until we had it up, ready to go into our CES booth. ANDERSON: Sounds pretty disruptive. And Darko, as we look at a new company like yourself, you know, you guys probably had a product idea in mind and then you met IBM and we start pushing all this IoT and cognitive stuff on you. So, how has that kind of changed the way that you're approaching the ecosystem now? DRAGICEVIC: Well, to be frank, I said it this morning already, it was kind of love at first sight so there was no convincing needed because what is obvious that in that form factor, the computational power is limited so of course we have a strong contextual tool, so as mentioned, many sensors, it's with a person. And we can do some computing there but obviously, we need cognitive power and partner in the cloud. And yes, this idea of combining the contextual and the cognitive elements made sense from the beginning and works out quite fine. ANDERSON: No convincing needed, love at first sight. I like that. You know, and Kevin, moving on to the new order of business, as we think about that and you think about how cognitive systems can kind of impact the organization, you're a long-time developer like me. I don't know how old you are, but just a little younger than me. But as you look at the organization, your brand identity, are you guys starting to have conversations about how to do this effectively? HAGUE: Oh, definitely. I mean, this is a core area that I'm working on. I think a speaker earlier said data is the new oil, and it stuck with me, you know. You know, I've had it in other statements but that summarizes it, right? So, we collect data just like everybody else does but just this little sliver. So, organizationally, we have to figure out how we can either share and or get data from other partners to be able to attach to this new environment. From an organization standpoint, we're not a hundred years old or 70 years old so we have some baggage because of that, if that's the right term to use. But I live in the corporate CTO office and we work with our partners in the divisions to try to bring new technologies to market, and the divisions are focused on what they can sell now. So, I think the biggest organization challenge that anybody in this room will face when you're bringing something like this technology into a division would be like hey, how do we make money on this today. And I think you just simplify. You say, okay, well, what's the coolest thing that we could put out in the market today that would excite the base of users that we have? So, delivering that customer value is extremely important for us. That's when we put a lot of effort into doing things that will make our customers happy, and working with IBM so far has delivered that. ANDERSON: So, Carsten I'm going to kind of put you on the spot and we've worked together for many years. We've had conversation about data. Right? And so as Kevin said, you're going to have a lot of data coming in. And you know, a lot of the brands don't know quite what to do with all of that data. And you guys have had connected products, you know, essentially maybe not through an IoT but you've had things connecting back for many years. And so, as you look at the ability to drive additional business value from the data, what are you guys thinking about now. BRUHN: Oh, yes. That's a fascinating question that we could talk about that for a very long time. First of all, when we look at the way IBM has tried to work with Ricoh for many years is that all our connected devices, you know -- and there's millions of devices sitting out there -- we today are sitting on a ton of data that we finally recognize is the power of the future of this company. And by working together with our whole, you know, 1.2 million customers around the world is, how can we both benefit from this data? And I think the way to look at it in a very simple term is that, you know, today Ricoh, the way we are servicing our customers is much more in a proactive manner. Based on data and understanding on how they operate as a company, we help them to create what we call an intelligent workplace. We can see that there are places where they're not very active. They don't use a lot of that space. We help them to make sure they redesign these kind of offices and that's what we call the work style innovation. We are using that technology to see how active are the users in certain areas. And I just want to make one comment at the end about this, and that's mobility, because what we have learned a lot is that with the change of the generation coming into the workforce like the millenniums, you know, this thing about working anywhere, any time, any place, the key is to make the data available for those people. You and I were talking about in the car last night, about how do we make sure our technicians, when they arrive at a customer's site, they have all the data and full understanding of how this customer operates and how they are structured so they can really add value to the customer. So, you're right. We're sitting on this data, we're finally start to go use this data, and working together with IBM and Watson, that's really the moment now where we start to see this will bring a real competitive advantage order to Ricoh. ANDERSON: Very good. Anyone else with any comments on how you plan to look at the data that's starting to accumulate in your companies? HAGUE: Well, I think another comment that was made earlier, it's not that...we're moving away from textual data into models. So, how do you share those models? That's something that I'm doing a lot of research on now today. So, you boil something down into an AI model and then how can you reuse that? How can you put it into a car? How can you put it into a speaker or an in ear headphone or something like that? I think that's going to be a big technical shift as well. ANDERSON: How can you essentially use it to enhance the experience that the client is going through with as they use your product. HAGUE: Yes. As an example, if I had the right kind of data on everybody in this room, we could say most people in the room think it's hot in here, so maybe they could automatically bring some air in. It's especially hot up here, but I would imagine that if we had that contextual information, but how do you share that without giving away your life story or something. And I think that would make consumers a lot happier. ANDERSON: Very good. Well, thank you all for your participation, your insights and your partnership here around IoT. And I'll leave the audience with a final thought here from Dr. Richard Soley who participated in that 48-hour conversation. And two fears: the fear of the new and untried and the fear of being left behind. Let's make sure that we are the ones that are actually jumping out to the front. Thank you. [ APPLAUSE ] 