 I somehow was able to snag Matt Chessen from the US Department of State. He was our speaker this morning at MIMA. As some people may have already seen from the previous interview I just did, we had a talk about artificial intelligence, machine learning some AR stuff. It wasn't just a talk to talk about, which a lot of people are doing these days, you broke it down into in the reality and dark side of all this and what we need to know as consumers and marketers. For the audience that wasn't here, give them a taste of what you discussed today. Sure. So the real thesis is that artificial intelligence tools that are coming out are actually going to radically enhance computational propaganda. So you've got all of these tools ranging from chat bots, dynamic content creation, affective computing, psychometric profiling...and these tools are coming out over the next several years. They're beginning to be used and they're going to radically enhance the ability of marketing, which will be a positive use of it...but also people who are pushing propaganda and disinformation. So people need to be aware of this and the end consequences of this when you have all these machines online generating a lot of content, well they're going to be generating content and trying to persuade human beings of things, but the machines aren't going to know whether they're talking to a human being or another machine. So you're going to have machines talking to other machines, trying to persuade them and things and eventually, the online environment if we don't do anything about this could be completely polluted with all this machine-driven speech. Yeah, and I loved the example you used to sort of paint a picture of what's happening in reality of how while there's machines talking to machines and creating this influence on us, there's also machines working with people to create influence. You talked about what's going on in China with this social credit. Go into that a little bit with a teaser of what that was all about. Sure! China has come out with this idea of a social credit score and this is basically like a credit score that we have. Instead of measuring your financial reliability, it measures your obedience to the Chinese government and your loyalty to Chinese brands. You get a high score from this because you're buying Chinese products and you're posting things that are patriotic. You get better access to government services, better jobs, faster processing on your paperwork...whereas if you have a low score, then you actually have less access to jobs, you have slower internet speeds and you basically get punished. The sort of insidious part of this is your score is influenced by people you're connected to. So, if you have a bunch of people in your network who have low scores, your score gets dragged down. So there's an incentive for people who are very loyal to either ostracize the other folks, or try to pressure them socially to bring their scores up. It's scary, but it's reality. You mentioned Black Mirror, a show on Netflix that sorta had an episode about that and it was an enactment of what can happen in America but it's already happening in another country. So, let's shift gears a bit to you. I don't want anyone watching this to hear from Matt and think this is just someone who's super enthusiastic about where this is going. This is what you do! So, talk about the work that you're doing at the US Department of State. Sure! So I work in the office of the science and technology and advisor to the secretary of state. One of our goals is to try and educate the department about these emerging technology topics and where we need to create new portfolios and new knowledge and transition that information into the department. So, I focus on two things: I focus on building out and international engagement plan for artificial intelligence policy. This is everything from issues around bias to ethics in laws and legal liability, but also focusing on these issues of computational propaganda and cognitive security. Helping the folks in the government really understand these issues and chart the direction forward and a strategy for addressing these things. I assume today this wasn't your typical audience? Yeah, my typical audience is folks in the think tank community, policy community or actually a lot of folks in the department of defense who do information operations who are very interested in these topics. Fantastic. Which leads me to my last question. You came out here from DC, and basically we're already having our winter here...it's already getting cold here...but the big question is why? Why did you come out here? Why MIMA? What's in it for you? A couple reasons. A part of it is just outreach to the private sector and to other communities...that's a lot of what we do. We want people to understand that we are actually working on these issues. Educate people about what we're thinking about and what the government is thinking about. Also, it's to get feedback. If we're just talking inside of the beltway ivory tower folks, we're not really understanding what other people are thinking about these issues and what their concerns are. So, this is really a lot of outreach and what the government should be doing is consulting the stakeholder communities about what they're concerned about. Well Matt, thank you so much for taking the time. Great presentation...I totally geeked out as well. I barely tweeted, which is crazy because I'm usually tweeting all the time...but I was so into what you were talking about! So, to learn more about his talk, I think you blogged on the MIMA website as well before this, check out mima.org and make sure you follow Matt, he's doing some great work. Thanks again. 