 O'CONNOR: In the words of others this morning. Wow, what a group. So, Dion gave me an assignment; he said, Chris, I want you to make Digital Twin simple but detailed. So, here we go. Digital Twin, simple but detailed. Okay? First, we're missing a clicker. Let's go ahead and roll a little video here. Digital twin is the ability to take a virtual representation of the elements and the dynamics of how an Internet of Things device operates and works. It's more than a blueprint, it's more than a schematic. It's not just a picture. It's a lot more than a pair of glasses. It's a virtual representation of both the elements and the dynamics of how an Internet of Things device operates and lives throughout its lifecycle. It's an understanding of all of its dynamics, whether those are electrons that move or whether it's the device that's moving itself. It's about understanding the elements that compose it and the dynamics of how that device is put together. Done correctly, a digital twin will influence how design, build and operations of a device are constructed in a single lifecycle. The design phase is where engineering tooling comes together, bringing together physical elements, physical bill of materials, pulling together virtual elements; you heard about the software on the cars and all the different elements and the chips that are there. Being able to coordinate and collaborate those together into a single facility of operational oriented design that is designed to bring out the highest quality product. In the build phase, it's about yield. It's about understanding how the devices that make the product influence the product's tolerances and stresses and designs. And, it's about better manufacturing to drive the correct tolerances and correct outcomes that you want to see for the product that you're actually making. And then third, a digital twin facilitates the actual operation of the product as well. Products age, products go through different environments, they deal with things like weather; and, they have different tolerances and they shift, they drift. And so your digital twin needs to drift along with those products as they age, and that feedback when done correctly not only facilitates the operations of the product but helps facilitate better design and better manufacturing by the lessons that are learned and the recalibration that takes place along the way. So, quite simply, a digital twin is a virtual representation of the elements and the dynamics of an Internet of Things device. It affects both the design, the build and the operations of how products pull together. There's essential capabilities that must be present for you to be active in a digital twin. First, you have to apply analytics as every step. The amount of information that we're dealing with to apply digital twin to a small device or to a complex device such as an automobile or an aircraft is staggering. Analytics has to be both real time, it has to be operational, it has to be quality, it has to be predictive oriented in its nature. The data that comes from a digital twin needs to be open. You have to be able to access it from a variety of different sources. You have to be able to pull it together into a federated model, and you have to be able to bring it together so that you can get that interaction, that dynamics to play. It's not just a schematic you're making. It's not just a picture you're making. You're actually making a dynamic model that you're going to shift as you go through both the design, the build and the operations phase with the lifecycle of that product. And then last, you're going to apply industry context. You may actually use the same product differently in two different industries and have two different digital twins for that one product based on how the industry uses that product, whether it's a pump that's used in oil and gas or whether it's a pump that's used in municipal...or, wellness and water, the outcome is based on the industry context of how that device is going to be used. And so, a digital twin not only captures the engineering aspects but it also captures the industry concepts, the dynamics of how that product is used at the same time. Let's talk a little bit about how we do this at IBM. At IBM, we start with the Watson IoT platform. It is where we bring the data in, we connect to a variety of different data sources, direct devices themselves. We connect to engineering capabilities. We bring data in from through partners such as Aris from the physical side; we bring logical data in from our own portfolio; and around the IoT platform, we start to build context of the relationships of the information both over time and relationship to each other. Collapse and collect the information. Second, we apply cognitive insights. We operate on the data to understand its variances and tolerances and how it's used. We apply techniques in machine to machine, natural language processing, video, acoustical analytics and more to help understand the dynamics of the information that you're being presented. So, when you have the information and you have cognition taking a place on it, what you can then do -- which is the third step which is the most valuable step -- is you can dynamically recalibrate your environment. So, a digital twin, when operating correctly, not only represents a picture, it's not only something that you can see in glasses and explode, but it actually works to dynamically recalibrate your environment affecting the design, the build and the operations phase of everything you do around that particular device. Well, where can you go see one of these? It's really simple. The first place that you go see one is go visit our own Watson IoT center. We've instrumented several of the floors, we collect information and we apply our digital twin models across both how we can show you dynamic recalibration around comfort, we can show it around efficiency of how the workspace is laid out and the interactions of the different types of office capabilities that are there. And last, we can show you the economic impact or the environmental impact of how the representation takes place at the same time. So, come to our IoT center. You can see our digital twin model in action. You can get your own picture of how it works and we can talk to you about how you can apply it to your own business at the same time. With no further ado, I want to bring up a couple special guests. First, we're going to bring up Professor Peter Gutzmer from Schaeffler, and he's going to talk about some really interesting use cases of digital twin inside of their business. Professor, welcome. Thank you. [ APPLAUSE ] Thank you. GUTZMER: Yes, thank you very much. Good morning from my side. I would like to start with just a very brief question. Who from you knows who is Schaeffler? Oh, I'm amazed. I'm surprised. Schaeffler is traditional company, mechanical industries, mobility industries. And if you were listening to what you heard before, you know why we are here. This industry, the ecosystem that we are in is completely changing. IoT will change the world that we are in, and this means that we have to really move into this connection, into these open combinations, open sources that we have told about. I'm going start, and it's really a pleasure for me to start with a train and really, show you how we build up our ecosystem based on the mechanical components and one of these key components is a bearing, a roller bearing. How do we prepare this bearing for digital trends, but it's even more. It's being connected in the world of IoT in the future. And you heard about how important it is in the IoT world to create data. And if you look to power trains that we have, whether it's in cars, whether it's in windmills, whether it's in tooling machines, whether it's in trains, there's no better place to create data of the power train behavior than the bearing and the surrounding of the bearing. And this is what we prepared for, for showing how we set up our structure together with IBM, with IBM Watson, to build digital grids of the power trains that we are in and you exactly heard what we are doing. So, we are much more improving our design phase with this, getting much more data in about the complete system. But on the other hand, we are looking for new services. And we can use the digital twin not only for optimizing our R&D work, for optimizing our design work, for making our launches being much better in that sense. No, we are really looking for new digitized business models and they are based on these digital twins and this is what I can show you. See the [boogie]? This is the important part of the train where we can detect, and you heard about how important it is, for example, the track, straightness of the track, heat, temperature, everything on the track, so we can use the train itself, the bearing, the vibration, the forces, anything you can think about that you can measure close to a bearing where the forces are transmitted, where the torque is transmitted, to really sense how the machine is working, but also how the contact between the machine and the track is working. And all this data together, together with geographical, with thermal data, we can find out where there are issues with a drag, for example. And this is what we are preparing for on the one hand. On the other hand, we can then build up with the models, with the analytics models that we have and that we use in our development work to feed this data not with artificial load data but with real load data. So, we can improve the design process, but what we can do as well is really optimizing the functional world in real time. So, we can send data about misfunction of the track, but we can also send data about the usage of these trains. And there's a need not only in France, but it's all over the world -- China, especially -- to really run trains with speeds up with four kilometers per hour. So, the straightness of the track, the vibration, anything in the bearing is a connector, force connector between the track and the machine itself in the [vogay] that's key. And we need to collect this data. We need to use the IBM system. We need to use really the digital world in parallel to the real world machine to the real world train to combine this and really find solutions in realtime to stop high-speed running or to improve -- this is also a key element that you heard about -- predictive maintenance. The usage of these trains is of high importance. We can send all the data about experience that the machine had overloading, the bearing head, the grease of the content of the bearing. We can send this to the repair center in advance and we are connecting that. Why we are doing this together with IBM? It's very clear, because we need these cognitive availability, we need this cognitive performance to do that. And on the other hand, we need this open source connecting with maybe SNCF, with others, and using our data cloud that we built up in combination with the other ones, whether it's a a Bosch one, whether it's a similar one. But based on all that, based on the improvement is really simulating the real world with ongoing data collecting with the artificial or with the virtual world, improving this virtual world; and therefore, for us, data collection is one of the key elements for our future. This business model is changing a lot, but using digital twins to optimize the whole product lifecycle is the other key element that we are moving in. So, we are very convinced our business model will change drastically within the next five years and we are preparing to that, teaming up with IBM, teaming up with our clients and customers. Thank you very much. [ APPLAUSE ] O'CONNOR: Professor, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is going bring in another thing in motion: an Airbus. With no further ado, let me introduce Axel Mauritz, come on up, talk to us about Airbus and digital twin. [ APPLAUSE ] MAURITZ: Thank you very much, Chris. So, good morning, everybody. Thanks for the invitation and to allow me to stand here and point to some aspects which link and fit very nicely to what my previous speakers talked already. We had heard a lot about digital twin, and I would like to go more from that also to the strong need of the connectivity between all the aspects of information because your companies, like all the ones presented, face the challenges of dealing with safety critical software intense systems and here is really, really important that these aspects are covered from a very global perspective because otherwise we are running the risk that we are only optimizing locally and missing the key elements of improvement. So, what is the key first for the engineer to help them and to support them in their work? I would say this is situation awareness. The engineer, the architect, they need to be pretty much aware of what is their part of the job they have do, so which informations for them are relevant and reachable. What then is the thing that they are contributing. So, they do a change. I come to an example. I will just take one of the systems an aircraft, the deicing system. So, what I'm going to do on that and what is the impact then to my colleagues -- the other disciplines, the other systems -- to propagate this effect to understand also that when it's understood what they're doing all together, how I really launch the actions, not only in my place, also for the others. So, let's take a look at the deicing system example. It applies to any system we could think of. But so what we see is, okay, the deicing system generally maybe towards explanation, it's established on the leading edge of the wings to control the icing there. So, we want to avoid that there is building up a lot of ice on special environmental climatic conditions and to avoid that it impacts the flight performance at the end of the day. So, when you look at such a system, and you want to touch it so you need to see where you install it on the wing. Then of course it needs power in terms of energy. If it is system which is electronically heated or you need to provide air pressure when it's a system which physically crushes the ice, then of course, you need to understand that there is ice or not. So, you need to have a connection with the sensor system. You need to control the system when it is doing what. You need to understand this in relation to the flight control system so because the data are managed centrally and coordinated by many different systems. So, easily come to a thousand of different disciplines which I have a stake inside and you need to understand how these relate to each other. Otherwise, and this is the challenge, the operation, the work is quite slow because you face a lot of iterations. And not only that, the next problem is that you also need that engineering time to look at all the other phases of the lifecycle because in engineering, you want to get the product right and so you need to understand how it behaves in operation, but that's an easy...not an easy one but a logical one. But also in between, you need to see how it is best efficiently manufactured. How it needs to be set up to be operable. How to pass all the tests and validations. How to maintain the system. All that needs to be understood at the engineering time and so we are looking here for really for this connected information. So, we saw digital twins can help us very much to look into the crystal ball when we have the right model in place so we can see how the system we want to build is looking like. But that's not the only one; we want also to see how it performs, how it behaves under specific context. So, therefore, deicing, the classical one is the environmental conditions. So, here you see we need to make all the connections and we are not talking at the end of the day about we call it always digital twin but is many views of digital twin or we can they are called even different twins. All of them show us a part of what we need to know but how to make sure that we don't look by accident to different systems that is still the same, that is kept consistent. That's an important challenge which is by all the opportunities we heard about already, maybe overlooked that to apply this consistency, we need to have a strong backbone in understanding how all this information relate together, are linked and connected to each other because otherwise we have no chance to manage this in a global configuration. Because most of the technical means we are having, having more control, they're configuration more locally, partially tool wise or domain wise. And linking the information interrelations allow us to come to a global configuration, and this is tremendously needed to avoid to build not only...to build only one aircraft and not many ones which are not fitting together. So, okay. This is what is behind then the aspect of digital thread. So, this also something which helps us really to benefit from this contextual linkage navigation information. And at the end of the day, what this means in place and IBM has a lot of enablers for that. And we did this a lot of very successful studies on the Crystal project together with IBM colleagues, and so we are able now to navigate even on the multisystem, multidiscipline basis through the information. Together with then the digital twins we can understand the impact of changes in all facets and all aspects of the complete product. And by having this backbone in terms of the information and understanding the semantics and the connections, we can provide the consistency between these viewpoints. These are really the things which are putting forward the development of a high-quality product but to bring much, much more efficiency to follow better; and yes, the right first time approach. Thank you very much. [ APPLAUSE ] O'CONNOR: That's perfect. Thank you. Can I have the clicker? [ APPLAUSE ] a Thank you very much. Let's just kind of recap. Digital twin, it's virtual representation of the elements and the dynamics of an IoT device. We've heard from Schaeffler, we've heard from Airbus. You'll see other examples as you listen to other speakers today talk about what a digital twin means to them. You've heard an engineering view from Axel, you've heard a product view from Schaeffler. And a digital twin provides significant value in terms of being able to move the lifecycle of your products through its design, build and operate phases. With that, I want to thank you for your time on digital twin and we'll see you around the program. Thank you. [ APPLAUSE ] 