 Hi! My name is TriDereka. And I’m Jadalyn Today we are going to discuss the many aspects of the misinformation effect. Before we get into things you should know what the misinformation effect is. The misinformation effect is when someone witnesses an event and then gets some incorrect information about what happened during that incident. So we take that incorrect information into our memory, and the result is an altered memory of that occurrence. Hey did you know that today, people will mistakenly identify suspects during court trials because of the misinformation effect. “Eyewitness misidentification is the greatest contributing factor to wrongful convictions proven by DNA testing, playing a role in more than 70% of convictions overturned through DNA testing nationwide.” In photo arrays or lineups, a victim or witness could simply think someone committed a crime because they look familiar or has seen them before. In 1995, a man named Ronald Cotton was convicted of two counts of rape and two counts of burglary and spent 10 years in prison because of eyewitness misidentification. Wow! That’s really horrible that would happen to someone because of a memory error. Yea, not only has research looked at real life application but there has been controlled studies done like the one by Loftus and Palmer. They had participants view a series of slides that depicted a car accident. In the study, the participants were in two separate groups. Group A was asked how fast were the cars going when they hit each other and Group B was asked how fast the cars were going when they smashed into each other. They projected the speed of the car to be faster if asked “How fast were the cars going when they smashed into each other?” They constructed a memory just based on how the question was asked. It’s really all about how the memory was perceived. How do we make and perceive memories? Well when we talk about memories of events, we are talking about episodic memory. We create episodic memories be encoding sensory information from the world into our brains. These then become memory traces, this is where we encode the memories we receive and convert them into a construct that can later be stored in the brain. Which leads into the storage of memories in the brain, and then into the retrieval of memories, which is the ability to access the information or memories when needed. But we never remember things exactly as they were. Memory is constructive, each time you remember a memory you are actually rebuilding it using memory traces and your own guess work. Hmmm..that’s really interesting. Well, age can also be a factor as well when looking at how susceptible people are to the misinformation error. In a study by Elizabeth Kirk called “Handmade Memories: The Robustness of the Gestural Misinformation Effect in Children's Eyewitness Interviews”, she explained how the children were susceptible to the gestural misinformation effect even when questioned about an event immediately after witnessing the event, regardless of their age and verbal ability. There are also some studies have found that older adults performed more poorly on general memory tasks than younger adults, suggesting that deficiencies in general memory ability may contribute to age differences in the misinformation effect. . So, why do our memories fade with time? Here are three! The first is decay, and this is when the memories we have fade. The second is interference and this is when learning new things can disrupt the old memories we have stored. And finally, retrieval failure, this is when the information is stored in our long-term memory storage but cannot be accessed. I think we should all take into consideration how we remember information in our everyday life and realize that some of that information might not always be remembered correctly. And for more information about how the misinformation effect is presented in real life cases, you can check out https://www.innocenceproject.org. Bye! 