 My name is Haluk Demirkan I'm a faculty member at Milgard school of Business actually you will uh great that Matt presented before me because I have some of the most similar slides. so you will learn better I guess? so um my quick background, I have been at University of Washington Tacoma for four years uh I was at Arizona state University before here, 11 years and um before that I was in Industry actually similar to Matt's background. Worked mostly in the data decision support system some of you probably remember that. Basically, the old version of Big Data So uh my area of expertise is basically on the analytics, cognitive computing, and digital talents. And I wanted to start with this slide. Basically how can an organization use smart missions to co-create business value. Very similar to what Matt mentioned a couple minutes ago. And then throughout my presentation you will hear what those numbers mean. So I wanted to basically so I have a quick question What do you think these companies or products have in common? Very quick maybe before I'm killing too much time. The left top corner is a robot basically working in a shoe store at the back room, Amazon Go, John dear is doing something Right top corner, oops. It went to fast but no big deal. They are all actually providing sometime of service and they all have technologies. service providers, technologies. So what I mean with this is they all have some smart computing functionalities. What's cognitive computing? So on the left side of my slide basically talks about artificial intelligence smart machines, right side is also about intelligence augmentation. How people can think and work with computers right from that why are we hearing so much about these smart computers these days because of these that data is growing exponentially. Computers are getting much smarter, brain power we already have them at home or in our mobile phones. and things are getting busier and busier for people. So why should we care? Because um they can do a lot of things much better than the human. They can sense, comprehend, learn, act and interact. So these smart machines. But and then um oops. Okay and we already have them if you have an iPhone You have a Siri if you have an android you have the google Now we have Alexa at home. So we are already using these smart computers at home right. As an example these intelligent personalities systems. Or they can be utilized you know to make humans much more capable of doing things or they are using prostatic arm. and hand and sense of touch. Basically they can learn and understand and do things much faster. So what's happening so these computing systems are transforming the world? And uh basically robots handle the simple jobs across hundreds of industries. Right? um looks like Alright so this is about a similar side that Matt had, for the industrial revolution. Things are changing cyber physical systems are in our lives these days, right and then in this uh Okay but the challenge is this if these computers are growing exponentially what will be the impact. The impact is basically in the United States only some predictions say "38 percent of American jobs are at risk" And then by 2020 there will be about 1.2 million jobs will disappear because of these smart machines and if you look at this graph you will see in five years. how much jobs will be taken by computers. There is some risk about that. And then on the other side there is also the issue about our learning curve so when digital technology changing rapidly organizations and skills are not keeping the pace so we are kind of falling behind the technology so my basic area is basically we all know that these computers are getting smarter. They can do things much better then us for certain things, but how can we basically uh you know basically look at, how can we co-create value with these computers. Rather than just replacing the world. That's one part of my research agenda. So basically how can organizations can address some of these strategic challenge with these. And then so they can work on the augmentation rather than the automation of the human tasks and that’s one part of my research agenda. Another part I’m also looking for how about the skill set, so how can we reskill the people so that also because if the technology keeps moving so fast. We also need to change some of the education system for the people. For that angle I’m working on a reasearch topic. How can humans and smart machines collaborate so we can have better outcomes? And then for that perspective I’m working on an educational model Called like uh digital talent T Ship skill set um so that might be about analytical thinkers and adaptive innovators. Who will embrace the continuously learning who can adapt and learn the technology much faster then used to. So basically um who can collaborate better with these smart computers. So this is my last slide uh so basically the left one. Runs around on fat and saves money, the right one runs on money and makes you fat. And that’s it, thank you very much 