 Hello, I'm Allen Coin. In this presentation, I'll  be talking about recent research into the ethical   aspects of brain-computer interface technology for  our paper, "The Ethical Aspects of BCI Technology:   What is the State-of-the-Art?" Our research  follows from previous research conducted by   Burwell and colleagues, which was the first  comprehensive BCI ethics scoping review conducted.   The research was conducted in 2016 and it analyzed  42 academic articles relevant to BCI ethics.   In 2020 we found that nearly as many  articles had been published in the time   since this comprehensive scoping review  was done as were published beforehand.   While Burwell and colleagues only considered  articles about BCI ethics specifying human   subjects, we expanded our search to include  applications involving animals and other   subjects such as brain organoids. We identified 34  relevant articles, and in order to identify trends   and areas of concern or debate among researchers  and ethicists, we analyzed a representative sample   of seven articles, or roughly 20%. Based on  the abductive inference approach to qualitative   research, we used the thematic framework developed  by Burwell and colleagues to identify and map the   overarching themes and the ethical issues posed  by BCIs. The map identifies eight specific ethical   concerns that define the conceptual space of  the ethics of BCI as a field of research. In the   updated sample, we were able to locate mentions  of all eight categories, with some ethical issues,   such as Autonomy, being mentioned much more  frequently than others. Notably, Autonomy is   represented in a greater proportion of articles  in our sample than was previously identified   by Burwell, et al. Research Ethics and Informed  Consent was also frequently mentioned; the main   consensus among the ethicists that discussed this  was that it is very important to obtain informed   consent and make sure that the subjects are aware  of all possible implications of the BCI technology   before consenting to use. Responsibility was also  mentioned multiple times but only one article   went into significant detail about who would be  responsible for potentially dangerous or illegal   BCI technology use. While there have been notable  advancements in BCI and brain-to-brain technology,   and the body of literature of the ethical aspects  of BCI technology has grown substantially since   2016, our findings suggest the original taxonomy  developed by Burwell and colleagues remains a   useful framework for understanding the body of  literature, specifically on the social factors   of the ethics of BCI. We recommend expanding  the discussion of the physical and psychological   effects of BCI technology. The publicly available  information on commercial BCI endeavors such as   Neuralink frequently mentions experiments with  increasingly complex and even sentient animals,   such as Neuralink's demonstration  of their technology using live pigs.   The lack of ethical scrutiny of  these studies is a cause for concern.   Secondly, while the risks of physical  harm from BCI are fairly well understood   and covered in the literature, further research  is needed to understand emerging psychological   factors in BCI ethics, examining how human-AI  intelligence symbiosis, brain-to-brain networking,   and other novel applications of this technology  may affect psychological well-being in humans. 