 My warmest welcome to the TUM extended reality lab. Today's our opening night. This is actually just the start of something bigger. The TUM School of Management has at it's motto; where management needs technology, so how can you use extended realities whether it's augmented reality or mixed reality or virtual reality to help us become better managers, better leaders? TUM XR Lab basically is a place of experimentation. It's actually like a little playground, where we learn ourselves about learning. What you can see here are all exhitbits from our partners, for example we have 360 degree videos from our partner the Center for Digital Leadership Development. The app allows to simulate prototypical leadership situations, so that allows our Executive MBA students for example to dive into real-world leadership situations. We brought two innovative technologies combined together, one is VR and the second one is brain computer interface, so we're measuring brains to give the people real-time feedback about what they are doing. Our application is for people who are frightened of having presentations We can jump into the audience and try to confuse the presenter. Our application is about the measurement and quantification of charismatic voices. We make acoustic persuasiveness and negotiation success visible. Let's say you book a training with the TUM Executive Center. This is where EMMA starts her magic: she helps you with the workout regimen to actually transfer what you've learned in the training to your daily work. Virtual learning will be fun, it will be for everybody a kind of a mobile and personalized coaching. In my opinion we will learn in the future with new technologies, we will learn with virtual reality, we will learn with of augmented reality technologies and so that we have something like a digital layer in the real world. The investment in learning how to learn will have a bigger place in the future than it has right now where people mainly focus on just getting the knowledge in somehow, instead of maybe dealing with "how can I do this most efficiantly"? 