 There are lots of different interfaces for accessibility that allow people with disabilities to use a computer or another device such as a smartphone or tablet, even if they can't use the standard keyboard or mouse. To strengthen the understanding of how well users do with different access interfaces, we built this AT-node for access website. So I'm just going to give you a quick demo of the main search path on this. This is a website that includes data on text entry rates, basically typing speed data from studies published since 1986. And all the data in here are from research studies that involve computer users with disabilities. What I'm going to show you here is a quick way to do a user profile search. We would click here on this and it's basically a combination of what diagnosis are you interested in and what interface are you interested in. So I'll just pick, for example, cervical spinal cord injury and we'll pick physical keyboard. And in just a couple clicks we've retrieved all the data in the database that has both individuals who have had a cervical spinal cord injury and who are using a physical keyboard in some way as part of their involvement in the study. It gives you a little description -- there's 29 cases in the dataset. We see a histogram here, the distribution, so in other words how many people typed at a text entry rate between down here two and four words a minute. One person, and actually if we hover over the cell this represents the data for that one person, and it shows us the study it was from, in this case Koester 2004. And the text entry rate for that person 3.7 wpm. So each of these actually represents a case in the data set. We have kind of a sweet spot here, the median looks to be about ten to twelve words per minute, and we have a few people here with cervical spinal cord injury typing above 30 words per minute. So we might say: oh I wonder what they're all from, Koester 2007, can I look at that study? Yes you can. You can click on that box, and it will open up an abstract -- the abstract for the study, give you a little pointer to the citation, and give you a little better understanding of what the study is all about. And if you want you can look at the data that go into those graphs, so this shows you all 29 cases that were reported by their age, their gender, diagnosis, and the body site. And also whether they use a strategy such as word prediction to type. You can download these data as well to get them into a spreadsheet for yourself. I'll show you briefly the advanced search... Let's say we want to look at speech recognition and physical keyboard, so this just gives you a fine-grain way of choosing a combination of any of the diagnoses, interfaces, and body sites. We can pick All. So here to the search we just did we're just adding a speech recognition option, and we get 39 cases this time. We still have a histogram. We don't know which of these cases was physical keyboard or which was speech recognition, but it kind of gives you the profile here of how well people did.  If you do want to know the difference between speech recognition and physical keyboard, this is your graph here: the text entry rate by interface. On average we're getting about 15 words per minute with speech recognition, and on average with physical keyboard about twelve point two. So that does have an advantage although 15 words per minute in the literature at least is maybe not quite as fast as you would think people go with speech recognition. So that's the basic idea of AT-node. It's kind of a neat entree into the literature and can inform decision-making and give you some rough expectations of what to expect with given diagnosis and a given interface. Try it yourself at kpronline.com/atnode. 