 Over half a million people  worldwide use these devices called cochlear implants to hear. They enable people with severe-to-profound hearing loss to regain a sense of hearing or for the congenitally deaf,  to hear for the first time. As a neuroscientist, I'm interested in how the brains of cochlear implant users are able to undergo compensatory plasticity to first experience this period of sensory deprivation, and then later to undergo hearing restoration  through devices like this. ... is a great neuroimaging tool that enables us to measure changes in blood flow and oxygenation to tell where neurons are more or less active. By wearing a cap that has... ...we're able to measure  activity across... Unlike other neuroimaging techniques such as EEG and fMRI this infrared light-based  technology is both safe to use with implants and it isn't affected by either the electrical or magnetic components of CIs. I'm particularly interested in how the brain integrates information across multiple senses to understand speech. We know that even with typical acoustic hearing, listening in noise can be made much easier by being able to see a speaker across the table. As an example try listening for a woman saying a number in this really loud background noise. &lt;unintelligible Now let's listen to the same recording but add in a visual aid. "nine" For cochlear implant users, auditory perception is always going to be noisy even if they're in a quiet room. This means that they may be experiencing  this idea of audiovisual benefit no matter what the listening conditions are. In a series of experiments, we're adding progressively louder background noise and testing how many words people can correctly identify when they're just listening, when they're just lip reading, or when they're doing both at the same time. For my PhD thesis I'm using fNIRS to investigate whether  cochlear implant users develop greater cortical processing for audiovisual speech perception in comparison to normal-hearing control subjects  of the exact same age. My hope is that this research will lay the  foundation to better incorporate visual training in hearing restoration as well as functional neuroimaging in clinical assessments. 