 Memory altering services, brain implants for sensory perception, digital avatars and digital copies of ourselves. Technology is advancing so fast that someday these might not only be fantasies. So let’s take a look at where we are now, and what the future holds for our brains. Number 1, Brain implants Imagine a retinal chip, giving you perfect eyesight or the ability to see in the dark, a cochlear implant granting you perfect hearing, or a memory chip giving you almost limitless memory. Or what if you could type into a computer with only your thoughts and control your entire smart house by sending out brainwaves? Although that’s really galactic leaps away, the first neuroprosthetics are already on the market: Even today, you can purchase cochlear and retinal implants. There are also implants for people with Parkinson’s that send electric pulses deep into the brain, activating some of the pathways involved in motor control. And as you’ve seen, there are also chips for paralyzed people that one day might help them move again. The use cases are almost unlimited, and technology is quickly catching up with our imagination. Number 2, Hive Mind Hive minds might sound familiar from sci-fis like Star Trek, where the Borg race collectively share their minds into a single consciousness. But recently, neuroscientists have successfully connected three people’s minds to allow them to share their thoughts. Thankfully, unlike the Borg, they didn’t start to conquer the universe, they just played Tetris. But what’s even more impressive is that they reached it with a non-invasive procedure, laying down the foundation for future brain-to-brain interfaces that could enable cooperative problem-solving through a “hive mind”. Number 3, Digital Copies and complete transcendence. The brain is  still our most mysterious and least understood organ. But since the 1800s, we’ve been envisioning on how, one day, we could leave behind our mortal bodies and achieve digital immortality. In theory, it would work like uploading our photo library to the cloud. But as you might have guessed, it’s not going to be that easy. We can already take highly detailed scans of our brains, but how do you capture the personality of a specific person? Even if we could scan personality traits and all those little things that make us us, how do you capture more than just a momentary state and get decades of context that all adds up to what a human is? And even if we could overcome all of this, there’s still the problem of what consciousness really is. If you copy the information in your brain and then recreate it digitally, the new creation may think that it’s you, but it’s probably just a copy. But of course, there are startups that aim to solve these problems. They claim to be able to preserve your brain in a way that all of your memories and feelings would be intact, and they hope that in the future they’ll be able to not just copy what’s in your mind but to recreate your consciousness in a digital form. As of now, like cryopreservation, it’s all based on hopes and dreams, but perhaps one day the dream of immortality will be achieved this way. While the question of interfering with neural data and transferring consciousness still belong to the realms of science fiction, brain implants are right around the corner. Today, they are where laser eye surgery was decades ago. The future of our brain is full of potential. 