 Revolving in a way that we've never seen before historically because of technology now you have what he calls a 'Fitbit' in your skull with tiny wires. "Alexa turn on my lights"... I'll just be able to think 'turn on my lights' and my lights will turn on. It's really scary to think what could happen if we are not enlightened enough by the time we get there. It is an honour and a pleasure to be here with you today, my name is Dr. Naza Nalani and as Xane mentioned today, I'll be telling you all about the brain and some ideas about what may happen to our brain as we move forward in the evolution of humanity and society. So I'm sure many of you have seen this image before, the image of our evolution from ape to the current human we are... but look just behind us. That version of the human is very different than the version we are today but who says we're done? Who says this is where we stop? It's very, very, very likely that we're not done evolving. We will continue to evolve and there will be more coming forward in this image but... some predict, you know, we're evolving in a way that we've never seen before historically because of technology. We may actually begin to artificially add to our brains. Now I didn't necessarily call this 'enhancing our brains' on purpose because that's up for debate... is it a good thing? Is it a bad thing? Is it going to improve our lives, or not... once we incorporate technology with our brains but regardless I want to tell you about it today because it's closer than you may think. 'BCI'... This is the future. Can you guess what BCI stands for? Let me give you a hint... Does that help? So BCI's are 'Brain Computer Interfaces'. Brain Computer Interfaces are the future. They are basically the connection that our brains will have to technology and once our brains are able to communicate with technology our ability to do almost anything will be endless! Endless possibilities. But what's so interesting is in an interview, What Yuval Noah Hirari said is he predicts we will become god-like cyborgs in the next 200 years. Meaning that we will be part machine part human, and this is actually happening today! It's happening right now, right this second. So recently you may have heard all across the news this information about Elon Musk's company called 'Neural Link'. So this is Elon Musk and this is his pig Gertrude. So Gertrude is very special because she has a Neural Link implanted in her brain and that's what you see in the black behind the image... these are actually her brain waves that are being scanned and measured and sent to a computer via guess what...? Bluetooth. So simple right? So if her brain can be scanned and measured and the message sent to a computer via bluetooth, then what does that mean? That opens so many possibilities. Imagine like two phones connected but instead of your phones connected you have this Neural Link implant in your brain, and now my brain can send a message to the bluetooth in your brain and connect with you and communicate with you and now it's a form of texting without the phone! Actually that's telepathy right...?! Technology may allow us to unlock all of these abilities that for centuries many, many humans have either wanted or have been practicing... So the Neural Link itself is very interesting. It's not the first brain implant actually, but it's the first that is being designed from the beginning with the purpose of making it available to the masses. And Elon Musk's company Neural Link is even creating this robot, this machine that he says in a very short amount of time, in the next few years even, we'll be able to perform a surgery in just a couple hours where you go in, the robot cuts your head open, sticks in this neural link, carefully of course, in your brain and now you're connected... and now you have what he calls a 'Fitbit' in your skull with tiny wires... I don't know how I feel about this... I'm so interested to know what you all think about this but, the point is it's the future and it's coming, whether we like it or not so the question is what are we going to do with this information. Now the other really interesting and cool thing about the Neural Link itself, is because it's a piece of technology, so it has a battery that needs to be charged, and the Neural Link company is creating a system where you can basically take a charger... if you have a watch or a Fitbit you might have a charger like this... it's basically this round disc and then you place the device on top to charge. So with the Neural Link, you would just place the disc on top of your head, connected to an outlet in the wall and that's how you would sleep... and it would charge your Neural Link! Crazy, right?! So humans may be the first species ever to be able to direct our own evolution. We might be able to choose what comes next in that evolution image I showed you at the beginning. What comes next? It's up to us. The good news is, if you're not ready, like me, for a neural implant don't worry... There are really cool things today called 'non-invasive BCI's' or Brain Computer Interfaces. A company in particular named 'Brainco", is doing this work right now and they have created something that iI think we're gonna start to see a lot more of in the next five to ten years, even. They created this headband and the headband goes around the your forehead, and what it does is it picks up the electrical activity of your brain and it's able to do this through your skull. And as you think and focus, your brain becomes active in different ways. And they've created this headband to be able to read this activity and transmit it and translate it to other objects. So we can control objects with our brains!!! I just, I can't believe it's 2020 and we're here and we're doing these really amazing cool things with the brain. So eventually one day, maybe, instead of having to say "Alexa, Turn on my lights", I'll just be able to think 'turn on my lights' and my lights will turn on or, I'll just be able to think 'turn on the oven' and cook me something and my oven will cook me something. So the possibilities like I said are endless, and this is actually even really, really amazing in terms of the applications for why a lot of these researchers, companies, scientists why they're doing it today and it's to help people who have experienced different types of accidents. These types of new tools and activities and neural connections may even give people the ability to move again or walk again and they're even starting to do human trials on these types of things today right now as we speak. So I want to leave you with this really important message... Our brains are becoming more connected to each other and to the world around us and that is inevitable. Like I said, it's here, it's now, it's happening. But what we need to do... and this is so, so,  so important... We must raise our collective consciousness before this happens. We need to connect our hearts before this happens because once we become these, you know, potentially cyborg type creatures or even if we evolve to have brain capacity that functions in a different way or, we even just learn how to use our current brain capacity in in a more powerful way... This comes with so much more responsibility. To have this much capacity ,capability, power can lead to really wonderful beautiful magical things in the world but, it can also lead to a lot of destruction... and it's really scary to think what could happen if we are not enlightened enough by the time we get there. So that is why I am so grateful for things like this conference, for you sitting here right now watching this. You by learning this information are expanding your consciousness. You're learning more about what's possible and you're able to use your consciousness and free will to make decisions that will create a better tomorrow and a better future. And for that, I am just so grateful to you. So thank you for having me! If you'd like to connect with me I'd so,  so, so love that. You can find me on Youtube.. I have a Youtube channel at Nasa Nalani, on Instagram at NazaNalani, or you can email me anytime if you have any questions about this talk about anything else. 