 When I was 16, I was in a car accident. All I remember is hearing the hit and then later on in the hospital. When I woke up is when I realized I was able to move nothing but my neck. He's really unable to do most of the things that we take for granted, maybe able to move some of his upper extremities at the shoulders and the elbow. But, in terms of hand function and being able to write or pick things up or feed himself, really not any ability to do that. After my accident, I was sad, angry, a lot of emotion. I heard about the project and I was interested in this study to try to help cure paralysis. The purpose of this trial is to find out if we could use a machine interface device to improve their daily activities of life, to interpret somebody's thoughts purely from the brain electrical activity. So then you use a machine or device or stimulate their own body to move leads to endless possibilities. Unlike other approaches which try to decode very complex movement from the brain, we're actually focusing on decoding a simple "wanting to move or not." Where my team comes in is we record these patients every day, try to understand what those brain signals mean to translate them into some kind of a useful command. We had him think about moving, think about resting. And then we wrote algorithms which were able to decipher and recognize key markers. We took a device that was originally designed for deep brain stimulation and we sort of adapted it to listen to what the brain is saying and reproduce hand functions. We've taken two very commonly done surgeries, we've combined them, and by doing so we've been able to implant this device. At the beginning, its tough to train your brain. It's very difficult. He, you know, really got through the surgery with no issues as you would expect from somebody's driven as him. He's done phenomenal. The first time that I saw him actually move something it was amazing. It was really exciting to see that months and years of work finally culminating into him being able to move something from one place to another. The results have been absolutely striking. He's able to use his hands now, he can write, he can feed himself to a certain extent. And our hopes are that in the not-too-distant future he can start to do these things outside of the lab. We will show that he can initiate step and be able to ambulate with this device. Me being able to grab stuff, do all the movement I'm able to do now. Its something I dreamed about. I feel blessed to be part of this. We're able to help somebody that suffered a spinal cord injury do that again. We've made a huge stride and to think about the benefit that one little thing might have over the course of their entire life. I mean, it makes it all worthwhile. Your brain is very powerful and all the doctors, all the researchers, were both focused. The goal is to walk again. 