 - [Announcer] Welcome to the Brain Coffee Podcast where doctors Eric Leuthardt and Albert Kim unlock life's little mysteries about health, wellness, entertainment, technology, and how the brain makes sense of it all. Sit back, relax, and open up your mind. - You went on a cruise, right? - Yeah, my first cruise. I'd never been on one before. I was a little afraid of it 'cause I tend to get seasick on smaller boats. And we were worried, but it was fine, it was a big boat, so. - (laughs) That's cool. - It was fine. There were a few problems still. - Like what? - I mean, I always have trouble sleeping in these, whether it's like a nice hotel or I guess in this cruise, like the bed's too soft for me. I'm like "Princess and the Pea". I need like a firm surface to sleep on. - Really? - Which is kinda crazy considering we could sleep on a dime in residence. - Right. Totally, I could fall asleep on a chair. - Yeah, so I just kind of had bad sleep and, you know. - Do you take anything for it? - No, not really. I don't, I know there are new things. I mean, we probably have prescribed some of these things, right? But no, I just kind of grin and bear it. - The interesting thing is you're right, that a lot of times we will prescribe various medications to help sleep. But I avoid them a lot and-- - I know, I think they should be a last ditch effort, right? - Right. - I mean there are other things you can do to improve your sleep before you head to medications, you know? - Right. Well the funny things is, I'm a different sensitive sleeper. In a sense of-- - Oh yeah? What happens? What are you sensitive to? - So for instance, if there is any sound, I can't go to sleep. So as an example, it was like two weeks ago and some neighbor a block away was having a party. And there was this, kind of, you know you could hear this thump, thump, thump. You know? (chuckles) And I was like do I call the police? Or do or do I...? (laughs) No one else can hear it in your house though, right? - Well the thing is, you know, my significant other, she's like, "Well, you are the loudest snorer in the world!" So, although I deny this emphatically, I always snore, and-- - You are immune to your own sound. - It's really interesting, you know? But, like this thump, thump, thump. Like this subtle sound. I was like "This has got to stop!" You know? - Yeah, I know. - And she has to suffer through my loud snoring every night. - I'm sure you didn't take Ambien when you heard the thumping. You probably just, I don't know, maybe put ear plugs in, or called the other house, or something, right? - I mean, what kind of things would you think about doing? - Well, I mean-- - To improve your sleep hygiene, or whatever they call it. - Well, that is a good... Actually, a couple of years back I had a lot, I was kind of chronically sleepy. And I actually saw a sleep specialist. And I mean I think one of the things, as far as sleep hygiene is there's several relatively straight forward things. I actually, I kind of stayed off it til this day-- He said, "Okay, stop all caffeine "and all alcohol for a month." - Oh, that would be hard for me. - Not that I was a heavy drinker or caffeine drinker, but giving up caffeine was tough. And certainly, I think staying off the caffeine is an important sleep hygiene. - So, something like, after 3 p.m. don't drink any coffee. Something like that? - Ideally, if you're truly trying to correct sleep or are having problems sleeping, get off it completely. And actually, the truth is, after I did that, my sleep got a lot, lot better. And I think you do get into this negative cycle where you're sleepy, you drink some coffee or you drink some tea or something like that. It kind of peps you up, and then you feel more sleepy. And you take it through the day to kind of keep you going. And then you get home and it's hard to get to sleep or to get high quality sleep. - And maybe just to get more specific about it. There are a few different parts of sleep, right? Some people have trouble getting to sleep, right? Some people have trouble staying asleep. And then some people think, maybe some people sleep just fine, but they feel like they are not getting enough sleep? - Well that's, you know, when you think about sleep, there's these numerous phases of sleep. Where you've got, you know, the big categories are, REM and non-REM. REM standing for Rapid Eye Movement. And during these different sleep stages, one, two, three, four. And you've got slow wave sleep and then REM sleep. And each of them is really important for your brain's homeostasis. - Right, whatever it is. Getting rid of toxins-- - Exactly right. - or consolidating memory, Or you know, things we've talked about. - Well, what's interesting is actually, all mammalian, virtually every living thing sleeps. But we actually don't really, really understand what sleep does. I mean, yeast sleep, I think. Fruit flies sleep. And everybody has a circadian rhythm. And it does something that is metabolically important for our brains or our physiology. We don't quite understand it. But some people don't, or can't go to sleep. like me and the guy partying a block down the road. Some people kind of wake up, kind of frequently. But sometimes people sleep and the quality of their sleep is poor. Again, we know we mentioned REM and slow wave. And basically you're not getting those critical stages of sleep that allow you your brain to do whatever it does to kind of make it healthier when you wake up. A classic example, I think, I don't know if you've ever had this situation where you're out for dinner, and maybe you get a couple glasses of wine. You know, nothing excessive, but afterwards your sleep is terrible. That's what happens to me. - Oh yeah. I mean, probably your slow wave sleep is disrupted in that case, as well. - Yeah, or your REM. And you basically, even though you are asleep, the quality of it is not restful. - Yeah, and so the medications we use, they affect the-- - Same thing, right? - They affect the stages, yeah. So the original thing we used to use, right? The sedatives are benzodiazepines, right? Like Ativan or things like that. Alprazolam or Xanax, I guess is a very common one people take for sleep. But the problem is you get addicted to that, right? - Right, and the quality of the sleep is poor. I mean, again these benzos, what they are doing, is they're basically attaching to your GABA receptors. Those are the receptors on your neurons that inhibit neural function. So they are globally suppressing brain function. - Yeah, that's right. It's the GABAA channel. When the medicine engages a certain salt flows through and then you're inhibited, right? - Right, exactly. The interesting thing is, sleep is not really an inhibition of brain function, right? It's actually quite an active process. - Yeah, it is. - Where it's just an alteration of your conscious state but it's a deliberate active process where your brain has to do something to kind of reset it for the day of consciousness. But global inhibition is not actually sleep. - That's true. I mean, the only thing that maybe you can argue is inhibited, is input from the outside, right? - That's right. - So there's this internal dialogue occurring when you're sleeping, but you can't really, hopefully you can't really, hopefully you can't hear the thumping from the next house, or-- - Or my own snoring. - Yeah, right, exactly, exactly. So there are newer drugs, though. The problem with the old set of drugs, for these receptors is that you would get addicted and then you would have other problems. - Right. Rebound anxiety. - So, yeah. You stop taking it and you have withdrawal and rebound or the worst thing. You know, it also inhibits other things, eventually like your drive to breathe, right? - (chuckling) Right, which is a problem. - Yeah, so if you overdose on benzodiazepines, you'll stop breathing, and that's why people will die, right? So-- - Wasn't that... Michael Jackson, they were putting him to sleep with Propofol and a benzodiazepine, and I think that was part of the reason that he-- - Yeah, he probably stopped breathing. - Exactly. - So they have newer drugs. Again probably that we prescribe... I'm sure that you've prescribed. I mean like Zolpidem, or Ambien, I guess more commonly called. And apparently, it's the same receptor, GABAA receptor, but it's a different site. - Interesting. - So you don't get all these other effects as much. They call it hypnotic effects, but they don't... You don't have the anxiolytic effects, the anti-anxiety effects, or some of these other things. But I don't know how well-- - I think, but Ambien also is... I don't think it's as addictive. But people become dependent on it. - Yes it's still addictive, that's right. - But people do get... It helps them get to sleep. But then problem is, they become dependent. If they are going to get to sleep, they have to take it. - That's right, yeah. So I only give patients just a couple of pills. But apparently you can only do that for a couple of months and after that, like you said. - It really becomes challenging. - I mean, there are also other weird things about Ambien that you hear, you know, on the news? - Yeah, I'm definitely exiting my level of expertise here. - Yeah, me too. But I just heard it on the news. - Where for instance, you hear about stories, I think there was one in Britain not too long ago where people are absolved of murders, (laughing) because they were basically taking Ambien, and they apparently woke up, or didn't wake up and they either strangled or killed a spouse, and they didn't remember it. - Right, right. - Hard to know. You know? - Yeah, well... So we are talking about super rare things, I don't know these people might have been screwed up in some other way to begin with. But there have been... Some of the side effects that are noted for this drug are things like sleepwalking. - Yeah, that's a-- - Sleep driving, I heard. - Sleep murdering. (laughs) - But doing things and you don't know they are going on because it's hypnotic, you know? - Right, right, right, that's a good point. - Yeah, so the question I guess, is... I mean are those people still responsible? I mean, is that even a, this is not even a medical question or more... - Yeah it's more philosophical. - Or legal. - If your body commits a murder, are you still responsible for what your body does if your brain is in some way not participating? - Yeah, right! - Or if a part of your brain is participating but not the full person that you are. I guess, do you imprison the body? - At the same time, there is an interesting parallel here to REM. You know, in REM you think and dream crazy things, right? - Right! - But your body is paralyzed, intentionally by your brain. I mean, maybe in some sense this is doing something like that. But then you're releasing that paralysis. I don't know. It's an interesting thing. - Have you ever had... Actually, here's another interesting thing. Have you ever had sleep paralysis? Do you know the phenomenon of sleep paralysis? - Well, I don't know, well, not pathologically. But I've definitely dreams where... - Well, there's a very, it's actually documented really through medieval times where... And there's very characteristic features of what is called sleep paralysis. Where basically you wake up, and you are having a nightmare. And you can't move. You feel paralyzed, and very commonly, and again this has been described in literature, both scientifically as well as going back, not millennia, but centuries where, and there's some type of quote-un-quote demonic or negative presence associated with that sleep paralysis. And there's really famous paintings from Renaissance times about, like, the demon sitting on somebody's chest, right? - I see, I see! Oh yeah. No, I have definitely experienced something like that. I mean have you? - I've had that happen where you think you're awake. You can't move and then there's something bad happening, and you can't do anything about it. - Yeah, I mean, I don't know when the last time might have been. Maybe in high school and some alien is chasing me. You're trying to run but it feels like your legs are molasses, right? But then you're kind of sensing you might be in a dream, right? - Yeah! And you can't-- - This transition period. I just remember very clearly I was in bed and I was awake, or I thought I was awake. And there was some kind of devil or something like that. But I couldn't move. And I was terrified. I will always remember that experience. But I think that gets at this issue of REM and how-- Where I think that your brain was a little out of kilter, or basically it was still paralyzing you. You know, it was still letting you dream, but you were more awake than you should have been. - Exactly, but it is really interesting. So the REM, and you probably know this better than I do. Your brain activity during REM, if you look at it on an EEG, looks more like when you are awake. - It looks identical to when you are awake, that's right. - I mean, it's just that some of the motor pathways are inhibited so you have this sleep paralysis thing. - But your brain looks like it's awake when it's dreaming. - Well, and that's why it's called Rapid Eye Movement, REM. It's that your eyes are moving as if you are interacting with some external world. - That's fascinating! - Yeah, so you are having, even though you are unconscious, it's very conscious-like, in terms of the physiology and what your body's doing with the exception of your body. - And because of this phenomenon, you have all these good sci-fi stories, you know. Which, what is the real world? (chuckles) - It gets into The Matrix type of stuff. - Is it a dream world or? - Exactly, you can totally see where that comes from. - You know there is a movement, oh, what is it called? Deliberate dreaming or some type, where people can train themselves to wake up in their dreams. - There's a movie coming out on this, lucid dreaming. - Lucid dreaming, that's it, right. One of the graduate students in my laboratory was practicing lucid dreaming, where you can become aware that you're in a dream, and then you can fly. You can be in your virtual world in your brain. - (chuckling) Oh that's interesting. - And you can say I want to lift this building or I want to turn into a dragon or a caterpillar or whatever, and you can do it. There's some really avid proponents of this idea of lucid dreaming. - Oh, well, I'm going to try that. - We're actually thinking of creating a brain computer. He wanted to create a brain-computer interface for lucid dreaming. So wear a headset and, then as it picks out that you are in REM, it gives you a ding or a bell, so that you can have some stimuli to know you are in a dream. - I see, so it's like the equivalent of pinching yourself. - Yeah, right, exactly. I actually learned how to do hypnosis when I was a resident. So I could actually hypnotize my ECOG patients. - Did it work? - It did. One of the patients got, so-so hypnotized and we looked at the brain rhythm changes and there were theta rhythm changes. So I think it's probably a form of induced meditation. - Oh, yeah. Okay, I could believe that. And you have to be open to it. It's not like someone's controlling your mind. - Yeah, right. That's exactly right. - You need to volunteer yourself for it. I do think that's probably true. Because some people are more susceptible than others. - I mean, if you don't want to be hypnotized, you're not getting hypnotized. If you don't want to meditate, you're not gonna get into a meditative state. Whereas, I think hypnotism, I guess maybe the way to get into hypnosis is it's coached meditation. - Yeah, I'll buy that. I mean, I don't know a ton about it, but I can buy that. That'd probably be a good thing. - Have you ever been to a hypnosis show? - (chuckles) I was just watching one on YouTube, actually. It's funny that you ask. - I remember there was a hypnosis show when I was in college and they had people doing crazy things. - Yeah, one wonders about that. Especially in front of an audience. Going to sleep instantaneously (fingers snapping) - Right? - You know, what every the hypnotist says, "Act like a chicken!" (everyone laughs) - Right, exactly! - Why is it a chicken? I don't know why. I like chickens but-- - They always have to make you act like a chicken. I actually think they did that in my hypnosis show. - Oh yeah? (laughs) I don't know why it's a meme. (everyone laughing) Have you been following this amazing story in Thailand about the-- - Absolutely! - The 12-year old soccer kids? - And they got stuck in a cave two miles in! - I know! It's amazing that they could get these kids... I really fear for lives. I mean, some of the divers were going-- - One diver died. - Yeah, one diver died. But they are going through caverns three miles under water just to reach these guys, right? - It's extraordinary. - It's amazing. And I heard they had the oxygen in the cave was hovering on 15%. - Really?! - So you know it's 21% for us and the difference between the atmosphere and our bodies causes the diffusion. That's how we get oxygen. I mean, you are at 15%. - You are really pushing it. And they didn't eat for nine days. - Oh, right, right! - So, the whole, kind of, physiology is really, for instance, when they first found them, they could only give them small amounts of food. Did you know about this? Because if you're starving for a long period of time and then you eat a lot, it'll create an enormous metabolic-- - Oh, you use more oxygen? - Well, no, no. So if you are starving, your body goes into a kind of starvation metabolism. And so that if you suddenly have a large caloric load at that point, I think you become extraordinarily ketotic, and it actually becomes life threatening. - Oh, interesting! - And so, anybody who's starving, so for instance, in World War II as an example, when they went to the concentration camps, they had to give all the people, who had been chronically starved for weeks, if not months, small amounts of bread because if they gave them a big loaf of bread they would die. - I see. Sounds kind of mean when you look (chuckles). - Well, yeah! - But I know what you mean. - But it's medically appropriate. So they actually only give these kids small amounts of food when they first found them. - Here. (chuckles) - Exactly! And they had to ramp them up to actually be able to eat normally for the next day or two. - Oh, interesting. So the physiology is, and they were oxygen deprived. - Oh yeah. So, in the recent "Incredibles" sequel, you know, the mom superhero is also losing oxygen in the plane at the end. So that was an acute drop in oxygen and she's just all loony. Here it's just kind of slowly going down. Hovering at, just this level where you might start having something like altitude sickness. Kind of like you're in a mountain or something like that. But in a cave it's different. Your CO2 can also rise in that cave, because of the kids and things like that. So high CO2 also is really dangerous. - Right, and then superimpose on that, the way to get them out was to have them dive through a couple miles of water. - Oh yeah, that was nuts! - I mean, that's a whole other level of physiologic perturbation. I mean, that's why they said there's only a few divers in the world who can manage that dive. - Right. I mean, if you think about it there might have been no solution to it. There might have been-- - Right! - Maybe the path that they took to get there, there was like, you know, the rocks fell in. There was no, it could have been that there was no solution and after three miles of swimming, one would wonder if you'll ever... I mean, it's amazing that they found them! - Well, it's interesting! I guess, Elon Musk, you know. - (chuckles) Oh yeah! He was trying to come to the rescue with making those mini submarines. - Yeah! It looked like an obelisk, or something. - Right, exactly! And again, fortunately they got the kids out before... But the fact they were able to pull those kids through that three miles... And that they, for instance, didn't get the bends. - Oh, right, right. Yeah, that's true. So, the bends, you mean... Okay so you dive deep, scuba divers for instance, the nitrogen in the oxygen, because there's a lot of nitrogen, like 40% or something in the air, that gets dissolved in the blood because of the high pressure and then if you come quickly up again... - Basically, the nitrogen, kind of like, the nitrogen in your blood-- - Bubbles up. - Yeah, it bubbles. Like if you're opening a coke can. Or basically, the pressure changes and that's why you get fizz, right? Fizz happens in your blood and that clogs off arteries. - Yeah, just like a fat ball would clog off your arteries. You can get strokes and things like that. - And it's extraordinarily painful. - Oh yeah! The bubbles form in your joints and that's why you have the feeling of pain and the bends. Yeah, no I guess that could have happened. I don't know how deep they were. But that's certainly possible depending how deep they had to go and... Because, you know, you see this thing on maps and the New York Times, you just see the 2D overview and you have no idea if they are going like. - Even a difference of 40 or 50 feet, that's-- - Oh, if you do it too fast? - If you do it too fast. - I see. That's interesting. So the submarine, they tabled it, huh? - (chuckles) Well, I think they got the kids out as the submarine arrived. But, you have to give Elon Musk credit for trying something new. - Yeah, I saw another thing of his at the Kennedy Space Center recently. I was just there for a day and SpaceX took over, at least bought or is at least renting one of the launch pads. I saw SpaceX-- - Oh cool! - Stuff on one of the launch pads at the Kennedy Space Center. But I've been hearing more about this other new thing. - Yeah his next company. Which is obviously a topic near and dear to my heart, which is Neuralink. Where, you know... So Neural... So his first company was Tesla to make electric cars, SpaceX to make rockets. Now, he wants to create a really robust brain-computer interface. And, the idea being that he wants to record from a lot, a lot of different neurons in your brain and have a seamless interaction between your brain and an artificial intelligence to magnify your cognitive capabilities. - And this is at least somewhat grounded in his belief that AI might be a danger. - Presumably, yeah. - Artificial intelligence might be dangerous. - He thinks that AI is an existential threat. And he's talked a lot about-- - Yeah, like Terminator style, yeah. - Once you have a truly, what we call, general intelligence AI, meaning they can freely think and solve problems, that it becomes a threat for humans more broadly. And one solution that he thinks about, in the context of Neuralink is that, rather than being separate from the AI, if we can make AI a part of us and massively enhance our intelligence, we then become the AIs that can either compete or participate, or supersede a kind of AI intelligence. - I see. - So, it's a long shot. - No, I like the idea of augmentations. You know, you and I are all into saving things that are already broken. I mean, augmentation would be a fantastic thing to look forward to. - Well I think... As we think about augmentation, I think there's some really interesting dimensions to this. You are right. Historically, we as physicians, we restore function that's lost. - Yeah, right. - Whether it be you've fractured your spine, we put that back together, you've broken a bone, you've lacerated an artery, you've got a brain injury. You know, you've got something. You've got a brain tumor. But I think there is historical precedence for, kind of, restoration transitioning to augmentation. I think the most classic example is plastic surgery. A lot of plastic surgery techniques, looked at historically, were for, you know, facial trauma, reconstructing a nose, reconstructing a face. A lot of plastic surgery is done after mastectomies for breast cancer. But those techniques then got transformed into something else. Quite literally, augmentative things. And I think that we'll see similar things with neurotech. One can envision those same type of transitions, right? If we can, again I work on brain-computer interfaces all the time, and hopefully the first brain-computer interface that we've been developing, will be the first FDA approved brain-computer interface this year. And it's to help patients of stroke. But that's really the first domino. Once you can start creating these things and people can use, and there's low risk, do people use them to perk up your capabilities? - Memory, for instance. - Memory or attention. And imagine, I always love to give this whenever I'm giving a talk. I gave a talk to a bunch of medical students and I said, "Okay, if you could have a small incision in your scalp, or something totally cosmetically tolerable-- It's less risky than a tattoo-- and I'm gonna enhance your memory or your attention, would you want it?" And all the hands go up! - (chuckles) Right. - And I think that, maybe, the bigger question is, should we do it? - Yeah, I'm not sure if entirely, that is his vision, this is not your specific. I know about the BCI, the brain-computer interface that you've made. It's brilliant, it's going to help people with stroke, the IPC hand, but I'm not sure if being plugged in necessarily fixes the danger of AI. It's just sort of-- - That's true! - I mean, it's just being plugged into them. It's still going to be a problem, possibly. - Possibly. I mean, can it make us smart enough? Can we handle the information enough to compete with an AI? - Or can they directly, then, completely, you know... Turn us into a Borg! - Exactly! - Yeah. - And then we become machines that they control, too. - And the other issue is, you know, I know it's a small incision, potentially, but the risk of permanent implants. There's a risk of infection and things like that. - I think those things can be handled. Although, maybe, I think a lot of people like to talk about the danger of AI, and also the risks of... For instance, if I could have access to your brain, are you hackable? Can we manipulate you? But I think, also to look on the positive side of this, from a social standpoint, is that more we can enhance our intelligence, generally speaking, whether it be with AI, whether it be with our own augmentation, I think there's a case to be made for an improved intelligence to solve big problems. - I agree with that. - So, if you look at the last 30 years. What is really-- If you look at our current neural augments, which are computers, right? That massive improvement in computation has solved a lot of problems, whether it be mapping out the human genome, whether it be a weather prediction, whether it be just everybody having computers and communication, that we've probably solved a lot more issues than we've created. - With the processing power. - With the processing power. - Yeah, I would agree. - If you can improve human intelligence to continue to be more creative and more innovative, have a better ability to solve problems... You know we've got big problems coming up. Like aging in a population. how do you feed a population when it hits 10 billion? And when you-- - And then dementia, for instance, from Alzheimer's. - Yeah, exactly. How do we solve these really global level problems? Well, we need to have a lot of intelligence to, kind of, create new solutions. So, just as I think there are the risks of privacy, manipulation, surgical and medical risks, are they offset by the potential for solving some really important problems that's threatening our species and our earth? - You think it'd be among the billionaires, there might be a nuclear arms-type race to augment themselves, or? - Yeah, I mean-- - Then you have an objective advantage to certain things now. And you have, let's say, version 2.0, I got the version 1.0-- - But isn't that already happening? I mean, you look at the competition in super computer creation. Like, so every year you hear about one nation having the biggest, baddest, fastest super computer, and how that gives them some advantage for something. But, I guess, could that look quaint 20 years from now? Where basically, who's got the most, intellectually high-powered population. - Right, does it look as palatable at the individual level? There's all these court cases about affirmative action and things like that. Particularly, about Asian-Americans recently. You know, at the individual level if you have an advantage because of a brain-computer interface, what does that mean? What does that look like? What are the optics on that thing, you know? - Yeah, there definitely are optics. Although again, how much different is it from today, when you think about somebody from a higher socio-economic status who's got access to-- - Prep-school or something. - Prep-school, a good computer, a really good mobile phone, who is always getting online tutoring, something like that, to somebody in an under-developed urban area, who doesn't have access to that. - I agree with that. But, I mean, I can just imagine maybe the laser eyes staring at you (everyone laughs) while you're interviewing him, you know? But I understand. No, I understand, there are more layers behind that, but it might be a similar principle. I agree with that. I understand. - In many ways, it's a more physical manifestation of the social stratification that we already see. - Right, it would be much more direct, for sure, right? - Right, right, right, yeah. - And, you know, they are already doing this testing. You know, like we were talking about before, of these brain-computer interfaces and animals. I have dogs, you used to have dogs, actually. I heard they are trying to make communicators for these animals-- (laughs) - In the first phase of Neuralink. - Well, it's interesting. It's basically so that they can, essentially, unlock the neural code of how information is being represented. And I guess once you do that on a little rodent level, can you enhance the ability to communicate with that rodent? (laughs) - Although, interestingly, there is a really interesting example out at Duke, where they had two mice doing brain-to-brain communication, where basically one, well, the mice had to accomplish a dual task, like one mouse was in Brazil, one mouse was in-- - They were coordinated. - And they had to coordinate. So they literally had to send... Their brain signals would send over stimulation to the other mouse and that mouse would send the stimulation back through their neural code, and so they would literally share-- - Thoughts? - Thoughts! They would share thoughts to accomplish this task. And so I guess, where we could have a brain-computer interface in the future, I guess, getting at your question is can we have a pet-computer interface where we can now, like, when the dog barks you can say-- - Oh, you need to go? "Oh yeah, I need to go outside now." (laughs) - I guess it would elevate it all. If we all had brain-computer interfaces. We could share thoughts, we could now share thoughts with not just humans anymore. - I wonder if you could gate your thoughts though. (laughs) - You know, you're thinking some things, you're saying other things. Not in an unethical way, just to be a normal, polite person. - Right! - I wonder if dogs would do the same thing? I wonder if they're-- - I don't think they would... Well, I guess, they would probably, much like my 4-year old son, who's happy to tell me, without filter, what he thinks about the world. Do you know what I mean? - I think you're right. I think that dogs might be more sincere. I think you're right about that. - They've got to be more sincere. (upbeat music) 