 Imagine when the blinds see The deafs hear Imagine going to Qatar and not knowing a word of arabic but you can download arabic into your brain so that you can read all the arabic boards and speak to the locals with fluency. And then imagine when you return to Indonesia from Qatar, you can recall every moment with perfect detail. Imagine if you can record and replay your memories. Or even downloading them And saving them as a backup. But this Tesla guy is confident that Nauralink is capable to do it all. According to him, In the future, The race between humankind and AI will exarcebate like never before. So the only solution to NOT get killed by AI is is by becoming.... AI? Before, he created electric cars then he launched rockets to the moon then he wants to colonize MARS And now he wants to create a human cyborg with Neuralink. Seems like, the future is now getting closer thanks to this man. But wait. What the hell is.. . Neuralink? All sources and video footages come from Official Neuralink video: Neuralink Summer Update 2020. Neuralink. Its shape resembles a coin with thin threads attached to it. Difference is, This Neuralink thing is put inside the brain And these threads are 10 times thinner than the human hair. These threads later on will get connected to neurons. As we all know, Everything that our body does, like seeing, listening, beating people, watching tikT0k, are all instructions that come from the brain. Take vision for example, The eyes and the brain are sending and receiving signals from one another. Thus enable us to see clearly. But for the blinds, These signals between the brain and the eyes are not wired correctly. Which interrupts the brain from signaling the eyes. So this is what Neuralink is trying to solve. Neuralink aims to rewire the brain. So that these unwired neurons can be rewired back to their supposed locations. Thus, Enabling the blinds to see again, The paralyzed to walk, And those suffered with insomnia, depression, Alzheimer, can as well be cured again. The main point is, Neuralink aims to cure any sort of neurological problems. Neuralink will be put inside the skull like this. How to put it inside your skull is not through your normal surgery. Elon Musk wants to make this process to be as efficient as possible. So the doctor to do this surgery is not our average normal doctors. The doctor is.. This guy. Say you want to get the chip, You come for the transplant. You got anasthesized. Then the robot cuts your skull according to the chip's size. Chip placed inside the brain. Skull put back to close. and voila. Done. You can return home within the same day. If you're bald, there'll be a little mark. If you have hair however, there will be no noticible marks and no one will ever know that you are now a cyborg inside. And then, if the battery run out, it can be charged with a charger that looks kinda like.. this.. How.. does it work, then?  