 okay let I'll start again okay okay I started it, so Oh, okay. Thank you, okay okay when you're done, could I please share the link? Alright okay so good morning everyone! My name is Soo, a faculty advisor for the project. First we would like to thank  each and every one of you for your time and support on our project. We'd like to thank Ted for the generous support and equipment. We would like to thank Jonathan for such a wonderful pretty, 3d print, Robecca cover with even a license plate! Can you imagine? And we would like to thank Alyssa and Alisa for your time and support on our project and we would like to thank Orson providing us the inside of measuring sidewalk slope, sidewalk slope of process and we would like to thank Fabiola Fabiola are you there? I don't see Fabiola Hello, can you hear me? Ah, Fabiola, ok! for scheduling the meetings scheduling meetings is always hard and also I'd like to thank my team Audrey, Adriani, Adriana, Cindy, Judith Mark I'm so lucky to have you all on my team and I can't ask for any more and you guys did an outstanding work mark, so now I'd like to share a welcome message for our department, Mark? [Audio feedback] Hi everyone, I’m Emily Allen, Dean of Cal State LA’s College of Engineering, Computer Science and Technology at Cal State LA and I'm here to welcome you to our Virtual Capstone Expo 2020. That's the Expo that's virtual, not the Capstone Projects. In fact, our student teams I think the audio cut out sorry let me try that again Soo can you please mute your mic? Thank you Physically distant but socially cohesive modes of operation We have nearly 100 project presentations to share live with you over Zoom connections. Our excellent senior design program is it rivals programs nationwide in meeting curricular requirements for design. Engineering design is an iterative, creative, problem-solving process in which science, mathematics, and engineering and computing principles are applied to convert resources into solutions. It has a direct and vital impact on the quality of life for all people. With these stakes in mind our students have been working hard all year long and especially these past few months to finish their projects and these presentations represent the culminating efforts for their degree programs. We deeply appreciate our project sponsors and industry liaisons, our faculty advisors, and the teams that manage and provide instruction for these capstone courses including Mike Thorburn and Chris Bachmann, John Shamma, Howard Lum, Jason Song and Rupa Purasinghe, Paul Liu, Elaine Kang, Jungsoo Lim, and Raj Pamula as well as our staff members Hasmik Simon and Evelyn Li. Now on with the shows and I'll see you online hi everyone Hi everybody. I'm Mike Thorburn and on behalf of the Cal State University Los Angeles and the College of Engineering, Computer Science, and Technology I want to welcome you to the 2020 Engineering, Computer Science, and Technology capstone senior design Expo. This year it's a truly unique experience for us and for you as the expo will be done live via Zoom additionally, sessions will be recorded for those not able to participate in the live event. The students have all worked especially hard to make this event happen and to ensure the audience is able to participate from a safe, social distance. Between Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science Civil Engineering, and Technology we have about a hundred presentations scheduled over a period of about two weeks I encourage you to and participate constructively in as many as you can. Your feedback is critically important to the students. As you're watching this video you must already know about our webpage. If you take time to go through it you'll find detail about all of the presentations and projects. Cal State LA is protecting the event from mischief by using passwords but if you request access will happily send it to you. The students have been working on their projects since August of 2019 obviously the COVID-19 epidemic was a huge disruption over the last month and a half and it's been hard for everybody.  I'm proud to say our Cal State LA Engineering, Computer Science, and Technology students, just as they have always done, have shown great persistence to overcome the obstacles confronting them and have made a tremendous effort to wrap up their projects and present them to you now. On behalf of the University and on behalf of these terrific students I welcome you to Expo 2020 Audrey are you there? I am The floor is yours okay all right can everyone see it? Yes yes okay all right so just to get this started we are the sidewalk monitoring project sponsored by the city of Los Angeles Bureau of engineering. My name is Audrey Stanford. I am the team lead in the project. So just to provide some quick project background, the Bureau of engineering maintains approximately 11,000 miles of sidewalks and unfortunately whether it's due to decay or other natural causes, like root growth, the sidewalk will eventually become difficult to navigate for pedestrians making them no longer in compliance with the ADA standards the American Disabilities Act. So the Bureau of engineering staff measures and surveys the sidewalks manually which is where we step in. So our primary goal was to complete a prototype of a rover that was capable of moving around LA sidewalks will encompassing all of the requirements that are presented on this slide so some of the challenges that we had faced during this project was trying to find a way to get accurate measurements and data from the tools that had provided to us and then making sure that the project was also cost efficient not only for ourselves would also for the bureau another item that we had tackled was and that my team members are going to discuss more was our lack of hardware experience. here are just some of the images of the kind of measurements that we would be taking such as the crossing slope, the running slope, vertical displacement and horizontal displacement. And then now I'm going to pass it on to Adriani who's going to talk about some of the new technologies that we have learned on this project hi my name is Adriani Cocom. My role in the project basically involved the UI and the software architecture so when designing the software we wanted to make sure that it was modular given that this is a multi-year project it was important to create code that was simple to build upon by next year's senior design team we also wanted it to have at least two basic functionalities to be able to control Robecca and to capture view and save her so theta we kept this inline when choosing a programming language. Ultimately we went with Python because it was so well integrated with the rest for a PI but also because of its ease of use and because I had a really great library called tkinter where we could build GUIs on. In the end we built two applications to address these intendant functionalities and I will talk more about these now. So to address the first functionality to be able to control Robecca we built a simple control unit that mimics kind of a handheld remote control so when you press a button Robecca moves forward, back, left, and right and so forth. This was the first application of the project and it was a great learning experience because it helped me kind of learn the ins an out of tkinter to be able to build the second application of the project. To address the second functionality, to be able to to record and save her slope data we concentrated on two devices. A three axis accelerometer along with a GPS mouse and a more expensive digital level are provided by the BOE as you can see on the right. So this is the software for the second software that we worked on and this is specifically for the three axis accelerometer although the GUIss also you the same GUI is used for the digital leveler as you can see the user can see information increments of eight and this is automatically reloaded incoming data is received the user can freeze and unfreeze the software and they can also save all this information in the form of the CSV file. Based on on the accelerometer and the mouse GPS we were able to get the timestamp, the X rotation, and Y rotation. Specifically with the GPS we were able to get the latitude and the longitude. When parsing data for the digital leveler it provided a more interesting challenge because I was unfamiliar with how the digital leveler worked but fortunately our liaison Adriana she contacted Johnson which was the manufacturer of the digital leveler. She brought them into the fold we were able to conference with them and they provided adequate documentation for us to be able to parse the information. So ultimately we were able to get timestamp, the X and the y voltage, the X&Y temperature, the X&Y angle, and the XY percent slope which is which was goal. So how is this software all accessed? Interestingly it's all of the software we built is in the memory of the Raspberry Pi but through the software called VNC were able to remotely login into Robecca and access these applications and execute them using any mobile device so it's just a tablet or a phone the all of the information in the form of a CSV file is also in Robecca's memory and we were also able to access this through VNC ultimately we learned a whole heap of new technologies. We learned Python to tkinter, we've got familiar with raspbian OS, we learned how to use real VNC. I'm confident that next year's team will build upon these technologies and I'm gonna pass off the presentation to Adriana who will talk about another technology that she learned called fusion 360. thank you. Next Slide hi, my name is Adriana Velasco. I was charge of designing a shell that would go over our robot to protect the hardware inside. Before this project I had never worked with SolidWorks or fusion 360 before. I was mainly only familiar with software. When I was tasked to work on the shell using fusion 360 both extremely lost and had no idea as to what I was doing so that led me to been to watch hours upon hours of YouTube tutorials involving fusion 360 and how to make basic designs. As I have mentioned before I had absolutely zero knowledge as to how to use fusion 360 before this project started which led led me to have tons and tons of versions the first obstacle I ran into lists how big the shell had to be in order to cover the entirety of the robot. However the 3d printers were not with the goal of building a shell that big, so the shell had to be cut into pieces which would then be glued together. Another obstacle I ran into was how we were going to be able to easily grab our hardware from inside that robot once the shell was securely screwed onto place which then led me implement a lid on the top portion of the show which would usually which would easily slide on and off next slide luckily for me Jonathan and Karl took over the final stages in the robot which we are all grateful for my favorite design from them is a license plate in which it showcases the Cal State LA logo and the mascot on both sides of the plate thank you so much for your contributions the pieces look amazing and now I will have Judith speak more in depth about [inaudible] hello my name is Judith Cabrera my role in this project is component lead and documentation lead. When we first started working on Robecca the initial setup was to have an operating Rover that will move to collect GPS slopes, sidewalk images that fail to meet the American Disability Act and everything else our liaisons needed. It was not until mid semester when we first met with the field agent that brought up the design specifications and that led for us to spend fall and winter semester disassembling and reassembling the rover next slide please we had few challenges. One of the requirements that were brought up was the directions and dimension of the rover. Like I mentioned our initial plan was to build an operating rover frame. The field agent mentioned the direction should only go forward and backward and the dimensions should be 24 by 24 we had to order new parts for my department which was time-consuming because we had to wait for the shipment to arrive. But meanwhile we waited we disassembled and reassembled our first Rover. The motor was another one of our challenges because at first, all four motors were not communicating with each other but this was a wiring issue that was solved during the winter break our Rover had plastic and computer chair wheels and this was challenging for the rover itself once we took her out to the field we noticed that first Robecca wouldn't be able to operate on sidewalks. Tires were another requirement I needed upgrades because plastic wouldn't provide the true grip needed for this project therefore we upgraded to off-road tires next slide please I'd like you all to look at this picture you see here that Robecca has a lot of components. We have an elbow field vision working monitor and this will be used to showcase the data. GPS module will calculate its position and time we have our Johnson digital leveler and this is used to measure X&Y slopes. We also have an accelerometer this is very important in sensor world because they can send such wide range motion. Next slide please we now have our Raspberry Pi 3 B+ installed in our rover and this is the main module of the system being operated using secure socket shell and virtual network computing server, we connected our main module to this onboard Raspberry Pi and those will send controls to the motors connectivity wise this board is capable of streaming data to and from the board in a rapid manner. Next slide please the camera we use is a GoPro fusion 360 this will be used for image data collection. This camera requires to insert both micro sd in order to capture and save images you can capture images by downloading the application called GoPro to your smartphone that way you don't have to take pictures directly from the camera itself since it is installed on the rover. This camera fusion captures everything that is around you but to get best results one will need to aim one of the lenses directly to the main subject this is very important for this project because the Bureau of Engineering wants images that captures the surrounding of the sidewalks. We now have our separate motor and controller this has a maximum torque at low speeds which makes them useful in high positions. Stepper motors are the motors of choice for many precision motion control applications. This is good for positioning, speed control, and low speed torque. The number of stars per revolution is 200 and the resolution is expressed as degrees per step. In this case, one step is equivalent to one point eight degrees. I will now pass it over to Cindy who will go into further details about our progress. Hi everyone my name is Cindy Wu and I'm the users interface backup on this project. During this project we were forced to learn about new technologies without being given at list of possible resources and our very little knowledge of hardware itself. This proved to be very difficult. One resource that we took advantage of was the makerspace lab. Over the winter break we were able to build the new chasis successfully. And now the little demo will show what we managed to accomplish so far. First we complete designing and building the chasis. And also we have finished the UI to light Robecca can be controlled remotely Robecca is capable of measure closing slope and running slope with GPS data Robecca will collect data and images autonomously. Our data will be saved as the csv file into raspberry pi. And now i will pass on to mark. Hello everyone, my name is Mark Dagraca I came on the project in late january i was brought in to help leverage my years of extensive experience to apply to this project. Next slide please I also helped with electrical design and consulted with choosing the right components such as motors and wiring to perfectly size for this type of robot I reviewed and advice on CAD design and helped was design for a 3d printing manufacturing in totality. I also use my knowledge of integrating hardware and software components into one cohesive unit I reviewed documentation and provided technical subject matter expertise where I was able to help. Audrey, your turn. I'm just gonna finish this off by talking about some of the future plans that we're hoping going to be enacted in the future. So when we were initially starting to make the requirements ideally this was some of the stuff that we would have liked to finish this semester but unfortunately due to the COVID-19 outbreak we were unable to complete this so we were hoping that as far as future teams and their development goes they will be able to finish some of the requirements that we had developed for this project. So one of the such requirement / challenges that we had realized was that the service cannot distinguish grass from concrete. This is what we would call noise. So one of the solutions that we had proposed was figuring out a way to do image texture processing to essentially remove the noise from that image that way we can get more accurate measurements on our devices. Another challenge was that we would love it the robot to be able to avoid collision and sabotage. So one of the some of the solutions that we had proposed was things such as lidar, infrared detection, and then sending an SOS notification to the user should the device be tampered with in any way. And then the final challenge that we were hoping to have tackled and that we were hoping that future teams are gonna be able to take care of is figuring out a way to get the robot to position itself in the middle of the sidewalk so if you the solutions that we had talked was behavior based reactive approach and model-based approach, exploiting various sensors that would be placed on the robot. And so you know just in conclusion I want to take this time to thank all of my incredible team members. It's been such a wonderful learning experience having had been here and I think that we all definitely learned a lot on this project not even just about the new technologies but a lot about ourselves and a lot about different things that isn't necessarily taught in the classroom and then you know once again just a big thank you to the Bureau of Engineering for all of the support and all the tools that you had supplied us it was really such a wonderful experience to be able to have been sponsored by you guys. Thank you so much and then a huge shout out to the CSULA Community. Thank you so much for giving us this wonderful learning experience and huge opportunity so if anyone has any questions now it'd be the time to ask very cautious hello hey this is Ted I was waiting to see if anyone else would go first I just not so much a question but want to say you all did such a great job this year if you look at you know where you started at the end of the year and all of the progress you made in spite of the virus and the social distancing and everything you've worked around it's really really impressive and I'm very excited to keep moving forward with it and progressing on it I think you did a great job of focusing not on trying to do a little of everything but in trying to do a few things that could really be built on well and I think that's a great approach because like you said next year they'll be able to pick up where you left off and develop it further I'll be interested to talk with the team afterward and kind of come up with the checklist of you know things for next year's project to have them focus on because I think even you know next year's project will still need to be kind of modular and building on this because it's obviously a very complex project no other questions but this is Alisa and I just wanted to say congratulations to the team just congratulations on your accomplishment you guys did an excellent job especially overcoming all the obstacles that were presented and just learning all the technology so quickly you know within the span of time that you guys had available to you so thank you guys for doing an amazing job and it was really wonderful working with the entire team and equipment that you brought us it's wonderful thank you very much and your sponsorship I like to say thank you very much on your help on our project I was definitely our prep favorite things we get to do each years working with this project and and this team I would have to say was just incredible and very fun - yeah it was great going on the field trip with you guys - so that was really nice for us this year - to be out there in the field with you guys so oh thank you we were so bummed we couldn't have another field trip cuz we were planning to have one at last yeah I know yeah we really had a great time with you guys out there we learned as much as you guys did about sidewalks thank you I hope school reopened by the time when we do a kickoff meeting so thank you guys you get to see the robot and touch it and run it and see how data get you collected and review the data and so and so forth I can't wait it this corner gets over so then we can go back to school and cut you you walk honey watch like about two three days no these people this could get shut down and I received a notice that I have to stop preparing a class for online as old Oh what am I going to do next they told me they're all or your team member cannot be closed within two meters so what six weeks so everyone has to be separate by 6 feet no that's just impossible I mean nobody selfies it's smaller than 6 feet and how could that be possibly walk on this Rebecca and it was very challenging and we had a problem with Corona found out yeah and we we were planning to go out on the field because they have to a finish assembling and rewrite the program and we will go out on the field and another a large field testing and right before their and as we plan for the pill treatment field testing and having a meeting with you and show you the robot and and work with Jonathan Jonathan again thank you very much Jonathan such a wonderful pretty cover I have never seen such a pretty cover before even with a license plate and then I reach even though he's from the department to cancel the meetings of Howard Saudis operated I mean we were all so disappointed about anyway so we just have to deal with whatever we can the current situation Oh oh my god on any other question thank you can you give me this is Elaine oh hey sorry that is okay so maybe soon mute your speaker while she's talking just just for fi are you a need our deployment chair Elena Joe department chair yeah I guess this is my first time using Microsoft teamwork so I don't know how to set it up right sorry about that so I just joined late to say thank you to our project liaison this is really difficult time for all of us especially I guess this process requires a lot of hard work where's that of an actual physical meeting but despite that I believe our team did a wonderful job with under dr. Loomis guidance and the project leader and saw tribesmen so I really want to personally thank you about that that's why I knew that I'm late mr. joiner in the body to express my thank you for or for the team so can I ask just short question so this question is for the project liaisons how was your experience with the team and with the project and potential extension for the next year hi this is Ted Allen deputy city engineer with the Bureau of engineering yeah I was saying before you joined that this team was really incredible to work with and so impressive and they've really done a great job moving this project forward in a modular way that will set us up to be able to continue next year and so we're very excited about it and extremely pleased with the team's progress and with them as people they're just wonderful okay great so did you see that that it's enough work for the next year oh yeah there's definitely still a lot that can be done probably more than one year's worth I think even one thing we'll explore with you know the advisors before next year's maybe the idea of having a mechanical project now that there's enough known about platform to have a mechanical team move the mechanics of the robot forward and maybe another computer science team to continue with the integration of photo and other sensors that you know are not yet incorporated yeah I think that's great idea we will be able to continue to talk about potential I guess next time with ethylene and project liaisons right okay all right thank you so much or is this the end of the meeting or then we all set what do you think and hope we can see at the kickoff meeting a whole fight at times cool oh by the time school reopens so that we can all get to see face to face at campus so they will we can do a demo with the robot sounds good soon oh thank you everyone thank you to the video the Rick recorded video yeah I think Alisa you can send it to them right I have to jump in an 8:30 call but the team yeah no problem can send it thank you thank you thank you thank you very much 