 Welcome to Ear Biscuits, the podcast where two lifelong friends talk about life for a long time, I'm Link. And I'm Rhett. This week at the round table of dim lighting we're doing something that I'm very excited about. We are going through all the things or some of the things that we have bought in 2020. We're looking back on 2020 through the lens of our Amazon Shopping Cart order history. Yes. This is your idea. Well, actually the general What was the genesis. I the general idea was Stevie's idea. Oh yeah, that's right. In the Ear Biscuits topics doc, that we all share. And then forget to look at until like six months later. And this is like we were having these conversations about what people, everybody was buying things new in different ways. And I know I was buying things almost therapeutically. Like in quarantine you don't have a lot of things to interact with other than your family, you find yourself like going to Amazon and thinking, I do need that, if you're me, at least. And so when she said, what did you buy in quarantine? That was like six months ago she suggested that, so now it's, what did you buy in 2020? Because we're almost done with the year, bro. Yeah you can look back. I mean, it's not that we bought everything through Amazon, but I mean. It's the easiest place. We are submitting to our shopping corporate overlord, it's just, you can't help yourself. Well, I mean. We buy local too. Yeah, we're not gonna get- Mostly when it comes to food. Yeah, we're not gonna get into a commentary of the nature of buying so many things through Amazon. Matter of fact let's not even mention Amazon in this conversation. But all these are gonna be Amazon links and we're also gonna link all the things that we talk about in the description of both the audio and video podcasts with our affiliate links. Because I mean, if you don't end up buying some of the stuff after I talk about it, then I'm a bad salesman. So you're telling me if they click on the link that we provide- I don't really know how it works. Then we get a little cut of it? I think it goes, it might go to charity. Honestly, all I know- Is that it's fun to talk about what you bought. I feel like I should know how the affiliate program works. It's better if you don't, because it makes us more pure. 'Cause I think it's actually very simple, but I just have never asked any questions. People are just like, oh yeah, we have an affiliate program. I'm assuming it's a referral little stipend but we're not doing this to make money. No, no, it's interesting, well- We're doing this because you got a charge out of buying these things now you getting charge out of talking about it. Well, you might notice there's a slight difference. Now I went through my Amazon history. Me too, I did as well. Now let me say that, this is not my wife's Amazon and my Amazon, we have separate prime accounts. I don't know exactly how that started, but- So you're paying double. Well, you can share accounts on the prime but that dint work for me. The reason I started it is because I had to get her presents through Amazon. And I don't want her to know that what I'm getting for different holidays and birthdays and stuff. Right. So I'm sure there was a smarter way to do this but long ago I just started my own account. And so just to let you know this is all things that I individually decided to buy. This is not what my kids wanted, this isn't what my wife wanted. That's a separate account. And I picked out what I'm guessing is 10% of the items that I bought in 2020 and I have 35 things to go through. I went through my Amazon account, which I share with Christy, it's technically Christy's account because you know you wanna get the prime shipping. And then the thing where you can add my own account to her account and link the prime shipping to be shared by the family, I didn't quite figure that out. So the affiliate program is so complex that you really need a degree. I got time for that. To get through it. So the vast majority of things that I look back through on 2020 of my account, everything our family purchases is in there. So you had to find the things that you I had to like sit down. Individually wanted and bought. Yeah. And how many things did you bring to the table? Four. I bought slightly more things than that, but they were just like. There's a big difference, man. I mean, yeah. We got different personalities, different disposition. I didn't want one of my things to be paper towels or toilet tissue. You picked the interesting things that are related to your- Most of the things I picked I think there's definitely a story behind, like I said nine out of 10 things I did not put on this list. We are very different people when it comes to buying things, maybe we'll get into that later. But I'll pepper in some of mine. I mean, I've only got four, so how do you- Is one of them pepper? How do you wanna do this? Well, but we should get started 'cause I got a lot to talk about. Yeah, go for it. Now, some of these will have some associated background and some of it I might just say and if you have a question about them, you ask it, if you don't, I might just move on, okay? That's right. This is in reverse chronological order, so I'm starting with the most recent things and going deeper into the year. Backwards. I could have been made it more interesting but it's this simple. First item, Best Maid Dill Juice. Dill Juice? Dill juice. D-I-L-L, okay you're talking about pickle juice. Yeah. I know what this one is. Right, it's 'cause I told you about this. You made some hot chicken sandwiches at your home. Right, I made some- This is a sore subject for me. Yeah, well we can talk about that because your wife had some choice words for you at the get together at your house. I didn't appreciate that. Well, I didn't say anything about it. Well, what you did say was, ''tomorrow I'm making hot chicken sandwiches, I've done research and I'm gonna make these at home. Did you know that they brine the chicken in Dill Pickle Juice, and that's the secret. And I'm doing this tomorrow and we're really excited about it.'' And I was kinda locked in on Christy as I was talking about it 'cause I knew that she would care more than anyone else. Oh and she did, and she was like, ''I'm excited about it too, can I get one?'' Man I wish, and then she turned to me, she's like, ''I wish you would do stuff like this. I wish that you would like come up with something to cook, and then the next thing you know you're cooking it and then we're eating it.'' Right, that's kinda how it works. I mean like, I didn't know what to say. Well, it's fine because I also closed talking about it with the promise that I'm gonna become like my own little pop-up. And I'm gonna be making these things. And I was perfecting this recipe by doing it for my family. And boy, I got it right on the first try and so next time and I'm gonna do this when I make brisket and when I make pull pork and I'm gonna make more. I believe in this, this doesn't make me mad. I'm gonna make more than I need and I'm gonna take some to my friends including your family for I'm free. And you know what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna gladly. Eat it. Take it. But then if it becomes a thing I'll be gladly to make it our thing that like I could help with promotion. Well, it's not a money-making scheme. This is just a generosity thing and in fact- I can help with the content, the ancillary content. The last piece of the puzzle is pies. I wanna figure out how to make amazing pies. Actually the whole idea I was gonna call it thighs and pies, but it's more than just thighs. What about pie-thighs. It's also a barbecue and it's other things. Chicken sandwich that's made with the thigh is the best man. Nobody does that. Lindsay who works with Jesse was at the house last night and she had been at the house during the day and I got home and I was like, where's, 'cause I made this this weekend, and I had like six pieces of this chicken leftover. And I got home last night and it was all gone. And I was like, oh, y'all ate all the chicken and then Lindsay said, and she said, ''I ate a piece straight out of the fridge cold.'' She said, ''that is the best fried chicken I've ever had in my life.'' But it's not just fried chicken, it is Nashville hot chicken, right? Yeah. So if you're saying that's the best fried chicken you've had, that's like a different category. Well, here's the thing when I finished frying it and I put it in the fridge it had like the spicy stuff in the dredge and like coating on it, but it did not have the sauce on it, which is a separate step that you do after you take it off the grill. But I didn't want the sauce to make the breading soggy for leftovers. So they just ate it just a straight up chicken so it kinda comes across like a Bojangles like Cajun chicken, which is really good, I mean. And you deep fry it? Yeah, I fried it. A pan fry. I fried it in like a three-quarters inch of a peanut oil in a big pan. Okay. So yeah, just like four minutes, turn it, that kinda thing. Anyway, that's just one, I mean. Keep going. I can't talk about everything that much, but that was a sore spot because your wife is upset about it. I'm gonna just- She wasn't upset. You might have to decipher what it is I bought because I'm literally reading word for word, the name of the title on Amazon. Okay. Kohler K four zero zero nine, zero Reveal Quiet-Close with Grip-Tight Bumpers, Round-front Toilet Seat White. Round front toilet seat. I buy a toilet seat for my boys bathroom because they're so rough on everything. They broke it? They broke the toilet seat. Or they permanently stained it. I think they sat too hard on it or maybe they peed too hard on it. Oh God. And it was the kinda thing that two boys in a bathroom with a broken toilet seat turned into two boys in a bathroom with a toilet with no seat for longer than we should have let that happen. The seat wasn't even all there. No seat. So they only peed in it. Yeah, and they came to my bathroom to take a dump or the guest bathroom to take a dump. And it took about six weeks for me to get tired of that. Oh gosh, did you think about getting a cushiony one that like it's got little holes. Well, it's interesting that you asked this because when the toilet seat came and I said, hey Shepherd, hey come here, I'm gonna show you how to install a toilet seat. This is something somebody you should know, learn from your dad. And the first thing he said, he was like, did you get a good one. I'm just like, what, was he thinking about the soft kind? 'Cause I was like, what do you mean? He was like, you know, like a good one. I had a babysitter who had to get one, old people they'll have a cushiony one, and it's- Sometimes they got carpet on them. Oh my, yes. That's the most unfamiliar thing I've ever heard of. I think you're getting something confused. The Tod has got a lot of them. A lot of old people they'll put like a crocheted toilet lid cover, but it's not on the seat itself, it's just decorative. I think that was a fad. I think that the soft toilet seat is asking too much out of life. If you have a crocheted lid and you lift that thing up, you should be expecting a, it's vinyl, I believe. It's like plastic-y and then it has like styrofoam, like foam inside of it. My grandma had one. And when you sit on it the first time, it's like, oh, this is pleasant. But then it starts to sprout leaks and when you sit on it little pinholes of air will just come out around your hips. It feels good though. But then you sink down into hardness. Well, all people have it I think because as you get older, you lose muscle and fat and you got a bony butt. So I don't have a bony yet, I will, and at that point I'll get a soft one, Shepherd will be happy. Golden Saffron Lets move on. finest pure premium all red saffron threads, grade A plus, highest grade saffron for tea, paella, rice, desserts, no artificial, no Preservatives, two grams. So this is- It's another cooking expedition, I've been on. Yeah, a lot of cooking stuff. I'll also just throw in big Paella, 22 inch carbon steel Paella pan 55 centimeters, bought at the same time. 22 Inch. Yeah. A two foot diameter. It's a very large Paella pan. Now, as you know, out in my grill area that I just made an appearance on, Fancy Fast Food. I heard about that. 'Cause we smoked some stuff for the McRib. I didn't watch it, I wasn't there. You may not have seen, but I got a big burner out there because I wanted the option to make a big Paella for a lot of people who come over when the pandemic is over. Predicament, the pan predicament, you should get a name for it. But again, I'm getting my recipes on a lock before I share them with my friends. So I'm testing them on my family, and so- You're really fixated on the hosting component and I think that is driving your culinary. You know me, I like to create experiences that's why I did the game night and I like the idea of like, hey everybody, we're gonna have this giant ass Paella that I made. And I like to experience things. You like to eat things that other people make for you listen so do I, nothing wrong with that. I like to be served. And as you know, as we talked about on the show, saffron is something that you and I both didn't really like when they made some kinda saffron dish on the show, we talked about how it tasted like pool water. What I learned is that a little bit, I mean, a tiny bit of saffron goes a very long way. I used this tiny little pinch, like four or five little strands of this stuff in like a 14 inch pipe. It comes in threads, is that what you've read in the- Yeah, yeah, threads. Like is it a plant or is it- Well it's not an animal. Well because it's golden and it comes in threads, I start to think of it as like something like Rumpelstiltskin with fabric. It's like that little threads that long anyway. It's fabric. I'm on the saffron train 'cause I'd know that a little bit goes a long way. And it just, my first Paella chicken and also I got rice and chorizo from Spain and it's absolutely heavenly. I mean, you're gonna love it, you're gonna absolutely love it. I'll do it for you in the 22 inch pan which I still haven't used because I used the small pan 'cause I'm not gonna feed my entire family with a 22 inch Paella, that's crazy. It gets a bit fruit fruit, like the fried chicken. Paella fruit fruit? But when you're like, I got the thing from Spain and you know. If you're gonna do it, do it right. If I may. You may. When you're hosting people, hold some of the details close to the vest, okay. Because you run the risk. Oh, I'm not gonna tell them what's in there. If you're like, well, you know, I got this, it's kinda like. I'm not gonna use that voice if I say it. Yeah, you gotta give them a little bit. If people are really interested, then you can give them a little bit more. But don't just give them everything like, well, I sourced this from Spain and I source this from Switzerland and Rumpelstiltskin himself, I got him on the phone. You wait until you taste. You wait until you taste the Spanish chorizo, oh gosh. I mean, I'm thinking about it right now, my mouth is watering. Let us taste it and then see how much of the details we want. Here's something a little less exciting. I mean, I got a list too. I'll say this really quick and then we'll hit yours. I mean, you've got four things I'm trying to like, I gotta kinda get through. But they're big. AC Infinity MULTIFAN S7-P, Quiet Dual 120mm AC-Powered Fan with speed control, UL-Certified for receiver DVR playstation Xbox computer cabinet cooling, if you can figure that one out. Well, you got a cooling fan, for what? For DVR cooling. So, you know I've got my media set up outside. Right, I showed you that too. And you saw we watched one little YouTube video out there I just gave you a taste. Yes, yes. But the receiver and I don't know, I didn't set it up, I got a guy to do it, but the components inside the cabinet which is outside, got so hot that I like opened the thing and like a heat wave, like burst into my face. And I touched the side of it, I was like, man I can fry an egg on this thing, that seems like it could burn my house down. You might paella on it. And so then I started trying to figure out what the solutions were. And so I bought these cooling fans. So it's kinda like a fan that would be in a computer that you would. Yeah, you can put them in the door or you can what I did is I made it where the door is a little bit open up with some spacers so that there's a big crack all along the sides of the door. And then I put the fans in the front and they, some of them pull air in and some push it out. So it brings in the outside air and circulates it. And it also, this thing comes with a thermometer, a thermostat essentially, that you can set at what temperature the cabinet has to get to before they come on. I mean, of course this exists, but I didn't know about this world of fans, now I do. And you would put this in yourself. Oh, it's simple, super simple. That reminds me when I look back through the Amazon history, I started realizing how much crap Lincoln has bought. Like he buy fans, all types of computer stuff. He built a computer. Last Christmas, he got a computer. And then over the course of quarantine, he has disassembled and rebuilt the entire computer. That's what you gotta do. And he was like, you know what, I shouldn't have bought that pre-made thing you gotta build it yourself. They're on discord, shaming each other about if they built their own computer or not. So now, but I liked the fact that like this was his project and he was figuring stuff out. You know he fried his motherboard because he didn't use proper techniques to troubleshoot something. There's so much LED situation inside of a computer these days. Just for show, right. Just for show. And he couldn't get all that to work and he fried his motherboard by touching the wrong thing with it being plugged in. You gotta have like gloves on when you are working with that stuff. You know what he learned his lesson. But then he bought another motherboard. Yeah, but with his money, all of this stuff is with his money. But it is through our Amazon account and yeah, he went in debt to get another motherboard. But I was like, you know what, he needs to experience the sinking feeling of investing his emotional and physical energy into a project and then totally tanking it. And then having to figure out how to start over. That's an important life lesson. I could see that, I mean, the look on his face, I was like. You were there when it happened. This is a good moment. No, well, I got home from work and he was like he had this, Christy told me you should go in and talk to Lincoln and he's just in his room just like staring dejected. And he like confessed what had happened. And then I taught him how to do some googling in order to really figure out what was wrong and what needed to be fixed. So I didn't do it for him, but I helped him figure out how to develop. You helped google. I helped him google the right thing. There's an art to it. So I'm sifting through all these computer parts to get to my thing. And okay, I guess in reverse chronological order incidentally, I feel like I've talked about all of these things in one place or another. 'Cause I buy so few things. Have I talked about my ultra slim wallet, Slim Minimalist Front Pocket RFID Blocking Leather Wallets for Men Women, that's what it says. I got it in my pocket. I had a slim wallet for over 10 years and the whole thing was falling apart to the point where it had a little plastic thing that you could see the driver's license through it, just like this new one has, but it had frayed open. So every time I reached to get my wallet, sometimes that little hard piece of plastic would wedge itself in between behind my fingernail. which is a form of torture. How long did you deal with that? Probably six years? Like, no exaggeration. My wallet was at that level of dilapidation for six years. And you know what, an ad came up on Instagram for an ultra thin wallet. Yeah they knew you wanted one. And I was like, you know what, I'm gonna click on this and I'm gonna buy it and I'm gonna tell Rhett I did. And he's gonna be so happy for me. I actually clicked on an ad and bought something. Something I'd never do, ever. Yeah. So I did that, I dropped like $23 on this wallet and never got it. Oh, about to say 'cause this is Amazon so you had to go. I never got it. And this like, you got one like it from Amazon. I got one like it, I was like you know what, this freaking wallets never come in I emailed them and told them I want my money back or give me the wallet. No response, it just fizzled out. The one time I take a risk to buy something based on an ad in an impulse kinda way it blows up in my face. That happened to me one time this year. I think it has something to do with- It's the only time I bought something. I don't know what the standards are for getting something on Instagram ads, but the process, and again, this is one of the reasons that so many people buy things on Amazon. It's like you're buying from a kick-starter. Yeah. It's like well, we're not really making the wallet yet. They haven't always gotten their stuff together. So, I got this wallet and I've been carrying it in my computer bag more than I've been carrying it in my back pocket. It's not slim enough for you. It is a bit bigger, so I'm not too happy. My wallet is from an Instagram ad as well. I've shown it to you. I'm not going into my Instagram purchases that could be a whole different episode because I'm that guy who is susceptible to advertising. So I bought that. What, a wallet? You know what, I have so much anxiety around buying stuff. Like I was mad about that wallet, man. I felt like, you know, I learned my lesson, never buying anything again. Like literally that's how I felt. And then I like had to work have the energy to buy that wallet. I was like, man, maybe it's just a sign I keep my old wallet. We might get into the psychology of that in a little bit. But we do need to take a break and make some money so that I can continue to buy things on Amazon. And ironically, we're gonna talk about amazon.com/mythical because that is our Amazon store where we sell things that are exclusive to Amazon. So a bunch of apparel. Check it out. We also have our entire grooming line over there. And there's a whole section, we've got a divided by section, where there's a section called music and media where you can go there and you can buy like, two of our musicality special, our books. It's all in one place, so convenient. I'm crying over here. Check it out. Yeah, 'cause you spent money on a wallet. Lando asked me and so he's like dad, I need some more mythical pomade, the other stuff that you got me doesn't work. Off course it doesn't, yeah. And I'm like, of course here I am admitting that I give my son other stuff. But we just had some extra stuff laying around in that little window before I could get more mythical pomade home. And he insisted, he says, I can't use it, it doesn't meet my standard, only mythical pomade meets Lando's standard and my standard by the way. Get it at amazon.com/mythical. Mythical pomade the perfect pomade for 11 year olds. Okay, moving on. I've already told the story about this it's worth mentioning though, United Ortho Short Air Cam Walker Fracture Boot large black. We talked about the boot that I got for Locke. Oh, fracture boot. It's a fracture boot, was not ever used by the way. So I have a fracture boot if you're in the market for it. Never used. He tried to use it one time and then the next day was okay. Lets move on. You know, let's move on. Metal Food Grinder attachment for KitchenAid Stand Mixers and includes two sausages stuffer tubes. Okay, so I'm losing interest 'cause everything's cooking related. This is a sausage maker. It's a grinder that you put on the KitchenAid. Does it work? Haven't used it yet. You haven't used it. I got it because I want to pasteurize my own meat and grind it so that I can have a medium rare and rare burgers and it'd be okay. So you have to like flash boil your meat to pasteurize it and you can get like a better cut of meat then you can grind it and then you can immediately patty it and grill it. It is quite an experience. Because you want it to be redder. If it's really good meat, yes. Okay. Now this is not gonna- You can get it In-N-Out or Shake Shack. You do not want a pink burger at one of those places. Yeah, but if you want a really good burger you just go to one of those places. But they're not gonna use the meat that I'm gonna use buddy role. You know what, I assume it's not just you can talk about it you actually also enjoy the process as well, right? You're doing this for your self? I Don't just do things like I talk about them I didn't know we were gonna do this episode. No, this is throughout the year I've bought these things because now, okay, I'm gonna show you a picture, Link I can't show you the picture, 'cause my wife took it and you're not gonna appreciate this, but I also got a 30 inch steel Hand Hammered Cantonese Wok. 30 inch, what, diameter? This walk, it feels much bigger than 30 inches I think the bottom might be 30 inches. Like have you ever looked in the back of a Chinese restaurant and seen the woks they are cooking on. I gotta wok, that is no lie this big. And I am gonna also- I could curl up inside of this wok. Yeah, I have to keep it in the attic because I can't find any place big enough to keep it. It's in the attic. Yeah, and there it will stay. Nope, because again, so I'm gonna have like four or five different things I can do for parties. I'm so ready to cook for parties. When the pandemic, I don't know why I can't say the word. When the pandemic is over, we're gonna have the most kick ass parties and I'm gonna be catering. That's not how it's gonna work. It's not like one day the pandemic is gonna be over. Well, there's gonna be a point in which we can freely gather without anybody worried about anything. I mean, I'm just saying that that's gonna happen eventually. Now I'm going to, and I don't want to know what my Chinese food recipe is going to be, I've been thinking about something in the Kung Poa space, but anyway, I'm gonna be able to make so much of it that we could have 100 people over and I could feed all of them. I do understand this whole cooped up and not seeing people. And then you're channeling what you can learn now into something that can then reach ultimate fruition later. And it's not, the timing of it is the fact that we just finished the outdoor area. And I cared about like the media area with the screen and then the barbecue area, right. Those are the areas that I cared about because this is my place where I'm wanting to get it just right. Give me the next one, is it cooking related. Not food. BN-LINK Compact Outdoor Mechanical Timer 24 hour. Me and link, what? BN-LINK Compact Outdoor Mechanical Timer 24 hour programmable dual outlet timer, plugin waterproof heavy duty, accurate for lamps, outdoor Christmas lights, et cetera. Okay, just a timer. I haven't told you. I don't know if I taught you about this. A plug in timer. One of the things that I'm also going to do at the house is I'm going to make with my son, a cold plunge pool using an old or a brand, actually, a new freezer. This might sound dangerous, but if you wanna get like so I'm saying like, if you wanna take a nice bath, if you wanna do what the athletes do. So what I wanna do is I wanna be able like get in the hot tub and then get in, I wanna do the cold, hot, cold, hot plunge thing and just send myself into a euphoric state and then make prophecies. But in order to do that, if you wanna get a plunge pool and you wanna like get a real plunge pool, you're not gonna get out for less than like eight, $10,000. I don't wanna spend that kind of money. But, what I found- You gonna buy big pots with that money. I found a YouTube rabbit hole of these people who are using top-loading freezers to create plunge pools. You talking about the type of freezer that like a serial killer would just dump body bodies into. Bodies in yeah, but you put your live body in it with water. With the lid up. With the lid up. And if that lid goes down. Well, you can get out. Somebody should be supervising you though. You push it, like a lot. I don't recommend this and this hole, the timer, is that you only want to run it you're gonna put water in there, right. And the timer is gonna run every, like in the middle of the night it's gonna turn the freezer on to cool the water and then it's gonna turn off 'cause you also have a bag ice in there. And you get where you can monitor the temperature and based on the weather, you know how long you need to run this thing. And of course then before you get in it, you unplug it even though you silicone seal the inside so that it won't leak. You don't want the freezer to be plugged in when you get into it, you know electricity is bad. Yeah, Lincoln learned that with his motherboard. Yeah, so anyway, but did you know what happened during the pandemic? Top-loading freezers sold out everywhere. So I got all the ancillary pieces to this. For this reason? Nope, because people are trying to store food. That's a better reason. They're all worried about not having enough. So everyone's like, we gotta get them, all our meat frozen because who knows what's gonna happen. Because of what. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah, and so all these top-loading freezers that are the right size, literally every big box store that I looked like a couple of months ago, completely sold out. They don't know when they were gonna be back in. I haven't checked recently. So you've got the timer. I have got the timer, the sealer, the thermometer. I've got all the ancillary pieces. I just don't have the freezer. So when the freezers are back in stock and they might be, I haven't checked lately, I'm gonna get one and you can come over and take an ice bath anytime you want. I know you love him. A lot of things sold out because the pipelines are screwy or shut down for whatever components of on any number or thing. I was thinking about getting a mountain bike, and- And they sold out. You cannot buy a new mountain bike. 'Cause everybody is like, I gotta get outside, I got a bike. Yeah, so it's like, I mean, if you pick a new one you might be waiting six months and that's a tenuous. I mean, it could be a year. Right. So I didn't order one at all and now I'm thinking man, if I'd ordered one a month ago. You'd have it now. Well, I wouldn't have it but I would be a month closer to having it. Just do it man, just go for it. You need a new mountain bike. You're doing it all the time now. And your boy that you mountain bike with just got like a awesome mountain bike. I know he did. That makes you look bad and weak. So you need to get a good mountain bike. I think he is having more fun than me it's not jostling his- Testicles His tail as much. I've still got a hard tail. You've gotta get soft tails. He's got a spongy tail. You gotta be soft on both sides of the bike. I bet you there be one that stung me if I'd have had one. No, you would've gone right under it. I go through all these conversations trying to justify and then I don't do it. I mean, my latest purchase, my biggest purchase of the entire year I've been thinking about for over a year. And I finally pulled the trigger on it because Christy gave me such a hard time. She was like, just get the television. Oh, that's a big television. I enjoyed it the other night. Watch Us on it. Yeah, 'cause the- Not us, I didn't watch us, I didn't watch like. Good Mythical Morning. I watched the movie Us on it. Yeah, I was like, the wall in our entertainment room my TV was too small. Too small, I know I didn't say anything about it but I thought it a lot. It was dwarfed by the wall and by the couch and everything, it just wasn't proportional. But I bought that television for that room. Yeah, that was a good place to watch things. But, no I'm saying I bought the television that was too small. The one that was in there for years. You went too small too early. I went to small right from the get-go and then I'm like, I didn't wanna return it. And then I was like, I don't deserve a bigger television, even though this was too small for the room. And then I'm like, every time I watch television I'm a little mad about it but then I just can't justify buying one of these bigger televisions. The question you should always be asking about a television is, is this too big? Not is this too small? If you're asking, is this too small, the answer is yes and you shouldn't buy it. Is this too big? You're in the right place. You're getting close. Yeah, and you know what, I finally did it. A couple of weeks ago I bought the television and I got the Apple TV. You know, the thing that put it over the edge was at Mike's house. He's got an Apple TV and I'm like, what is this? What is this amazing image on your screen? And it's just a screensaver like- Of a city. Slow-mo drone footage of flying over Los Angeles. And you can see. Everything. You can see like inside of people's offices. Like I stood in front of his television and I just watched it. And I was like, how do I get one of these? And he was like, well, it's the screensaver for Apple TV. It won't look good if it's not for a K. Won't look good, so I backed into getting this big old television and I gotta say we're enjoying it. And I should have done it years ago. Yeah, think of all the movies that could have been a little bit bigger. A little bit bigger. You'll never get that back. Gotta go back and watch them all. But I thought about for a year before I actually. Yeah, I don't typically think that long. I think that might be your issue. As soon as you think of it, you just gotta do it. LITERRA. Can't do it. Men's six pack running ankle socks, low cut performance, athletic custom cushion tab sock. Okay, so you got some socks. I pull the trigger on these particular socks quarterly because this is my only way to combat the problem of the missing socks in my family. Now that I've got two boys who are, I mean, Locke especially comes into my room and takes my socks and they typically do not come back. These athletic socks that we need for working out or walking or whatever. There's just some sort of monster that eats them and so I'd have to like reload six pairs quarterly is the only way to just remain socks in my house. Are you still doing the plan that we talked about a while back, that was like they're all the same type and they're all the same color. 'Cause I've done that for the most part and I love it. And then your kid's socks are different? Lincoln has the same socks. Lincoln and I basically share socks. Well, yeah, that's what me and Locke do. And I'm sure Shepherd he's getting close to being a part of that, yeah. And so they're all the same color. Essentially yeah, I mean, these are all just white ankle socks. And then I've got like black crew socks and those are basically the only socks that I wear. You know what, I actually bought some socks too in preparation for- Is that one of your four? Me and Christy's trip. Actually it's not, no. Oh, look at that. I was like, I'm not going to put socks on the list. I mean, I'm sure Rhett wouldn't like me talking about something. I'm not gonna do that socks. Like socks, I got some hiking socks and I got some for me and I got some for Christy, they kinda matching, she hated them. But I was like, you know they're very functional. Hiking socks are important. They are important. LifeBoard, Portable Floor to Enhance Yoga, Pilates or Ballet Barre Exercise at Home on Carpet or Outdoors. Portable floor. Yeah. So a hard floor to go over carpet, but there's no carpet in your house. This was for my solo trip and any subsequent camping trip. I have to do my back exercises every single morning. And I was like, when I did my solo trip before this most recent solo trip, I didn't have anything and it out next to Joshua tree and I found a piece of plywood that someone had put next to a fire. And I took that plywood and I did all my back exercises on the plywood. 'Cause you're having to put your knees and then lay down on the ground. Yeah, I had to do all the stuff that you gotta be on a hard surface. And so it turns out they make this plastic thing, that again, is for people who are like, I'm gonna go do Pilates in the grass in Central Park. So I wanna have like a board to do it or whatever. It rolls up? It's just two pieces that fit together like this, like and they kinda come together. Did you use it? Yeah, I use it. I gotta figure out a better way to travel with it. When I'm doing the solo trip, it was no big deal. 'Cause I got so much room in the car for myself but we're going camping with the boys soon and I have to take it and I don't know exactly what I'm gonna do. You could also use it as a sun shield when you park on the windshield. It's too big. But you can store it there. You could strap it to the roof. I thought about that, but I got the tent up there and it's just like, I gotta put it under it or something. You know what, put it in the attic underneath that big bowl you bought. Give me another one. Okay. And then I'll hit you with one. YSENTO men's casual cotton shorts, 3/4 jogger capri crop-pants below knee shorts with pockets, light gray 34. Okay, so long shorts. Shorts that go past your knee. Capri pants, I bought capri pants. They are called shorts, which helps. But if you wanna call them capri pants, go for it. Have I seen you wear these. I like them comfortable. No, I wear them at the house sometimes. Do they have a drawstring or do they kinda cinch at the ends or are they just flapping? It's just like sweats. How's that going for you? They're comfortable, I enjoy them. You know as the weather begins to cool down, I can do my stretches outside in these. But your cuffs still stays cool. Given my knees are very warm. Okay, next thing I bought was, Utopia Care Scissors, silver 899. Now these things are professional grade texturing scissors with finger inserts. If you have small fingers, you put these finger inserts in there so that it's still tight on your finger. This is a scissor that it only cuts half of your whatever's in it. So it's like a thinning shear? Yeah. I've seen Ana use these on both of us. And I was watching her closely. And then I'm like, you know what, I'm cutting my own hair in quarantine. And my hair is so thick, I gotta up my game. So I had to buy some of these. It's a bit scary to use a thinning shear because- 'Cause you get close to the base and you cut and it's feels like. And then you cut. Cut and comb. And then you comb it out and all of a sudden, a huge clump of hair comes out that's like, I mean a handful. And then you just- You sure you're doing it right? You keep doing it. I mean, then your hair looks the same. Well, Ana is not cutting my hair again in the parking lot. So I'm not doing it anymore but- But you already you cutting Oh, it definitely helped. but it takes guts, man. It takes approximately- I won't do it. The same amount of guts it takes for me to purchase a wallet or a television or anything really, to thin out my own hair. But now you're ready for any situation in which, and you can cut my hair, you used to cut my hair for a very long time. I'd gladly cut it. Are you making a suggestion? No, no, no, no, nothing. What else did you buy? Well, I will just say quickly, I'm not gonna read the whole thing 'cause it's too long but I did buy a phone screen protectors. I think I talked about this earlier. I just found that the screen protectors and the phone cases that you get when at your provider, like if you are like an AT&T Verizon and whatever and you buy that stuff along with your phone you're gonna pay really, really high prices for all this stuff. Like one of those glass, like tempered glass screen protectors will be like 35 bucks if you buy it at the store, but you can get a three pack on Amazon. Let's see, what is the price of this thing? Three pack for 1599. 16 bucks you get three. This is something that I know. I mean, for years I will be in a place looking for something and I'll be on my phone looking at it from somewhere else just because I'm like, man, I could either have it right now or I could probably get it for 10% cheaper online or get a slightly different one or at least feel validated in my purchase. And then I'll do that. And even when it comes to like phone cases or screens I'll go through all of that trouble. And then, you know what I'll do, I won't buy anything. That's like getting ready to watch Netflix and you don't end up watching anything. Yeah, you just look at the menu. Right, don't be that. I mean, there's no screen protector on my phone. I mean, I do have a case but I don't have a screen protector. I got that case for $7. $7 case you see it's just as good as anything. I got this screen protector for $0 'cause I don't have one. That's even better deal. Exactly. Seasense air horn jumbo, eight ounce. Eight ounce, what do you mean like, so like a canned air. Yeah, this is from my rap career, that's on the side. I got this- Emergency horn for boating. When I went on my solo trip, it's just a general sort of survival thing also it's been shown to be effective in scaring away mountain lions or bears. But I also got bear spray, which incidentally, you cannot get on Amazon because they will not ship it to me in California. And I don't know if that's a state thing. I mean, they sell it on Amazon. So the only way to get bear spray is to buy it from a retail store, like REI and then go pick it up. I got that too, but that's not one of my purchases. So did you walk around with a belt with bear spray and a horn on. I didn't end up hiking. I couldn't, the place that I needed it I couldn't get into because the National Forest were closed but I didn't know that was gonna be the case before because of the fires. Did you blast the horn just to test it. No, 'cause I feel like that's like a fire extinguisher and I, you know, it's limited pressure. It's eight ounces. I don't know how many seconds that translates into. Yeah, well it's a blast. You should have bought two just so you'll know how long you have to blast. Along that same line, the next three purchases which I'll go through quickly were all from my solo trip. Atomic Bear Paracord Bracelet, two pack. Atomic bear. So that's just the brand, but this is basically a little bracelet that's got a firestarter built into it and also like a paracord. It's just like, so you're completely ready for anything. This was really if I was gonna go in. What do you mean that what would you use with a paracord. Like a parachute string? Having rope I've been told is very important when you're in a survival situation. I don't exactly know what I would use it for but I think if my life depended on it, I would figure it out real quick. Apparently rope is very important because it's in all these survival things. But you don't even know how you would use it. You bought a bracelet. I bought a bracelet that was a firestarter. Yeah, and it also has a loud whistle and an emergency knife all built into just the bracelet. I didn't know what kind of stuff I was gonna get into. Anyway it was real cheap. I also got a 6.5 foot Pop Up Changing Shower Privacy Tent, Portable Utility Shelter Room for Camping Shower Toilet Bathroom Trade Shows, Beach Spray tan popup. Beach spray tan popup. Green, yeah. Okay, so basically a shower curtain for camping. Yeah, because I was gonna be taking showers and pooping just next to my car. And I didn't know where it was I gonna go. How did that go? I never pooped or showered in a place where somebody could see me. So I just showered and pooped in the open. So you didn't use it. I opened it up one time to be like, let's see what this feels like. Okay. I'm bringing it on our trip. Did you start a fire with your. No, fires were illegal, you couldn't start fires. See, and I don't like being this guy, like what I'm doing to you right now I do to myself and nothing good comes of it. Like, whenever I have to shop for something or whenever I find myself shopping, I'm making a decision as if I have to defend myself to somebody. Like I'm treating you the way I feel like, someone will treat me with every single purchase. Like I'm gonna be grilled and have to justify everything. Seriously, like that's how I- But you're justifying it to yourself. But that's not how it feels in my brain. It actually feels like I'm gonna be, what's the word where somebody in a courtroom is asking a lot of questions. Interrogated. Yeah. It's interesting though. That's not really, that's more of like in a criminal. Is interesting because- But yeah, it's inner critic thing. Well again, the ever- And here I am putting it on you. The ever teased Enneagram episode, we're both self pres. I'm a three, you're a self pres one. And I think that's one of the reasons that, I mean, I'm also an impulse buyer, but what I do is I tend to envision a scenario and I think about all the things that I need to have and be prepared for. And then I'm like, oh man, I'm gonna be like camping next to somebody I just bought this toilet that it's basically this bag I'm gonna take a shit in, I don't want somebody to watch me do this. I wonder if there's some sort of privacy thing. And then all of a sudden there it is for 20 bucks and you just buy it. And the fact that you didn't use it it doesn't make you feel bad about the purchase. I want to have everything, I wanna be completely prepared. We're going camping in a couple of weeks with our kids and we're gonna be on the road for a few days. And I know that they're gonna want to, I mean, you're taking a van that has a toilet in it. Yeah, it is. But and you're not gonna want everybody taking craps in your toilet, right? That's a conversation we need to have, yes. When they can take a crap in a bag that I can just throw into the trash somewhere. That's probably preferable. But I mean, my kids don't wanna take a crap, I might take a crap in front of you and your kids I got no shame. That's a conversation we need to have too. But the kids don't wanna do that and so I've got a privacy thing for them. Here you go. I have an entire van. So I am loosening up and making some purchases. I mean, I'm renting this freaking van 'cause I'm committed to van life. My most recent purchase was the smallest Nespresso machine that they have. Hold on, you have like a really nice coffee machine. Whenever we go somewhere I always anxious about what kind of coffee machine they're gonna have at the Airbnb. Last, when I rented the van for me and Christy, one of the things that I got excited about was like, it comes with a Nespresso machine. I did the tour of the van and I didn't see the Nespresso machine. I asked him, I was like, where's the Nespresso machine, oh, I gotta go get it from the house. He almost forgot to put it in there. I was like, thanks son. How big is it? It's like this big, how many inches is that? So like eight inches by four inches. And you just put the Nespresso pot, just a little bit. It didn't work, it didn't work on our trip. I'm like, this is not gonna happen again. Coffee is one of the key components of camping in van life so I'm gonna have one that is a travel size that I can take anywhere I need to go. Any Airbnb, any type of thing. So yeah, I got one. So you've prepared. Is that one of your four? No, it's not, yeah this is one of my four. It is not one of my four. Oh, it is one of your four. Well I mean, it's not, it's not one of my four no. Because when I searched I went back further and I thought we were just going for weird stuff. Well, I mean, it doesn't have to be weird. But literally, I haven't purchased much more. But I did purchase this, Fiskars 28 inch Bypass Lopper black/orange. What does that do? It cuts limbs. You know, my pomegranate tree got all out of hand last year and it had pomegranates all over it. And so I didn't wanna trim it. And I was like, now that there's not pomegranates on it, I won't feel guilty trimming her back. How many pomegranates did you eat? Not enough, that's why I wanted to trim it back before a lot of them grew this year and I felt guilty about not eating all the pomegranates. Well you can bring some to me. We're eating pomegranates. Yeah, I made a lot of pomegranate jam. You could be the pomegranate guy. That's of course a lie. It's not, you don't have to cook anything. You just pick them, put them in a bag and bring them to people. I can have a pomegranate pop-up. Yeah, and it's just pomegranates. Pomegranates it's eaten raw. I love a good pomegranate, but when there's that many. You have to give them away. Yeah, they just rotting on the tree. That's very sad. 'Cause yeah, that's why I got a Lopper. I'll bring you new succulent barbecue and you can pay me in pomegranate. This thing could effortlessly like lop off a pinky. Oh yeah, there's so much leverage in those things. A thumb, like it could take off a thumb easy. Yeah. Like I could lop off the end of your nose. Well, that would be very easy. In your sleep. You can do that with those scissors you bought. You take off half of the tip of my nose though half of it would be a 'cause it's thinning. I mean, I paid $26 for this thing and I've only used it that one time. There's a couple of things I might wanna lop and now I got something. I'm gonna rifle through a few. I got the Timber Ridge Zero Gravity Chair Oversized Recliner that was for trying to connect with aliens. We already talked about that. I had some beans on toast just for breakfast and I took a picture for Instagram and a bunch of people told me that I had the wrong kinda beans. And they were like, if you wanna do it the way the Brits do it, you need to get Heinz Baked Beans in the turquoise basically pack. So you bought that. So I bought that pack of six and while I was buying that next to it, it's that people also bought an airpod pro case that was the can of beans. So I bought that as well. You bought beans, and then you saw people also bought an iPod, what? Airpod pro case, for airpods. The ear things. That is a heinz baked beans can shape as a place to keep your airpods. Wow, talk about an upsell. Yeah. That one had to cost four times as much as the beans. No, it was like, it's rubber is like seven bucks. Huh, oh yeah, it just goes over the case. I don't know if I talked about this, I got a glow in the dark spill proof urinal for men. Screw cap plastic male urinal, portable urinal. Where do you keep that, by your bed? It basically is a jug with a glow on the dark top that you piss in so you don't have to well get out of your tent at night when you have to wake up and pee or to get up in the morning and you're super cold and you don't wanna get out of your tent, you just piss in this container. It's revolutionary, well, I'm taking it on the camping trip. You can't use it, but you can watch me. No, do you ever think about just inserting it before you went to sleep and then you wouldn't even have to wake up? It'd be like a giant plastic sleeping condom. No. Yeah, do you think about that? I didn't, two piece Pack Portable Bidet. That's just like what you, I know you got one of those. You actually have a nicer one. I've got a little squeeze one again that was, Yeah, I got the tushy one. Dint know what I was gonna run into out there. When I use the tushy one you can't use it but you can watch. A lot of people ask me questions about this 'cause my wife tweeted a picture of me earlier this year, or she basically just tweeted the picture of my tank top that I was wearing. It was the love tunnel nineties tank tops for men summer tease boys graphic novelty sleeveless athletic, tropical workout crew neck shirts fit tank tops, L which looks like this. The titles are just ridiculous. So it's a tank top the one I got was the lion face on it. Why did you get that? A lot of people worried about me and thought that this was a new fashion statement that I was trying to make. And the reality is, is I got this because I thought we were gonna do more of those sketch, those little Ticktocks with Terry, the stepdad, and I thought it would be funny if he always had a funny tank top on. And we never did it. And we've never done it again. I have that tank top and also have one with an American flag on it. Also I have one with a cat in space on it. I have all three of those. You should bring those into the office 'cause it could be used in a character sense. If you keep them at home, it means that you're grown attached to them. I found a good deal on some PUMA Men's Roma Basic fashion Sneakers, size 13. As you know, typically the low top white shoes that I wear all the time, are Puma Romas. Okay. And I was like, I like these so much. They're getting kinda old. I kinda wanna like the day I throw these out I wanna already have the pair like sitting in my closet. And I found a deal on them for like 40 bucks. So I was like, and they're still in the box, because I haven't completely worn out the other ones but I'm ready for them. So this is like I get this from my mom, my mom the way she organized our kitchen cabinets was as if it was a grocery store. So like, you'd finish one bottle of Penrose sausage and there would be another one behind it. It's interesting because I would think that you would not want the same thing again. Again, it's like, you're enticed by getting something new and getting something different. They're just so comfortable. I just like. It overrides you. I like the profile and they're so comfortable. I was like, I haven't found a better low tide. Except for like Allbirds, of course. Oh, yeah. They got a very comfortable low top. I wear those a lot as well. Can't wear them exclusively though. But I also got Reeboks Men's Royal Astrostorm Walking Shoe Have you seen my Reebok Walking shoes? No. Well, you ought to see me walk in them. I don't wanna see you walk in them. We were doing so much walking at the beginning of the pandemic and I was not happy with the way my feet were feeling. And I was like, what is a walking shoe? I've heard old people talk about these. I found them Reeboks apparently makes them. Gosh. Astrostorm. You know what else I got? What? This is a REC, this is like early, I mean, a recommendation. This purchase wasn't like a wreck with the W, the OXO Good Grips Any Angle Broom, Silver with a dustpan. I love this thing so much I made it a REC in fact, back in April I think. So I'm all the way back there. 'Cause that's a few things I bought. I bought this broom, still use it. I actually use this broom so much I broke it. And then I had it has a like a bolting mechanism that then will it'll swivel 'cause it's like any angle broom and like it'll click, click, click, click, click, and then you can like sweep under stuff. And I used it so much that clicker thing, the internal mechanism, I broke it. And instead of buying a new one, I disassembled it and put a nut and bolt in there and I fixed it. I made it stronger than it was originally. I'm still using it. Observation. Very nice, OXO is a nice brand for a broom. So far with the exception of the Nespresso machine. And maybe the TV. Okay yeah, the TV. We got a broom, got some loppers and I got some hair loppers. Everything that you get- And a wallet. You got of Amazon it's very utility. In fact, three out of four are tools, right? So it feels like, well, I mean, a lot of the things that I bought were based on something I was going to do, it definitely feels like I'm buying a lot of things that bring me joy and pleasure. And you're buying things that you think that there is a very specific use for, that you think you can justify. Easily justifiable, but the broom does bring me pleasure. I mean, I just use it to sweep. But do you really enjoy sweeping. I like, yeah, I like it. But you know, I mean, there's some deeply rooted things here. I just think that growing up there was this scarcity. Now I'm not saying you grew up rich or that you grew up, you weren't spoiled and you weren't spending money left and right. I know that's not how you were raised. But I think for me, there was this knowledge of scarcity, like, oh my gosh, it's like, I mean, we weren't poor but things were tight. And like, I had this heightened sense of that so it was like every single thing that I would purchase or ask for as a kid I just had this real need to justify it. Because I would feel like, you know, if I get this Gi Joe Mobile Command Center for Christmas, I mean, how much less money is that for us like, use with something else? My mom never talked to me about any of this stuff but it was just something that I internalized and interpreted my situation as I don't wanna be the reason that we go broke. And I think that, that's kinda stuck with me. And it's not fun. Well, I think that at this point and look what my mom used to tell me. But I could buy stuff now and enjoy it like this. My mom used to tell me, well I hope you make a lot of money when you grow up. Like that's what she would say to me all the time. Because the way that I would spend money as a kid, like again, my dad had a good job and we were well taken care of. I mean, still definitely very much in the middle-class. But the interesting thing was they didn't buy me a lot of things. But what they would do is they would give me money for Christmas or something like that. And then what I would do is I would immediately spend all of it, right. Yeah. I would say, okay, you gave me $50 for Christmas or whatever. All right, let's go to Brendel's. I'm gonna spend every bit of it. Like why wait? Yeah, I had a jar. So I wasn't a saver, I've had to be very disciplined about saving as an adult, but so that was my disposition already. But I do think, and again- It can I think simply just be a personality thing because when I look at my three kids, like Lincoln, is that way. Like he never has money. Like the moment he gets money, it's gone. And Lando will save up money. I had a jar and I would like meticulously roll up my cash and my coins in it. And I would say, I can buy this, but I don't know something else will come along. I'm just gonna save it till something else that like I really gotta get. And I would look at the jar and feel good you know sense of security. Security, yeah. Yeah, but Lincoln's definitely not that way. But Lily somewhere in the middle and Lando is more like me. So a lot of is personality based, 'cause I'm sure the circumstances. And I know I mean I'm sure there's something psychological because I do impulse buy things and I take comfort in opening something up. Like seeing a box, when I get home from work, seeing a box that was delivered from Amazon and seeing that it's got my name on it. 'Cause that means is for me, it's exhilarating. And sometimes I'm like, I don't even remember what I ordered. You know what I'm saying, it's like, and so I know that there's something potentially negative about that process as well. But I think that the overarching thing for me is neither of us make big purchases. Like if we're gonna make a big purchase like we're gonna do this thing on the house. And when I say big purchase like, I mean we don't buy expensive sports cars, we don't buy like boats or something. I'm not saying we would never buy a boat or something like that if the opportunity presented itself but we don't spend a lot, we don't buy big ticket items. In fact, sometimes we don't because we didn't like when we started our careers, when we were on Santa Campus Crusade well like, we were making very little money, like our early marriage both of us had the same salary. I mean, I'll just say what it was because I remember it, we raised $42,000 a year that was the salary. And in North Carolina, 15 years ago, $42,000 a year it's not a lot of money for a family with a couple of kids, right. Like you have to budget and you have to kinda think about what you're buying. And I think that we've taken that mentality as we've made more money, we've still maintained what, again we sometimes we have to ask our accountant like, can you tell us how we're doing with our money? And they're like, you guys are both very conservative because you don't spend a bunch of money all at once. Like yes, there's a bunch of items that's on this list but for me, I feel this freedom to spend 10, 20, $30 here and there on this kinda steady stream of pleasurable items for myself because I'm not dipping in and going out and buying like $100,000 sports car or something like that. I don't do that. So I feel like I'm not being irresponsible, but I honestly I get a lot of pleasure out of these things. Like when that giant wok shows up and I think about what I'm gonna do in it and the experiences that it will translate into. Like it brings me a lot of joy. And listen, it's a privilege to be able to buy the amount of stuff that I'm talking about. I understand that I have a lot of money relative to a lot of people. And so I can freely buy these smaller ticket items without really thinking about the overall impact. I'm in a privileged position. And I know a lot of people out there do not have the means to do that. But what I'm getting at is you do, right, if everything's 50, 50, you do have the means. I've loosened up some, I mean actually buying the television. And I was like you know what, once I actually clicked purchase, then I was like, I can't wait for this thing to show up. And you haven't felt guilty about it at all. No, so I think that's good. Yeah, it's not like every time I go in that room, I mean, I would come down in the mornings for the first couple of mornings and you know, I don't have to walk through that room to go make my coffee, but yeah, I would kinda go. Take a detour. I would take a detour and I go in the room and I'll just look at the television. I mean, it will be off, the screensaver wouldn't even be on. After an hour, I think that turns off. Yes, I would look at the blank black of television and I'd experience a little happiness and then I go make my coffee. Well, think about if you get had other things. If I had a walk. No, you have definitely changed a lot in that regard. I've still got like 10 things I gotta get through. I gotta get through my list, man. People wanted it. I'm done with my list. Darrell Lea Original Black Licorice, pack of two, best black licorice that I have found, I've tried a lot from Australia. You only got two, it's a pack of two, but there were many in the pack? Well, lots of little pieces in there. So soft, scrape, it's got a great rich flavor. Sensual massage oil with relaxing lavender, almond oil and jojoba for men and women. Well, that's okay, keep going. Let's just skip that one. Summit Mosquito Dunks, 20 Dunks. Mosquito dunks. This is a little doughnut that you can throw in standing water, and it will prevent mosquitoes from making eggs in there. This is when they were doing construction on the house and then they dug the pool out and it rained and there was just stagnant water. Had to dunk those mosquitoes, had to dunk all those mosquitoes. Did that work? Well, I mean, I didn't see any babies. Puriya Chest Rub feel instantly better when you rub this aromatic blend of peppermint, eucalyptus, tea tree and lavender on chest or under the nose. Okay, so vapor rub. Is a natural vapor rub. I use it in the morning before I do like my stretches and in my meditation because I have a deviated septum and it helps open things up. XJS Metal Compression Spring Silver Tone, 40 pieces. Another item along with this is the BUYGOO 120 piece Wood Square Blocks, one inch blank wooden cubes. This is an art project that Shepherd and I started and did not finish. Woodblocks? Shepherd and I had the idea to create a Fibonacci sequence sculpture which was, you can do the Fibonacci sequence and you can do it like a top-down view of the spiral and it's got the rectangular blocks that are the right proportions. And we were gonna do different colors and make like a full-size thing where all these little woodblocks are on springs. And so you can touch it and it'll shake. But they're all, it's the Fibonacci, me and shepherd are kinda like, we have a connection over the Fibonacci sequence. We like once tried to find one that was in a park somewhere and he's was fascinated by. I remember, yeah. So we painted all the blocks, but then we ran out of one thing and we had to stop. So the whole thing is like in a box, ready to be picked up at some point, probably when he's 30. Okay. Black calypso beans, OliveNation Cannellini Beans or Cannellini beans. Susie Q's Santa Maria Style Pinquito Beans or Pinquito Beans. That was three different beans. I'm tracking. I'm getting back to the beginning of quarantine, I stocked up on dry beans, didn't know what was gonna happen. Finally, the last two items, Work Sharp Knife & Tool Sharpener Ken Onion Edition If you need me to sharpen your knives, I have a knife sharpener. Ken Onion. I don't know if Ken onion is a man named Mr. Onion or it's the guy named Ken and this is the Onion Edition. I don't care though, it sharpens my knives. And finally, my first purchase of 2020, Cap Barbell Coated Hex Dumbbell with contoured chrome handle single 60 pounds, bought two of those. You bought weights. I already have the dial weight, Bowflex dial weight that gets you up to 52.5 pounds. I was like, dude, by the end of quarantine, I'm gonna be too strong for 52 and a half pounds in each arm, I gotta go to 60. How are you using those. You know, bench. You're using them. Yeah. Okay, good for you. Yeah, when you wanna go deep, yeah. Wow, what a journey, what a journey. You wanna here it, I don't even have an attic by the way. Yeah, well you do, we found a rat in it. Oh, I wouldn't call that an attic. But it's not an attic you can store things in. Yeah, I call that a rat space. Right. I bought a rat trap after that. I dint mentioned that. Did it catch anything? Yeah. It caught more rats? Yeah. How many? Two. Oh, you got the one. And then I bought some whole sealer that stuff that foams up and fills holes, no more rats. You got one of the rat traps where they stick their head up into it and it's a- Instant kill. Air compression bolt to their head. It's electric shock. So this is an episode full of RECs. Do you have another REC? No. It's basically like, take your pick from what I just went through. I gotta say some of my favorite things on the list, you know in terms of like one of the cheaper items that if you're into black licorice, A, you have good taste and B, I do recommend Darrell Lea. It is that soft Australian style licorice. And it comes with a little story on the back about how they discovered it, because there it was like an accident. And some of the best things that are ever discovered are because of an accident. That you know they were typically making this hard licorice and he left it out too long or did something wrong and it came soft and it turns out that that is the way to enjoy black licorice, Darrell Lea, man. Is that your REC? have something better. Yeah. Wow and the gear is not even over, you'll probably keep buying stuff. Oh, I got some stuff on the way. I didn't wanna talk about that. #earbiscuits. To watch more Ear Biscuits, click on the playlist on the right. To watch the previous episode of Ear Biscuits, click on the playlist to the left. And don't forget to click on the circular icon to subscribe. If you prefer to listen to this podcast, it's available on all your favorite podcast platforms. Thanks for being your mythical best. 