 Welcome to another episode by Engineering  today and we are back with three news for you.   Its hard to believe in 2020 that many  people of our planet do not have internet   facility at a low cost. So SpaceX will provide  internet connection at an affordable price for   all people through Starlink with an  easy setup, starting from Canada. SpaceX had applied for a license to the Canadian  Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission   in May. To get their “ Basic International  Telecommunication Services' license,   SpaceX had to face a number of hardships. But in  June Canadian citizens supported SpaceX for this   issue , above two thousand of Canadian  citizens gave their support for SpaceX. In September , Federation Of Northern Ontorio  Municipality's supported SpaceX to bring Starlink   internet service in Canada. FONOM says at  their Board of Directors meeting , “ The   Board adopted a resolution during a recent  meeting in Hearst , held both electronically   and in person , supporting Starlink a satellite  internet service that's being developed by SpaceX.   The resolution also caused on the Canadian  Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission   (CRTC) to permit and expand the company a “Basic  International Telecommunication Services’ license. “ FONOM beliefs that the Starlink program is our  best option.” Says Danny Whalen , the president   of FONOM . Before this meeting , couple of months  ago Canadian Municipal Counsellor Kenneth Flack   says in a letter , “ I encourage the Canadian  Radio-Television & Telecommunications Commission   to accelerate the acceptance of this  application for provisioning of services   such as this without delay, as it will also  provide the capability for our communities to deal   with and recover from this pandemic. The SpaceX  Starlink Internet Services project as a whole,   specifically benefits those most in  need, and the most disadvantaged.”   In first week of October , James Cumming  , the Minister of Innovation , Science   and Industry criticized the politicians  for delaying to give license to SpaceX.   He also said , “ We have heard plenty of big plans  from the Liberals over the past five years but   very little delivery and many unsatisfied internet  users . However a new entrant SpaceX , maybe able   to offer connectivity that rural Canadians  and their businesses have been desperately   needing they are not asking for a single cent  , just for their license to be approved.”    On the middle of October an official petition was  created and shared on social media by Canadian   citizens for the approval of SpaceX Starlink  License .They asked government authorities for   this. After that on October 15 , SpaceX received  their license from the CRTC . Their Secretary   General Claude Doucet says in an approval  letter to SpaceX , “ The commission received   2585 interventions regarding Space Exploration  Technologies Corporation BITS application.   After consideration of the comments  received , the commission has approved   the application and a BITS licence is  enclosed.” SpaceX has plans to serve   internet facility in Southern Canada and  Northern United States from end of this year. Let's quickly check some latest updates  regarding SpaceX partnership with Microsoft. Microsoft announced their partnership  with SpaceX on a Nuclear weapon Defence   system project for Pentagon. It was announced on  Tuesday. This project aims on developing a system   capable of detecting missile  launches anywhere in the world.   It will also help in raising early alarm to warn  people and to help in interception of missile. Microsoft described the working of the system  in a blog post, “ SpaceX recently won a contract   with the space development agency to build new  satellites separate from the Starlink system   in support of a Space Tracking Layer  defense’s system capable of detecting and   tracking ballistic, cruise , and hypersonic  missiles .” Ballistic missiles capable of   carrying nuclear warheads emits infrared  waves from superheated engine exhaust.   Which can be detected by Pentagon project. Microsoft wrote , “ The two companies  also planned to further connect Starlink   with Microsoft’s global network including Azure  edge devices integrating SpaceX ground stations   with Azure networking capabilities. The  collaboration also includes connecting   Starlink's high speed low latency satellite  broadband with Azure's new Modular Datacenter.” Reuters reported that company will use  it Starlink satellite factory in Redmond   to build four experimental satellites equipped  with infrared sensors . These satellites will   be used to detect missile launches around the  planet. This will help to reach the goal of Space   Tracking Layer Network of defense. The project  worth $149 million U.S. dollars. Microsoft’s all   new devices would be linked through Starlink  and SpaceX is planning to launch about forty   two thousand satellites and linked them with  lasers to provide faster network connectivity.   Microsoft also said that they have plans to  make modular datacenters and mobile platforms   through which cloud computing systems can  be spread to every corner of the world.    SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell said , “ We will   be delivering to the government a number  of satellites that host a capability   to protect against Ballistic weapons and we were  really proud to have Microsoft on our team there.” Let's now discuss a news  regarding China's moon mission. At last Sequel of Moon mission plans of China got  revealed. In our planet major countries linked   with space research and also planning to send  their Moon missions within a short course of time.   China proposed to other nations that  their all Chang’e missions together   would form the part of planned  international Lunar Research Station. China has already operating Chang’e 4 on the far  side of Moon to collect samples. They are also   planning to launch another spacecraft to Moon,  Chang’e 6, which is scheduled to be sent either   in 2023 or 2024 having two goals of landing  at south pole of Moon and studying the region.   Chang’e7 will be sent around 2024, whereas  Chang’e 6 will work as a backup for Chang’e 5.   If Chang’e 5 mission is successful then it  will be resent to the South Pole of Moon . China National Space Administration give many  institutes the responsibility to develop payloads   for five spacecraft in Chang'e 7 mission.  It was given by CNSA's Lunar Exploration   and Space Engineering Centre. A special Long  March 5 rocket is required to launch the 8200   kg mission consisting of an Orbiter ,  A relay satellite , a lander , a rover   and a mini flying craft. They will also  send a high resolution stereo mapping camera   and , wide band spectrum mineral imager , Gamma  ray spectrometer , Synthetic aperture radar,   magnetometer. Using all of these systems the  Chang’e 7 will easily get information about   Moon’s surface. The rover will carry a lunar  penetrating radar , a magnetometer , a panaromic   camera , a Raman's spectrometer and a mini  flying craft will carry a Water Molecule analyzer   to take measurements in the far region of South  pole in Moon. If they find water in Moon , then   future crewed missions would be easy. The  relay satellite will carry a very long Baseline   Interferometry (VLBI) System for Earth to  Moon VLBI measurements. It will help in   the detailed radio astronomy observations .   The lander will have landing and topography   cameras and other instruments to measure the  heat flow through the Moon soil . The lander   will also have an extreme ultraviolet camera , a  seismograph and a thermometer. Another instrument   will nuetral atoms in Earth’s magnetosphere  which extends beyond the orbit of Moon. After completing Chang'e 7  missions Chang'e 8 is planned.   That mission will include test technology  for using local resources and manufacturing   with 3D printing, according  to Chinese press statements. 