 To get highly competitive products, customers are increasingly demanding for higher-quality components. To understand and meet these needs, a collaboration is required that is driven by accurate information and process. Unless all of your team members are aligned with the latest technical document, they can face production failures. This will cause a colossal waste of time and money spent on reworking and disused stock. Meanwhile, customers and governments are also demanding more controls through quality audit, increased environmental safety levels, and stricter regulations. To come up to these raised standards, many people exert a great deal of effort and time in collecting data and taking appropriate actions. PLM systems are the number one choice for many companies trying to solve their problems. However, small to medium sized companies hesitate to adopt PLM system since it is extremely costly. Even if they adopt PLM system, its feature-laden applications created for large companies are often too complicated for simpler operations. 'Samsung Nexplant PLM Cloud' is a complete PLM system that is affordable and at the same time, meets the needs of efficient collaboration and enhanced quality. Especially, functions required for development such as drawings/document management, project management, 'Bom', and 'CAD viewer' will give small to medium companies a competitive edge. 'Nexplant PLM Cloud’ ensures seamless collaboration for development by sharing technical document. From a single source of technical data extracted from CAD drawing, team members from design, production, quality and sales can communicate with complete accuracy. Structure data are extracted to easily build the ‘Bill of Materials’ required for production. Our web-based '3D CAD viewer' doesn’t require any installation, and tracks down drawings anytime, anywhere. The systematic management of component data makes components highly reusable. Such technical data are centrally managed in our 'Nexplant PLM Cloud’ and accumulate as your company’s knowledge asset. Now, save your time and money on searching the right information, making revisions and doing reworks. 'Nexplant PLM Cloud ' provides any standardized product development system. It configures your business tasks based on a ‘standard process’ which conforms to your client’s quality guideline. You can easily manage the overall schedule and current progress, and collect your deliverables without omission. The simple and easy-to-use user interface enables intuitive system transaction throughout the whole process. Don’t worry about security. Saved documents are safely stored on a server with the same security level as Samsung internal systems. And since the documents are encrypted by files, they cannot be accessed by any unauthorized user. 'Nexplant PLM Cloud’ uses a monthly recurring charge realizing an affordable PLM. A cloud service, ready for immediate use without incurring high upfront investment and maintenance costs. 'Nexplant PLM Cloud’ is the smart answer to your company’s struggle with the entire range of product development challenges. Our dedicated development and operations teams deliver fast and reliable technical support. Samsung SDS has been working as a PLM specialist across a wide range of manufacturing industries such as electronics, automobile, semiconductor, shipbuilding, medical devices, and materials. until now, PLM has only been realistic for large businesses. With 'Samsung Nexplant PLM Cloud’, PLM is now well within reach for small to medium businesses. Make your own success stories by driving innovation in your product design and development. 