 (techy music) Hi, I'm Doug. I'm a writer at Microsoft. Like many of you, I'm using video more and more as I'm working from home. I've used webcams for a long time, I have some no cost advice and low cost alternatives that may help you have a better experience. And one of them maybe scrounge around the house and maybe find one of these things, the webcam. I mean, this one's boy, 10 years old, but there's some advantages this webcam has over things like the camera that's on your laptop. So, one advantage I have with a webcam right away is I can place it anywhere, I have it actually hooked on my monitor here. There's too much feeling sometimes you have to be straight, center and never look away from the camera 'cause I don't know you're some sort of news broadcaster and that's not reality, it's not authentic. So, I keep it at an angle, so when I'm working on the computer here, I'm talking to somebody I can look up occasionally and you're still listening to me, even though I'm not looking at you directly all the time. So that's a more natural thing, you even lean in when you wanna make an emphasis and things like that. A lot of these webcams also have a mount for a tripod. Now most people probably don't want to do that, but if you're doing a lot of presenting, to be able to move the camera from time to time, it's a really great advantage. It's one of things you can't do with the camera that's on your laptop. Let's switch over there and let's talk about that a little bit. So, webcams are better and better in laptops. This is a newer Surface Book, so it's a pretty good picture. It's pretty clear, and it's got good coloring. Lot of laptops though, older ones are gonna have blurrier pictures and even that webcam. But there's a couple things I really don't like about dealing with this type of laptop because I'm one, look at the placement I'm towering over you I don't think it's a really great way for communication. I use my hands a lot and they're pretty distracting 'cause they're kinda in the frame at all times. A couple of things my neck and my chin are all lit up, looks really great. And also webcams show off the least ornate things in most buildings and offices and homes, which is your ceiling, you get lights up there, ceiling tiles, kinda looks kind of silly. But, if this is the only camera you have and you're presenting, well, there's one thing you should do, which is raise up the computer, I mean, get some board games and then put the computer on top, if you're not working, if you're working, it's gonna be kind of tough to work like this. But, to raise it up to be at eye level is important 'cause that's for a great way for communication is instead of towering over, looking up at somebody to be directly eye level, is a better way and looks a little better on camera. So, let's go ahead and switch back. And let's talk a little bit about your background here. You want a neutral background of some sort. I mean, if it's really cluttered, you may not pop out of the screen as much. If there's something distracting, like there's sometimes looks like maybe a plant is coming out of your head or something like that, you just want to kind of move it if you can. Also if you have any bright lights back there, turn them off or a window you wanna shutter it. I mean these cameras aren't that sophisticated, so if they sense a whole bunch of light, they're gonna darken other things like darken your face. So if you can get a light in front of you or a window, great. Now I have a window in front of me, but I also use a light, because well, let me show you. (light switch flicks off) If I don't have a light, I mean the camera kind of compensates, but I start getting this glow in my face, and that's the computer screen, so, you kinda look a little sickly. So, I like having a light, (light switch flicks on) and even though I have to deal with some shadow and some reflection in my glasses, I think I look a little healthier on screen and you will too. Now sound is more important than picture for a lot of things. And again, laptops, a lot of the older ones have these little small microphones. And you can augment that, you can get better microphones for example, this webcam, has a bigger microphone that's right built into the camera, or you can have something that's again lying around, if you have a nice Bluetooth speaker, most of them are built for sound, they're built for taking your phone calls, so just don't listen to music while you work, you can use this as a device when you're talking online. Same thing with Bluetooth headphones. These surface headphones have a microphone built in because it's built to be on your head all day if you want to take your phone calls and all that. So again, if you're gonna listen on headphones, might as well use the microphone, if you have that in your Bluetooth headphones or scrounge around the house, you probably have, maybe have something like this, right? These have been around for years. No frills, these wired headphones, but they work. A couple things I like about this, this one is, one, the microphone can go on either side of your face, and I usually pick, the side that's away from the camera some of these mics and get big and they can block your face, so I put it over here and also best is this has a physical mute button. As you know, muting yourself when you're not talking is really important in a conference. So, I just keep my finger on the mute button and turn it on-off that way, that way I'm not you know hunting for the keyboard shortcut or tapping something on screen. So, better sound, better light, better angle, makes it better for when you're doing video conferencing. Do you have any tips that you've learned about video conferencing? Love to see them in the notes below. And if you know anyone that would benefit from this video, please share it with them. Until next time for Simply Windows, bye. (techy music) 