 Hello dear BIKE readers, whether on an Alpine crossing, when riding loops or looking for new trails: Those who want to navigate completely relaxed and without getting lost, needs a GPS device. But the latest generation of mob computers can do much more than just navigate and track. They are small, diversely linked and control the workout. We tested six compact GPS devices with a smartphone connection. And the Garmin Edge 830 is best of test, and now I want to show you the Edge 830 in this video. The 830 is the latest version of the popular Edge series. With 80 grams it weighs less  than a bar of chocolate, is robust and comes with a pre-installed OSM map. The Garmin Europe map shows a clear picture and convinces when following tracks. A fast processor helps with zooming on the map and calculating routes. The computer can be controlled  via the touchscreen display, that works also well when it's raining or with gloves. The navigation through the menu is in comparison to older models much easier and to understand pretty quickly. In terms of connectivity the Edge 830 is exemplary: Via ANT + you can connect various sensors such as speed or heart rate monitors. The connection with the smartphone works with the Bluetooth interface. So you can upload recorded tracks to the Connect app, view messages on the device or send an emergency message. The Edge 830 also has WiFi on board. Despite all wireless connections you can still use a USB cable to drag and drop GPS tracks. To be able to use all functions properly, you need the Garmin Connect app, in which you can find your way around relatively quickly. The additional iQ Apps offer added value, such as Strava, Trailforks or Komoot. For example, you can easily put your planned routes from Komoot onto the Edge. The Edge masters classic navigation 830 confident. But especially the new, unique training and tracking features make the Garmin very special. Four new functions are most interesting for mountain bikers. In addition to the trail difficulty - the so-called Grit value - and a Flow index, the Edge also records jumps. So you can look at home how high and far you jumped. A real added value for touring riders is the "ClimbPro" function, which shows the climbs of a route with a detailed altitude profile and prepares the rider what's coming. The Edge also has a nice function for lazy bikers, that is called Round Trip Routing. You simply choose the targeted kilometers and the cardinal direction and the Edge calculates three Route options for you. For road cycling, this works very well. For mtb tours we were a bit disappointed because of the the low trail and off-road share. The battery life is around 18  hours, which is not bombastic, but is enough for 2-3 long days in the saddle – with an economical setting. The price for the new Edge 830 is 399 Euros. For 100 Euros less there's the identical Edge 530, it's the little brother from the Edge 830 with the same functions. The only difference: Instead of using a touchscreen,  it is controlled with buttons. In our comparison test of six GPS devices the Edge 830 did the balancing act between training computer and navigation device best. We were also thrilled with the innovative functions. 