 We've been interviewing top economists and financial advisers about the outlook for the economy and the stock market. Today, we're speaking with Nobel laureate Paul Krugman. Professor, thank you so much for joining us today. Do you think that the US and policymakers, both at the federal, state and local levels have reopened the economy too soon at the risk of health and longer term damage? I don't think it's even seriously arguable that we reopen too soon. We did not have the virus under control and we also reopened stupidly, I mean without requiring face masks, without even taking the cheap, easy precautions. And so here we are. Do you think that there will be longer term damage because of that response, or will it take the economy longer to recover? I've actually been kind of an optimist, kind of almost reluctantly, is not my temperament. But this is not like the last crisis a dozen years ago when we had fundamental problems with the economy and it took years to work out of them. At this point you know, there's lots of stuff that's wrong, but nothing that is like nothing like the overhang of consumer debt that we had in 2008. If we could get the virus under control, we're pretty well set for a very fast recovery. We have seen better than expected unemployment numbers over the past couple of months. Do you think those job that will continue to be the case going forward? Those job gains in May and June were a blip. Unfortunately, when we say the job, the unemployment rate in June, well, we actually mean it turns out what's it's a survey that looks at where people are in the second week of June. So it's already very old news. We'll look back on May and June as the as the years of a false hope. I think not the months of false hope. Where do you stand on the debate about when and how we should reopen schools? Reopening schools is a hard one because there's lots of things have turned out to be doable remotely. I'm hoping for a lot fewer long distance flights to go stare at somebodies PowerPoint. But education is not one of those things. Education really, particularly for younger and less advantaged students. The classroom is really, really important. You just cannot expect 11 year olds from disadvantaged families to do remote learning effectively. So on the one hand, you really, really don't want to not have the schools open. On the other hand, schools are petri dishes. Anyone who has children or knows people have children knows that school that that when the kids are in school, you get sick a lot more. And to do that now, conventional education now is just asking for disaster. So we're going to be looking at some kinds of awkward compromise attempts to get restore some in-person schooling if we can. But now it's not clear we can do that. So there is no good answer. No, we we backed ourselves into a situation where there is no good answer. And there couldn't be longer term effects of that. It sounds like, from what you're saying. There's two things about that, about the young. One is that if someone is still in junior high or elementary school, you disrupt his or her education. You're never going to really make up for that. And then the other thing is, graduates who enter a bad labor market. We actually know about that from a number of studies, suffer permanent damage to their career prospects. And so by not getting this thing under control and giving ourselves probably a year of depressed labor markets, we've actually done immense damage to the class of 2020. Will there be longer term changes in the workforce, though or in the types of jobs that kind of fuel the economy when we think about the future? Do you think that this will have a longer term effect on the workforce? I've been using the metaphor in international trade, which is my home field, we talk about infant industry protection. You get a new industry started. Sometimes countries have done it by forcing self-sufficiency. And then sometimes once they even when the borders are thrown open again, you can the industry has learned to do its job. And it persists and we basically had infant industry protection for distance work in this crisis. And I do believe some of it will stick. We're seeing a big difference between what's happening in the stock market and the economy. What explains that to you? So stocks are attractive and some to some degree, just because if you're getting 0.6 percent on on your 10 year treasuries, maybe you should buy stocks instead. And so there that's a rational explanation. There's a second point, which my friend Barry Ritholtz just pointed out, which is that if you look at the stocks, they've been leading the charge. They tend to be the big tech companies. And those tech companies are mostly in some cases, or at least largely not actually U.S. businesses. They derive half or more their revenue in several cases from overseas sales. And so to some extent, what's happening is that they are riding on the fact that the rest of the world is doing a better job of dealing with this than we are. So they're riding on the prospects of economic recovery in Asia and Europe, even as the U.S. completely mucks things up. The third thing is, I think their worker, it's very hard to escape the sense that there's a mania. Now that this is a foul ball market, that there are people who saw stocks go way up between late March and and now where the first part of that was ,well, we had a we had the incipient financial crisis. Credit markets froze up for a couple of weeks there. The Fed stepped in and unfroze them, stocks, which had plunged, came roaring back, and then people said, oh, stocks are good and they piled in and becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy for a while. So there's clearly you look at the way that people have piled into the stocks of bankrupt companies like Hertz. And it there's clearly something, a bit of mania going on and the relative importance of those three. Who knows? I, with each passing day as the the news about the economy gets worse and stocks keep rising, I become more convinced that there's something crazy going on. But we don't really know that yet. Are there potential bubbles that you see when you when you look at companies like Hertz that are trading so radically or tech stocks? There are almost surely multiple bubbles out there. Maybe the whole thing is maybe that the last 15 percent or whatever on the S&P 500 is a bubble because it's a I don't know that. But it seems plausible because in a bubble. As Robert Shiller famously pointed out, a bubble is a natural Ponzi scheme. People buy in. They make money because the next wave of people buys in. It's everyone for everyone it's great until you finally run out of suckers. And this has that feel to it definitely. How much has the Fed stimulus and buying up of all of these assets, including corporate bonds, and bond ETF's contributed to some of this bubble like behavior that the stock market? I am not I don't think the Fed has really driven up valuations so much as it has. It's avoided a plunge in valuations. There was a there was a plunge because financial markets were freezing up in March. And that was it was it was the fall of Lehman all over again. And the Fed, they poured a lot of money in to lubricate the markets, and that did help stocks a lot. Now, whether the subsequent rise has much to do, I don't think so. I mean, if you look at the amount of money, it looks awesome but you look at spreads. It's not as if risk spreads are unusually low. It's just that they're not unusually high. And that's because despite the stress, the Fed has avoided that. I don't see what else the Fed could have done that could not have stood by and allowed a financial crisis on top of the viral crisis. So this is what had to happen. And if there's some mania in the markets, well, that's what happens From what you're saying, it sounds like the stock market is not exactly a correct representation of the economy right now then. Stock market has never been a good indicator of what's happening to the market, the economy at large. And now in particular, it's a really poor indicator. I mean, partly because it never is. There's always the link between stocks and other things, like jobs is always weak. And also, I have the sense that investors have still not taken on board just how bad the Covid-19 news is. You've talked about this idea of a liquidity trap where, you know, monetary policy may be less effective because consumers, businesses aren't spending. Are we in that situation right now? We are on the edge of one I mean strictly speaking, a liquidity trap is basically the same as saying interest rates are at zero and can't be cut anymore, which is true. Right now we're on short term rates. We are at at the zero lower bound, which isn't exactly a bound. You can get a little bit below that, but probably not a good idea to do that. And so we're in that situation now. I don't think that's what the problem with the economy is right now. Even before the virus, we were very close to that point. We were we had low unemployment, but we had very little room for maneuver. So, I mean, what I was saying just before all of this happened was that I didn't know where the next shock was going to come from, but that the economy didn't have shock absorbers anymore because there was no room to cut interest rates significantly. Well, we're still in that situation. So the sort of if there's an act two after the virus, then it may well be, oh, we're back in the jargon phrase, a secular stagnation. We're back in a situation where the economy's normal, that the economy bias is towards being depressed because we don't have the tools to restart it when things go wrong. So what role does fiscal policy play then in helping us get out of that? Fundamentally, the amount that businesses want to invest seems to be less than the amount that people want to save. That's another way of looking at what a liquidity trap is all about. And what can you do about that? Well, if somebody would invent the railroad or something that demands a lot of business investment, that would be great. But barring that, there's a big role for the government to do useful stuff in a way that also sustains spending. So a really big infrastructure program is with interest rates so low, with infrastructure clearly creaking is a huge ought to be a no brainer right now. It's cheap, it's needed, and it helps keep us away from liquidity traps. What about, the direct stimulus, as in more stimulus checks or a universal basic income, where do you come down on that? I'm actually negative on both of those. And it's stimulus checks is kind of a current administration idea. The universal basic income tends to be a kind of progressive bill that depends on which progressives you talk to. But I think we've just seen an object lesson in what's wrong with that. We had roughly one in five workers suddenly found themselves unable to work. Their livelihoods cut out from under them because of the virus. And we responded, as we should have, with enhanced unemployment benefits that for many workers actually was more than they were making. But in any case, basically compensated for the loss in wage and salary income for those people. That was a good policy. Suppose we had tried to do it through, we didn't have a stimulus check, which was a nice windfall for people who had not lost their jobs and was trivial for those who had. 1200 dollars is even for a low paid worker, doesn't make up for very many weeks of lost work, whereas 600 dollars a week extra in unemployment benefits does make up for it. So the stimulus checks were actually not all that helpful. And a UBI where everybody got income. No questions asked. Would also not be all that helpful unless it was so huge as to be completely unaffordable. So what we've actually seen is the this very strong case for extreme, for targeted benefits, for contingent benefits, maybe with as little paperwork as possible. What about the concerns about the debt and how much this fiscal stimulus and monetary stimulus is increasing public debt? Interest rates remain low. There's no sign that the markets are disturbed. The arithmetic of debt is really encouraging because interest rates are well below the economy's normal growth rate, which means that you don't that increased debt really doesn't require that you make any special sacrifices to pay it down. And historically advanced countries, Britain came out of World War 2 with debt that was 250 percent of GDP. Nothing bad happened. So there really is no, we're not anything like at a crisis point. And at this point, with everything else going on, I think the great danger is that we spend too little, not too much. 