 Hi my name is Amanda Kautzer and this is the GEAR enterprise virtual presentation for the Spring 2020 Expo. The gear enterprise has three projects which are a sit ski, a cooling aid, and an avalanche beacon. First project we are going to talk about was my team, made of Mary, Joseph and Mark, and this is the sit ski project. The problem with the current sit ski design is the ability to stop, slow, turn and turn safely. So the first concept we came up with for our prototyping and design uses the idea of a long board truck. As you can see in the video this allows for two sets of skis to turn independently, creating an arc. And during testing this turning arc did form between the skis, but the back side slid out before initiating the turn. To fix this we implemented fins in the bottom of the ski, and this did help the back skis from sliding out but they caused a lot of resistance. So after that we tried cutting groves in the bottom of the ski, and these did help prevent the back side from sliding out but they provided a little too much resistance. So moving forward with this design we'd like to try using newer skis with a faster base that also using fewer groves to hopefully slow the turning ability with faster skis. The second concept we came up with was to have a parallelogram frame. The idea behind this was the user leans into the turn, both skis will still maintain contact with the ground and be on edge allowing for more stability while turning. The work so far with this design is that we've created a 3D model and uploaded it into motion view where we have been working to see how the frame behaves as the user leans. We have also 3D printed a scaled down model of this design. Prior to the quarantine I was able to work with the bio-mechanics department for one of the classes I'm in and collect some data on how the center of mass moves when a sit skier leans back and forth. And thats pictured in the graph in the middle of the screen. And this data allowed us to put real accurate information into the motion view model Mark was just talking about. In our third concept idea we decided to use an alpine brake as a lever to hopefully improve the turning ability as well as the ability to slow down. After testing we saw that the skis did slow down quite a bit, however turning was not improved. Moving forward our intentions are to get a furnished working prototype as well as to build a full size parallelogram prototype. Continue to adapt the sit ski, and improve the seat. Hello! We are the avalanche beacon team. Jared Talsma and our team leader Justin Mentink are our two electrical engineers and I am Adam Brewer, mechanical engineer. National Geographic reports that each year around the globe, there are over 150 deaths caused by avalanches. Our goal with this team is to create a low cost commercially available beacon that will help decrease the cost of both training and equipment needed. Currently, the beacons available to the consumers are transmitting and receiving beacons to help find people and transmit the location of people if they are stuck in an avalanche. Our goal is to create a transmit only beacon that will be used specifically for training. This will help increase the simplicity of the beacon itself and lower the cost from the current $200 - $400 price point for a beacon hopefully down to under $50. To do this we must meet the industry standards of a beacon that can transmit at 457kHz plus or minus 80Hz and has a 10% duty cycle and up to a 50m range. The first prototype is a prototype that was begun in previous semesters. With this prototype there was very little documentation provided. And due to this lack of documentation, we were unable to determine what parts were used or why they were selected. In addition, we could not recreate the results that were found in the documents that we did have. Throughout the testing, however we were able to determine the prototype needed a function generator to work as intended. We decided to scrap this plan and explore other options which would be cheaper than adding a function generator. After scrapping the idea from prototype one, we did a complete circuit redesign for prototype two. This began with deciding to use an LM555 timer as the main component instead of an operational amplifier to regulate the duty cycle of the circuit. Once the schematic was finished, a PCB board of the circuit was created in Eagle software. While this was going on, the case for the beacon was also being made. An initial prototype was made, and then revised to accommodate for a battery compartment and permanent mounting of the completed PCB. This slide shows the prototype for the avalanche beacon case. This case has two clips on either side that allow it to open and close very easily. This will house the circuit board and antenna for the beacon. Once we figure out what our power source will be, we will need to add a compartment for the battery. We will also be using plastic screws to fasten the circuit board down to make sure it does not wiggle at all when the beacon is being moved around. We have to use plastic screws, so it does not interfere with any of the transmitting signal. Moving forward we would like to continue brainstorming concepts to add make the training beacon more user friendly. Some ideas we had have been adding a dye sack or auditory effects to the training beacon to make it easier for beginners to find the beacon. Also, we would like to finish creating our testing documentation and complete the final testing of the working beacon next fall. Finally, we would like to set up a test using our training beacon on a simulated training course and allow individuals to attempt to find our beacon. Hello this is the cooling aid project. Our sponsor is the Air Force Research Laboratory. Our team leader is Cora Jarman, that’s me. And my teammates are Morgan Bialek, Carson Deeds, and Joseph Van Linn. The problem we were tasked with solving this semester was that maintenance personnel wear personal protective equipment that heightens their risk of heat stress. We were tasked with creating a cooling aid within the following constraints. It should be wearable with a full range of motion. Effective for up to 6 hours of continuous us. Have negligible risk to foreign object debris. Foreign object debris can cause loss of life in the worst case scenario. And that the prototype be free from odor. With these initial constraints we came up with 3 designs, 2 of them active and one passive focusing on humidity. We ultimately went with the passive system focusing on humidity and that is shown in the bottom right hand corner. In the center of that diagram is a velcro pouch which includes molecular sieves within it to absorb the moisture in the air. We like this design and further went with it because it has low risk to foreign object debris. It’s easy to work on due to its simplicity. It does not inhibit user motion as it is just a waist band around the belt. It can last throughout the entirety of the shift. And due to the molecular sieve packets being interchangeable, it is low risk to odor. After selecting this passive system we obtained various fabrics and sewing equipment to construct our prototypes. These prototypes were made with waistbands and pockets to store the desiccants. Following the construction of some prototypes we started testing and chose a sauna on campus to replicate the 100 plus degree environment and we suited up in the standard issue clothing of tyvek suits, rubber gloves and a respirator in addition to our prototype and spent time in the sauna. After testing for a few weeks our overall trends and data indicated that our prototypes did actually help in reducing the sensation of heat experienced by the subject. In conclusion our testing results are preliminary and require further validation but they support the use of these prototypes and indicate that using proper materials for the pouch and molecular sieve can result in reduced risk of heat stress for air craft maintainers. Four new prototypes were constructed and delivered to the project sponsor so further field testing and assessment can be completed in the future. This testing might look more into the materials for the pouch, materials for the desiccant, the cost of use, the costs of replacing, and the impacts of potentially reusing the materials in the future. And that has been our project this year. Thanks for listening. Hope you found GEAR enterprise interesting. And if you have any questions about these projects or joining, or anything related to GEAR, shoot an email to one of our project leaders listed below and thanks again for listening. 