 Nature has provided us with endless riches. For centuries, man has explored the depths of the Earth, constantly making new discoveries. That was how a unique natural mineral, called brucite, was discovered. Among industrial minerals, brucite ranks first in terms of magnesium content. Since 2002, we have been discovering the potential and versatility of brucite for the world. It all starts with ore mining. This is at the Kuldur deposit mine, worlds largest brucite mine. The deposit is mined by the ecologically safe quarrying method, Yes, we’re one of those who are already working on the future today. Savkinskoye Savkinsky deposit is our new brucite deposit. It is the world's largest in terms of proven reserves! To monitor product quality at each stage, we have adopted a comprehensive supply chain model – starting from the mine all the way to the end- user consumer Brucite has so many industrial uses applications. Ecopiren. An effective mineral flame retardant and smoke absorber for polymer compositions. MagPro. A necessary ingredient for manufacture of rubber products and composite materials. MagTreat. A new-generation reagent for cleaning water and industrial gases from harmful impurities both on- and off-shore AgroMag is an important source of magnesium in chemical mineral fertilizers, animal feed and premixes. FluMag. Enhances durability of the lining of steelmaking units. BleachMAGag. Protects cellulose and fibers during in the mechanical and chemical pulp bleaching process. MagAdd. A universal base for manufacture the production of magnesium-containing products. Brucite products are used to address global challenges, such as: human security safety agricultural development environmental protection. The future world needs brucite. And we are focused on maintaining our leadership in the supply of high-grade, eco-friendly raw materials. That is why we are constantly increasing our production and reserves. We're boldly stepping over the bounds breaking boundaries and discovering new areas where brucite can be used. We're giving a big boost to the development of novel and safe industrial processes. From geology to innovation. Brucite+ 