 For the digital drawing tools like pen display Even though they're so good, they come with a high price. It's over budget for many people. So, we've got a choice called "pen tablet" which is a lot cheaper. However, some function like lining is more difficult. Luckily, most drawing software like the Clip Studio Paint provides a feature that can help us a lot. That's why! I'm going to share the techniques for lining with a pen tablet in Clip Studio Paint. Today's pen tablet is sponsored by XP-PEN. This model is G960S PLUS. It comes with a medium-size, around 9x6 inches. The pen doesn't need a battery. There are shortcuts at the pen body and also the eraser at the bottom. One of the special features is it can be connected with an Android phone. If you're interested, find more details in the link at the description box. This is my final sketch. Let's start by setting it to be a draft layer. Choose the 'pencil icon' here. Then name the layer. The black line is difficult to look in the lining process. I'll change it to the blue line by press Cmd + B ( Ctrl + B ). Now, decrease the opacity. The BG will go transparent. Let's fill white color at the bottom for clearer vision. This sketch has a difficult part for the pen tablet around the curve of the hair. We'll need a lot of undoing. So, I'll use the helping tool in Clip Studio Paint. First, create the vector layer. At the icon here, they're for creating new layer. Choose the second one 'New vector layer' You'll see the cube icon over the layer name. Working on the vector layer lets you adjust the line arts freely. To use the curve tool, dragging a line from the point you want to begin. When you release, you can adjust it a little bit. Press the pen 1 time The line will appear. If you want to continue the long line, go to Tool property window Check 'Vector magnet' box I set it to the maximum. I may start from this point and reach to the previous line. When the new line is close to others, it will be attached automatically. The curve tool can adjust the point of the line to be sharp or dull. Go to tool property for this line The start is sharpened in where we begin. Use the slider for a sharper line After working for a while, The lines are messing. You can erase some part easily by Vector eraser. It's under the sub tool of the eraser tool. Just touching the area you want, it will generate to delete the unnecessary line. Another interesting tool is the Continuous curve. This curve will attach continually Suitable for a curly part like on the character face. Just click along with the draft. They will be smoothened automatically. Once you finish, press Enter. In case that you use G-pen and get unstable line. Go to adjust more 'Stabilization' So, it will give a more weighting feeling and stable line. There are a lot of tools under the 'Correct line' My favorite is 'Pinch vector line' Use to slightly move the line position You can adjust the effect range and pinch level here. You can fix the start and end points Go to this part. Choose 'fix both part' and just pinch the middle area. Bend it to the right spot. 'Correct line width' is for making the line thicker or thinner. For a thinner line, choose narrow And paint on the specific area. It will get slimmer as the setting. Normally, I prefer to finish the outline with the thick line first. Then I'll use a smaller brush on inner details. They'll be in separated layer So, the gap when you fill in the color will be decreased. It won't be interrupted by detail lines. For the details part, I use the small size brush of the curve tool and G-pen. If you're interested in the XP-PEN pen tablet in this video, let's check out at the link in the description. You can support my channel on Gumroad. The link for this video work also in the description box. That's it for today. Thank you so much. 