 Good evening everyone. Thanks  for joining UCLA Samueli's new   Master of Engineering information webinar. Before we start I just want to make sure that you   know we are recording this webinar  for those who could not join us. To start off the program, we would like to  make sure that you know you can use the Q&A   function to submit your questions. We'll  try to get to them during the Q&A session   at the end of the program and we can always  follow up if your question is not addressed. To start off the program I'd like to  introduce myself I'm Christine Lee.   I'm the Executive Director of Communications  of UCLA Samueli School of Engineering. I'd like to introduce   Associate Dean Jenn-Ming Yang who is the  faculty director of this new program,   who is also in charge of our international  initiative and online programs. Dean Yang… Thank you, Christine. I'd like  to welcome you to this webinar.   We are very honored to have Dean Jayathi Murthy  and several faculty area directors to join   the webinar. Before I start, it's my honor to  introduce Dean Jayathi Murthy to say a few words. Well hello everyone. I'm absolutely delighted to  welcome you to this webinar. This informational   webinar. We're going to be telling you a bit about  our exciting new Master of Engineering program. This program is really quite unique. It's  unique because its focus is on developing   technical mastery in new and exciting  areas, but also to develop business and   technology management skills side-by-side,  as well as working on real world projects. So we think this combination is really unique  and I know there's a lot of interest in it. Now these technology concentrations are in areas  such as data science, translational medicine,   green energy technologies, all of which are  cutting edge areas that should be of deep   interest to both our students and to industry. And  speaking of industry the program has the blessings   of all our industry partners, and of course comes  with UCLA Samueli's high academic standards. And so welcome again. I hope you find  today's webinar really useful. We're all here   to answer your questions, so thank you  for attending. Jenn-Ming all yours. Thank you Dean Murthy. Let me also  introduce the faculty area directors. Professor Cho from computer science, the  faculty area director for data science. Professor Song Li from bioengineering, faculty  area director for translational medicine. Professor Bruce Dunn from  material science and engineering   faculty area director for green energy systems. Professor Eskin from computational medicine   and also computer science the faculty area  director for digital health technology. Professor Guy Van den Broeck a professor  from the computer science, who is also the   faculty area director for artificial intelligence. Professor T.C. Tsao from mechanical and aerospace  engineering, who is a faculty area director for   autonomous systems. Unfortunately, he has to teach  today from four to six, but I will speak on his   behalf. So the faculty area director later on will  have a brief introduction about their program. As Dean Murthy mentioned, we initiated the idea  of setting up the Master of Engineering programs   several years ago based upon the fact that  there is a strong demand from a wide variety   of high-tech sectors for the new breed of  cross-disciplinary engineers who understand   the technical, business and  management aspect of technology. So under the guidance of Dean  Murthy, and the support from   the faculty, as well as the department  chair, we prepared and submitted a proposal   and went through the UC approval  process and finally back in   right before the end of the spring quarter of this  year. So our proposal was officially approved. And so I'd like to briefly go through the  program and the requirements, as well as the   admission criteria, with you and then I'll ask  I'll invite the faculty area director to briefly   talk about their program and finally  would leave plenty of time for Q&A. So the Master of Engineering program had been  established by many top-tier engineering schools   across the country for students whose primary  goal is a professional career in industry. This program essentially is designed as  a professional master's program and it is   a one-year, full-time, on-campus  program. It's a one calendar year,   so it will go through four  quarters including summer. Our plan is to have a 50 inaugural  spots of students for Fall 2021,   and thereafter we will increase the student  population by 50 for each subsequent years.   So by the end of the fourth year, we  should have 200 students in the program. The requirement for this Master of Engineering  degree is very much the same in terms of number   of units as all the on-campus M.S.  degree students. It requires 36 units. Out of the 36 units or nine courses, so we  will have five courses in each technology   concentration, and Dean Murthy also mentioned  that we have a very strong business and management   courses available for the students. The student need to take three courses in this  recorded engineering professional development   sequences. So that will cover  business and management. And finally, all the students need to complete   a capstone project. I will have more detailed  information about the capstone project. And the tuition and fees for the 2021 to  22 academic year will be 50,400 dollars.   It's 1,400 dollars per unit and plus we need  to pay the quarterly fees to the campus.   That will allow you to access the Wooden  Centers and other campus facilities. And the admission criteria are the same  as those set by the graduate division.   We also have set aside some  funds for financial support. So this is just a brief introduction about  admission criteria as we mentioned that this is   pretty much the same as those  set for the graduate division. You need to have a minimum undergraduate GPA of  3.0, and we need three letters of recommendations.   GRE scores, which is optional for the 2021 cohort. For international applicants, we also need TOEFL  or IELTS scores, and a personal statement as well. I'd like to mention that even though  we welcome the mid-career students   with working industry, but working  history in industry is not required. So as Dean Murthy just mentioned,  we have established the six   interdisciplinary technology concentrations. So these six areas are autonomous  systems, digital health technology,   data science, artificial intelligence, green  energy systems and translational medicine. These areas are really at the  forefront of technology innovation   and will have a significant impact on  society. And these are also the areas   in which the School of Engineering and  Applied Science is highly reputed. Again,   the faculty area directors will come  back to briefly introduce their program. The other unique feature of this  program is that the students enroll   in the Master of Engineering program  will take courses with other students   from several academic departments. So  this is essentially a mixed enrollment. As I mentioned, every student need  to complete five technical courses,   plus three engineering professional  development courses and a capstone project. So here is just a sample curriculum for data  science. We have a simple curriculum available   in each area from our website. So in the fall quarter, the students  will take two technical courses,   plus one engineering professional development  elective with a total of 12 units. And in the winter quarter, we  have two technical courses. And the spring quarter, we  will have one technical course,   plus one engineering professional  development elective. And in the summer quarter, students  will take the last engineering   professional development elective,  plus four units of capstone project. So at the end of the summer quarter, the students  who completed all the course requirements   and the capstone project will receive a  Master of Engineering degree from UCLA.   The diploma is a Master of Engineering, and  we will also issue a separate certificate   for you in each of the technology  concentrations that you enrolled in. Here are just sample courses for the  engineering professional development   elective. Currently, the school has  offered several courses in these areas. Here are just some examples.  We have Engineering 201   Technical Project Management, Engineering  215 that's Entrepreneurship for Engineers,   Engineering 214 Management Communication,  Engineering 188 Product Development Strategy. And also this another faculty is developing a  new course called Leadership and Innovation.   We will also expand this course sequence as  more and more students are in the program. Just very briefly about the capstone project,   so all the students must enroll and complete a  capstone project. So that will synthesize and   integrate all the technical skills that  you obtain through the master's program. And the project topic will be selected  by the course instructor based upon   the current trends in each technology,  and based upon the input from the faculty   in each technology concentration as well as  very importantly based upon the industry input. So we were closely working with the industry   to solicit the project, which is a real-life  capstone project. The industry partner may also   provide a senior engineer to be the co-advisor  or the co-sponsor of the capstone project. So basically, we would like to provide important  linkage between the mass of engineering students   and also different industrial sectors.   This will be a small group project,  so a team of three to four students.   We will work together in a group and will conduct  hands-on analysis, design testing, as appropriate. And a final project report will be turned in and a  presentation will be made to the faculty capstone   committee and the entire class. So the capstone  project will also serve as a comprehensive written   exam requirement, so there is no  thesis required for this program. In terms of student advising, we have student  affairs officers SAO, and also we have the   faculty area director as well as the faculty  participating in each technology concentration. In terms of other ongoing support, we will have a  staff position available. It's a career placement   adviser, and his or her role essentially  is to coordinate with industry recruiters   as well as coordinate with the campus career  placement office to help match the employers. As I just mentioned, the intent of the  capstone project is to connect students   with industry sponsors to build a personal  networking and also for the career guidance. As Dean Murthy mentioned, we have  several industry partnerships.   We have received a strong letter of support of  several companies including Northrop Grumman,   Google, HRL, Xerox, and the  list is currently expanding. We are also working with a lot of local  industry for example, a lot of startups   in the Silicon Beach area in Santa Monica and  so again, we would like to build a very strong   network so that we can help the student to  land a job after they complete their degree. Next I'd like to invite each faculty area  director to briefly described their program. So as I mentioned that Professor  Tsao is teaching currently,   so I will briefly introduce  the autonomous systems. The Master of Engineering program in autonomous  systems is designed to prepare students to work   in a spectrum of autonomy, including  self-driving cars, unmanned aircraft systems   for example. And these autonomous  systems have the ability to perceive,   to learn and act with self-awareness and respond  intelligently to unforeseen changing environment. So certainly we believe strongly that  these systems will have the potential to   deeply impact society. In terms of the coursework, we basically  want to integrate faculty expertise   from several departments that include  mechanical and aerospace engineering,   electrical and computer engineering,  as well as computer science. The topic of the courses that the student can  take that include the dynamic systems and control,   the machine learning and optimization,  sensor technology, AI, visions and so on. Next I'd like to invite Professor Eskin to  talk about the digital health technology. Hi, thank you for opportunity to  discuss this program. So I'm Eleazar   Eskin. I'm the chair of a new department  called computational medicine,   which is a joint venture between the David Geffen  School of Medicine and the School of Engineering. And the area that I that the program that I'm  leading is called the digital health technology,   which combines data science mobile health,  health informatics technology, wearable health,   signal processing all to analyze biomedical data.  And the courses span many different departments. It's a great program. There's a great research going on both in  engineering and medicine. This is a great way for   individuals in the industry  to connect to these efforts. Thank you. Next, I would like  to introduce Professor John Cho   from computer science about  his program in data science. Hello everyone. Welcome to UCLA webinar.   My name is John Cho. I'm a professor  in the computer science department   and I'm leading the efforts for the data science  program of our Master of Engineering program. And we all and fully appreciate  that this is really the era of   big data. There is just so much data being  generated from everywhere, and we also know   that by being able to leverage with the data  that is generated somehow if we can make some   sense out of it there will be a lot of values  and knowledge that can be discovered from it. So the goal of our data science program is  to equip you with the knowledge. Here both   theoretical and practical knowledge about how can  we make sense out of these large amounts of data.   And in order to do that job  very well, in terms of the   practical side, we need to know what  are the tools that are available. There are a lot of popular  tools that are being used today   like Python, and maybe some deep learning  libraries, and maybe some of these or advanced   like probabilistic reasoning tools right. And also  distributed computation systems like Sparks, etc. So on one side of our program, we  want to introduce these tools to you,   so that later when there is  a need for using these tools   you feel comfortable using them.  So that is on one practical side. And on the other side, more of  our theoretical side, is that   in order to discover patterns or make  sense of the data available data. We need to know how we can analyze  it, and what are the mathematical   and probabilistic tools that we can  use and algorithms that we can use   in order to somehow look into the data.  Explore the data and make some sense out of it. So for the classes, what we will do is that during  the lecture we will go over this theoretical   and algorithmic computational models  and theory and then for the projects,   you will be able to use these tools  to analyze the real-world data. And our curriculum is designed to be covering  both of this practical and the theoretical side,   and most of our programs like fundamentals in  data science and database management systems   or deep learnings or natural language processing  -- they all are kind of designed around this   general theme of teaching the theory and  the actual practice of using the real tools. So I'm looking forward to   working with you to kind of explore this  exciting area of data science. Thank you. Next, I'd like to introduce  Professor Guy Van den Broeck,   the faculty area director  for artificial intelligence. Hello. So of course welcome everyone. I don't  think I have to say that much about what is AI   -- I think you've seen it everywhere. It's about  building algorithms that behave intelligently that   can make predictions that are complicated. Explain  data play games and solve complicated problems. And so why would you want to maybe study AI  at UCLA Engineering? So let me advertise a   little bit why we're maybe one of the best  places to study AI. So there's a really   vibrant AI ecosystem at UCLA. We of course  have the medical school and digital health   initiatives. We have the law school.  Everyone is essentially doing AI these days,   but especially within the engineering school. You know from mechanical engineering, where  we have world-renowned robotics experts to   electrical and computer engineering, where  we have world-renowned computer vision and   signal processing people to my department,  which is a computer science department. We have a lot of experts in the field, and so  historically I would say UCLA is considered   to be one of the top two schools,  maybe top three schools, to do AI. For example, Judea Pearl won the Turing award,  which is the Nobel Prize in computer science.   Kind of for his work on AI. First time we solved  the Rubik's Cube with AI, it was done at UCLA,   but those things are of course history. And so today what the school has done is  invest a lot in very junior stars in the field,   and so those are also the people that will be  teaching the graduate courses in this program. And of course our students that graduate,  they also have a great reputation among the   top tech companies that in Silicon Beach and  outside, and so they're hired to work on AI. Maybe very quickly you know what will these  five technical courses look like that you take   when you take this AI concentration. So of  course there will be a deep learning course. There are actually several options in different  departments, and so this will be really valuable   because this is driving a lot of the value for  industry. Then there will be courses on specific   application areas of machine learning. So in  natural language processing, computer vision. Then there's a bunch of course courses  that are offered at the graduate level   that are maybe more like core machine learning.  Things like large-scale machine learning,   deep generative models, reinforcement learning.   And then finally, there's courses that are  falling under the umbrella of maybe core AI. Traditional model based AI. Things like Bayesian  networks, causality and probabilistic programming.   So there's plenty of stuff available for you to  study when you choose this concentration. Thanks. Thank you.   Next I'd like to introduce Professor Bruce Dunn,  a faculty area director for green energy systems. Hello everyone. My name is Bruce Dunn. I'm  the chairman of the department of materials   science and engineering and I'm also the  area director for green energy systems.   And very briefly to tell you about this. First there's just a few points I want to make.   First of all, our future, without question,  depends upon the development of green energy.   So it's a fabulous area for technological  development and of course business opportunities. The field itself is inherently interdisciplinary,  and so it involves people and courses in material   science, but also chemical, biomolecular  engineering, mechanical and aerospace engineering,   and electrical and computer engineering. So all  that is inherent in the program that we have. We are leveraging our program, our technical  program, on the strengths of our world-famous   faculty in areas of energy  generation, in terms of renewables   in energy storage and smart grid systems, and  then an overarching theme that we have in this   in this direct in this area  is energy and the environment. And I look forward to welcoming the  new class in next year. Thank you. Thank you. So next, I'd like to introduce  Professor Song Li from bioengineering   the area director for translational medicine. Hello everyone. My name is Song  Li. I'm the professor and chair of   engineering. I serve as the director for  translational medicine area. This area is   highly interdisciplinary at the interface of  engineering biological sciences and medicine. So it integrates the faculty expertise from  three engineering departments in bioengineering,   chemical and biomolecular engineering  and computer computational medicine.   It also involves broadly the faculty in  engineering school and medical school   for the capstone projects, for guest  lecture, etc. In addition, we also   have industry speakers from pharmaceutical  companies in biomedical device companies. So in this area, we do have several  things going on. For example,   in biology and medicine, a lot of new discoveries.   On the other hand, the engineering field  a lot of advancement in technology.   So our goal is to train the students to apply the  technology and engineering principles to solve   the problems in medicine. The courses actually are  quite broad, and also there's some depths as well. On the website probably you see about five courses  there, but we do have more than that about 10   courses available as options. So for example, we  have courses on drug delivery, we have courses on   tissue engineering by material, we also  have courses to cover biomedical devices,   such as a point of care diagnosis,  microfluidic devices, also instrumentation. We also have courses on biomedical imaging  in computational medicine. So this includes   machine learning and how you can apply these  algorithms to solve problems in medicine biology. For capstone projects, we are going  to have partnership with industry.   Many of these companies are not listed  in the slides. We do have a connection   to the large pharmaceutical  companies such as Amgen   and Genetech, also biomedical devices companies  such as Medtronic and Edwards Lifesciences, etc. We also have connections with many  startups. So these capstone projects will be   truly a problem-solving related to IND real-world  problems. I think students will learn a lot. I also want to mention that I used to be at  Berkeley. We had some similar program Master in   Engineering involves both campuses. This  translational medicine involves UCSF and Berkeley.   And at UCLA, we have an advantage to have both  top engineering schools and top medical schools   on same campus. It's a perfect place  to address this area and study here. Look forward to your application and hopefully  to have opportunity to work with you. Thank you. Okay and um so for more information  please visit our website it's meng.ucla.edu   or you can email us at meng@seas.ucla.edu. So that concludes our presentation part,  so I'd like to open the floor for a Q&A. Hi, welcome everyone. My name is Shanna Revoner. Our first question is… How would you advise  students on whether to pursue the current   traditional UCLA M.S. degree or this new  Master of Engineering degree program? That's a very good question that  certainly is up to individual. So   as I mentioned, the Master of Engineering  degree is a professional degree.   It's also a terminal degree program. So if  you are in the traditional M.S. program,   after you finish if you want, you have the  option to come to move on to the Ph.D. program. While in this case, a Master of Engineering  degree is a terminal degree program.   So which program is more suitable  for you and this is really   an individual's choice. But I think both  programs are outstanding programs for you. Great, so a follow-up to that is will employers   view a single-year degree with the  same weight as a two-year degree? Not really, on-campus M.S. degree can  also be complete in one year. So again,   if you take three courses per  quarter you will be able to finish   nine courses in three quarters and  complete your on-campus M.S. degree.   So I do not see that the employer will  treat these two degrees any different. Next question, if we're trying to get management  education how does this program compare to an MBA? Well certainly that MBA is   more extensive education as far as I know at the  UCLA MBA program. It requires 80 units to complete   and if you're a full-time student it takes a full  two years or if you're a part-time student like   the fully employed MBA program, it  takes about three years to complete. So, we basically want to give  you a foundation to move into the   technology management and also understand not  just the technical aspect of the technology, but   also you learn how to manage a project, learn how  to communicate and learn how to work in a team,   so essentially this will give you all the  foundations that you need to be successful. Can you clarify how much technical  coursework is covered in this program? Out of the 36 units required for degree completion  you need to take 20 units of technical courses   or five courses in each of  the technology concentration. And as a follow-up to that is it  possible to complete the program   while being employed full-time or  concurrently with part-time work? As it is now, the program is designed to be  a one-year, full-time, on-campus program. Just to confirm can international students  apply to the program and if so, does it come   is it a STEM program and will  it be valid for OPT visa? Yes, international students are welcome to  apply to the program, and by the time when   you finish the program you have stayed at UCLA  campus for a minimum of three quarters already,   so you meet the criterion for the OPT, and  the answer is yes you are eligible for OPT. Will any admissions preference be given to current   UCLA engineering students  who will graduate in 2021? Yes, the program is open to everyone. So a background in mechanical engineering  would be a good fit for the program? Background in chemical engineering  yes, of course, like Professor Dunn   has mentioned that in the green energy  system and as well as in Professor Li's   translational medicine. So we will have courses in  that from chemical and biomolecular engineering,   and also it's an interdisciplinary program. So  the students from mechanical from electrical   engineering or from chemical engineering they  can apply to different programs of course   that you need you need to take courses outside  from your traditional chemical engineering program   to broaden your engineering skills  as well as the engineering knowledge. Given the circumstances around Covid,  undergraduate engineering classes this past   year at UCLA have been more theoretical without  any hands-on learning. How would you describe   this master's program? Is it more theoretical  or more hands-on? What if Covid still requires   online next fall, how will students receive  practical application in this program? That's a very good question. So it really depends  upon a lot of factors related to Covid and the   campus policy and also any restriction from the  L.A. department of public health. Assuming that   Covid, the availability of vaccine and  the students are all back to campus,   and so we will be able to welcome the first cohort  of students to campus by fourth quarter 2021.   Yes, this program is designed to be very hands-on,  so in addition to the five technical courses plus   the three professional engineering professional  development courses, still all the students need   to complete a capstone project. So the capstone  project as I mentioned earlier that is designed   to be a hands-on experience and working  on a project, which may be sponsored by   the industry, and also the industry  may also have their senior engineers   to serve as the co-advisor for the capstone  project in each technology concentration. You mentioned that work experience... Excuse me, sorry, I'd like to invite all the  area directors to chip in any time. Go ahead. You mentioned that work experience is not required  however will preference be given to older students   or is this really designed for students coming  straight out of an undergraduate program? Both okay. Students in each  cat in either day they're just   about to finish their undergraduate degree or  they have been working for a few years okay.   They are all welcome to apply to the  program. But I just want to mention that this   will be a full-time on-campus program. It's  not a part-time program at this moment. Is the Master of Engineering program  eligible for the ESAP program? I mean the ESAP program is for the top students,  top undergraduate students in the school.   If those students apply they would  definitely be considered very favorably,   and so I will have a separate meeting with Dean  Rick Wesel about the ESAP program whether these   students will be admitted automatically into  the Master of Engineering program or not.   And I will have an answer early next week. For the first year, I understand  there will be 50 students   admitted. Does this mean the first  year or for each area of study? We will have a total of 50 students for year one.   And then a hundred students for year two,  150 for year three and 200 at year four.   At our capacity, we will have 200  students in the program. After four years. Will there be an opportunity to lower the cost  of tuition through a TA-ship? I know for the M.S.   degrees, you can get some of the costs covered  of your tuition if you TA in the department. Yes, if you're eligible to be a TA  that certainly is a possibility,   yes. And we also have set aside some  funds available for financial aid. Is there a list of required or recommended  courses for each technical area listed somewhere? So um, Guy? You want to give you  want to answer that question? You mean specifically for the AI concentration? Yeah, yeah, is there a list of required  or recommended courses for your area? Yeah, so currently I don't think that there is a  list online except for maybe a sample curriculum.   So I can definitely see for  the AI concentration there is.   So I already mentioned there's two versions of  a deep learning course there's two different   course numbers one in electrical and computer  engineering the other one in computer science. And then another kind of core  part of that program is CS 260,   which is the machine learning algorithms course,   which will then go through all of the different  machine learning models, training algorithms. I mean of course yeah, I don't want to you  know go through all of the options here,   but I think you know maybe Jenn-Ming can confirm  that in the in the next few weeks and months,   there will be more details about exactly which  courses are suggested for these programs okay. Okay. Will admissions be based on the  concentration that you select,   that is will you have target  numbers for each concentration? So our initial plan is to have almost to kind  of evenly distribute it among six technology   concentrations, but that again depending  upon how many applicants are from each areas. So yeah so how many students per concentration.  As I mentioned that the initial plan   is about eight to 10 students per  technology concentration, but again   the actual number will be different based  upon the number of applicants in each area. Is there any quota limitation  for international students? No, we don't. John, there is a question for you. Are there  any prerequisite courses for data science? In terms of the preparation for the  data science concentration, I think   one way to think about it is that as long as  you are a good engineering student, I think   you are pretty much ready in the sense that in  order to be able to follow our curriculum or   you need to have the basic mathematics background. Like we need to know the probability  basic probabilities and statistics   and a little bit of like calculus and  linear algebra like these basic classes   that you teach that you learn as an engineering  student or maybe even science student right. And I think even science students are fine   as long as they have a reasonable experience  regarding the basics of the program.   We don't expect that you have five years of  software engineering kind of an experience,   but we do expect that you have used some software,  some programming language to implement something. Those are kind of the basics that we assume  and then as long as you have that much of a   background or we kind of set our curriculum so  that even if it has maybe it has been a while   since you kind of learned these things the  first two courses are more of like slightly   undergraduate level kind of thing so  that you can kind of brush up your skills   and then you can gradually migrate  into more advanced stuff later. So the answer is that as long as you're a  reasonable science or engineering student,   we expect that you will be  able to follow on curriculum. So there's also a question about how to  prepare for the autonomous systems program. So as I mentioned that from the curriculum  prepared by Professor Tsao that has courses   from mechanical, aerospace engineering, computer  science and ECE okay and the students can select   courses in, for example, vehicle systems  and control and machine learning, and AI,   and also a lot of simulation and  modeling electric vehicles and so on. So basically, it's suitable for  students with a different backgrounds.   You can have a background in  mechanical and mechanical engineering. Students can also have a background in computer  science or background in electrical engineering. So we have a series of courses for you   available for students from different  backgrounds. Different pathways as well. So is the curriculum published  in terms of course numbers? Yes, we will have um a sample   courses in each technology concentration  with course numbers. For example, we have   MAE 273A listed in autonomous systems. MAE 273A  is robust the control system analysis and design. And they also have listed ECE C247,  which is a neural network and deep   learning as one of the codes. Another  example is MAE 263A, which is kinematic   of robotic systems. So we will include  all these course numbers on our website. Just to confirm right now the course  lists are not available right?   But we will make it available  previously and this is so, Jenn-Ming? Yeah, so we will add that to the website. And there is also a question about when our   application is due and when  are admission decisions made. So as it is now, the deadline for application  is December 1, which is the same as for all the   on-campus program. However we recognize  that we just publicized this program,   and so we have the flexibility to extend the  application deadline until end of February. And in terms of the decision,  as long as your application   package is complete, and we will start  our review and evaluation process,   so we will let you know about the decision  as soon as we complete the evaluation. So I would say that the earlier  you submit your application,   the earlier you will hear from  us regarding the decision. The last question is... Will an interview be  conducted as part of the application package? At this moment no. So there's another question... If an admitted  international student cannot get a visa   to come to the U.S., will it be possible to defer  his or her enrollment for the following year? Yes, of course. Bruce, I have a question for you. The  student asked... What career options could   be open to students of green energy systems  program after completion of the program? Sure, so there's already a number of green energy   companies in the areas of solar cell  and wind energy. You're all familiar   of course with electric vehicles and of  course that's another huge area involved. There's also a lot of work related to the  utilities. Utilities need people for smart grid,   and smart grid of course is very much in   essential importance in green energy.  So there's a number of opportunities. They run the gamut from things that are really   very technological to those which  are much more business oriented. Thank you. Here again, just several faculty area directors.  So if you have any additional questions   please feel free to email us. We also have a list of FAQ on the website. So Christine, back to you. Thank you, Dean Yang. At this point, I think  we answered most of your questions. We are   going to continue to answer questions  through our email and you can always   check out the latest FAQ our website. So with that I'd like to thank you   thank you all for joining us we have another  webinar on November 9th at the same time. Just   in case for some reason that you wish  to join us again you can always RSVP. With that thank you all for joining  and have a good rest of the evening or   good rest of the day depending on where  you're joining us from. Thank you all. 