 Hello everyone  and welcome to this new video! Today you will see a technical video. I think it will trigger many of you. As has already happened in Jerez, after finishing the Superbike tests. As you have seen in my latest videos. Superbike was faster than MotoGP. MotoGP lovers were so triggered! They began to say: "It's not possible!" "Salvadori, you don't understand nothing! F**k you!" Let's pay attention! Today I want to explain how is it possible  a 180.000 euros bike was faster than a 2 millions euros prototypes. A number of favorable situations, a number of favorable situation  from the technical point of view. I don't know why no one analyse it. Most of the people look only at the times. A rider may have raced with  a 180-lap tire, the other one with a qualification's tire.  So there's inevitably a difference of about 2 seconds, due to tires. But people don't look at it! They only think about the times! But you can't only read the times. There are many values  to take into consideration. Let's start from a fact. Or better...in these cases facts don't exist, but I want to express my own opinion MotoGP with the same tires,  same situation, and so on, is 1.5/2 seconds faster than the MotoGP. And that is where the shoe pinches. "If these bikes costs 2 millions, it is not possible they are only 2 seconds faster!" Firstly: in Motorsport 2 seconds are a lot. If a bike costs double, it doesn't mean it's doubly faster. To explain that, I drew this. Benefits in the X-axis, costs in the Y-axis. Let me explain that. Let me give an example. Especially about the relationship  between costs and benefits. Let's say on the costs-axis we put: 2k,10k, and 40k euros. To give an example: - 40k: MotoGP fork - 10k: Superbike fork - 2k: fork of the bike I use  during the National. Let's begin from here, Nix 30 fork, the fork I use during the National. As you can see the cost is not very high and its benefit is considerable. The difference is noticeable. From here let's go to the SBK fork. That's to say the best for a stock bike. We have already reached 10k euro. As you can see, the benefit is noticeable, despite the very important price increase. Think about what I am telling you,  for each component of the bike. From the Superbike fork, let's go to the MotoGP fork that is worth 40k euros. The price is raised considerable,  but the benefits are not so noticeable. Not so noticeable as we have seen in a stock bike fork or in a Nix 30. The sophistication of a MotoGP, brings you benefits, but not as much as you expect. What we did before: double price, double benefits. It's not true! You can use this example, thinking about each component of the bike. The exhaust, the chassis,... In MotoGP each bike can have its chassis. Motorcycle companies want to satisfy the specific needs of each rider. In Superbike is different: You can only strenghten or add something on what's already on the bike. It's a rougher procedure... But the result is almost the same. Instead, between a chassis of a stock bike and a strenghten chassis there's a huge difference! In Superbike, for this reason, Kawasaki is one of the most used bike   by private teams, but you see few of them,  as a stock bike... that's to say, without any changes. What else made the difference? The track. Jerez is a sliding track, where power doesn't make the difference. It counts much more,  having a grip tire. Here we have another huge difference: Between Superbike Pirelli tires and MotoGP Michelin tires. MotoGP Michelin tires are made  to last longer, they are harder, they must withstand greater powers. Instead Rea, especially during tests, he could to use a qualifying tire. A qualifying tire,  compared to a racing tire, which is already super-soft, there's one second difference. And it's a tire which lasts only a lap. This is a great advantage! Compared to a racing tire, that was used by Bradl and by the Honda. Another important thing:  Bikers must be sold. It was a great occasion for Rea  and for the Kawasaki to use a qualifying tire and to try to score time during the last 10 minutes. Instead Bradl and the Honda were there only to do the test. They didn't care about the times. Furthermore, he is Bradl  and he's not Marquez. So you have to add six or seven tenths. On average during races, Bradl compared to the first position raced between 1.3 second  and six or seven tenths. Bradl and Rea had two completely different goals. Rea acted very well.  As always, he created havoc. Rea succeeded in making people  talk about the new bike... Everyone is happy, especially the Kawasaki. It's strange to think that  a 180.000 euros bike can beat a some million euros prototype. But we explained the reasons, and it's not a miracle. We don't have to say the MotoGP has to be 10 seconds faster than the other bikes. But as I said at the beginning, in normal circumstances, the Superbike will gain 1.2/2 seconds. And this is completely normal. Who says that they are few... he never raced on a track. The most attentive of you have surely noticed that Rea has gained an amazing time, instead Bautista, who was more concentrated in fixing the bike, has gained only 2 seconds  on a Honda Official. You can't compare the times made during the tests with the times gained during a race. I hope you enjoyed this video! If you did, let me know with a like  on this video! Subscribe to my channel: the more we are, the more there is a chance to see me with those rowdies! Gas and see you to my next video! SUBSCRIBE TO MY CHANNEL! Subtitles: Teresa Medori 