 All right, everyone good morning This is like a good morning. Hahahahaha. Thank you Thank you very much. I am very very honored that so many people got out of bed And they are here joining us this morning. So thank you for that. I'm also very very privileged that Given the Tedx kind of format of the rest of the day that I have 45 minutes with you now having said that For me 45 minutes is like the speed-dating of a master class okay, so we are Going to get into things as as deep as I can get in the time that we have together And my goal for us today is Twofold One I want to serve a bit as a catalyst for thought I'm Probably going to present some ideas that are a little bit less than what convention Puts forth at least in the in the first bit of what I'm going to talk about in terms of engagement then I want to also leave you with some of the process or How-to of tackling this scenario based learning and especially in an e-learning scenario, so some of the my later slides, I've constructed in such a way that when you get the slide deck, you could actually use them as a Thought jogger a checklist and things along those lines so usually I don't like to have too much text on my slides But I wanted to make sure that there was a purpose for the end So it was my design if you want if you want to think of it that way So all right let's get moving then I don't know how much everyone can see the details of this cartoon But I wonder how familiar this is so you have a fella at his desk going blah blah blah blah blah click next click next level blah click next And then the boss coming in and saying Tom. How did you make out with that elearning course I finished it in 43 minutes But what was it about? It which thought it was about something click next tonight So I wonder how many people This resonates with either as a learner or hopefully not as a designer, but as at the end of the day And what I want to explore here is what is really the problem Which is it a learner engagement problem or a learning experience? problem okay, and There is a whole lot of research out there in Terms of students and learner learner engagement as well as employee engagement, right? I mean, that's the big term we don't have not enough employees are engaged we got to get them in to engage Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Well, what does it really mean and what what are the nuggets that we're trying to or? At the core that what are we trying to influence is what I want to get at and I think sometimes There is a disconnect between theory and practice I've always been a proponent from a very young age in terms of my career in Academia And everything like that that they really go hand in hand and so much you have Academics pooh-poohing the practitioners you have the practitioners pooh-poohing the academics when they're two sides of the same coin And we need both to inform the other so I'm going to propose to you today that we don't have a learner engagement problem We have a learning experience problem, and this is where I'm going to kind of throw the cat amongst the pigeons so to speak everything that I've read and in terms of the the research about engagement and the definition I have up here is kind of my Amalgamation of that is that engagement is that the internal process? in a human being it is actually an outcome of a few things that are going on with inside an individual and What's happening? Is is that based on the perceived value of the learning experience as it interplays with The individual's own degree of what we call self-efficacy or their confidence their growth in their own confidence and abilities that's where engagement comes from now where does the perceive value come from and That comes from this notion of intrinsic motivation and we're going to talk about motivation a Snapshot of it in a few minutes, so if you can just kind of all of my argument here And I you know you don't have to agree with me This is why I said I want to be a bit of a catalyst And how happy to have a discussion after this 45 minutes since we only have very little bit of time But again think of that engagement is the outcome of the learners perceived value of a learning experience Inter playing with their own degree of really self confidence in the knowledge and the learning and their skills Now experience then on the other hand is Something that we actually have an opportunity to influence now anyone who's taught in a classroom and Has design learning and watched it being taught alright because I know it goes either way You could have the same activities with two different groups and two very very different outcomes I know I've done this you know I've been teaching at a university level off and on since the late 90s and I would do this amazing activity and it was just it just got absolutely gangbusters with my students at one tutorial class and 40 minutes later, I do it again, and it falls completely flat, and you're like. What in the world is going on so if we can create All right the conditions which motivation intrinsic motivation is Ignited so for me experiences be co-created alright, so it's not just us because there is an interaction with the learner a co-created Contextual conditions right depends on the circumstances that we're dealing with within which the learner That which sorry within which learners experience the learning environment? including the instructor the physical or virtual surroundings the course and the content design as well as established institutional or classroom cognitive and emotional cultures Let's face it. We're human beings things are complex we really really really try to make them less complex and sometimes we're very good at doing and sometimes we Miss a boat in that attemPt so I want to challenge you to look at this in a multi-faceted way and recognize that it isn't as simple simple as following a checklist and Slapping some you know interesting narrative on a scenario in a way we go, right So let's look at this a little bit more Alright, so then the ultimate question is or what I'm stating kind of jumped ahead is that we don't have a learner engagement problem? We have a learning experience problem Because if we had a learner engagement problem the people are the problem We don't ever ever ever want to make the people the problem occasionally happens But we really don't want to focus on that. We want to focus on excuse me on areas that we have some influence and really the internal processes of any human being Sometimes we don't even have that on ourselves let alone you know other people and you know if anyone has a spouse or significant other we know how well that goes right, so The people want the problem the experience perhaps is a problem so let's look at A Snapshot of the science of motivation, and I'm looking at the social science not the cognitive science necessarily There is more out there on that Excuse me So there's a lot of there's a lot going on here, and I'm not going to sit here and read this slide And you can have a look at it later, and I thought it was really well put together When we think of motivation we often think of characteristics, right? And in we all know that's extrinsic motivation that is motivation outside of the individual and it works to a certain degree and in certain situations for a certain period of time it doesn't work when we start trying to work on very complex problems, and we're trying to motivate people to problem-solve at that level, but if we wanted someone to jump Rope Faster Right then extrinsic motivation could work on another 10. Let's see if you can do it in 10 seconds, less and In those instances in extrinsic scuse me motivation works really well you know rewards and punishments and things like that But not so much in terms of creating intrinsic motivation So there are a number of series out there? I'm just going to touch on a few everybody's fairly familiar with maslow's Hierarchy of needs right and If you know you could be have the best experience design That you want, but if somebody doesn't feel safe Then the things aren't going to work so you could create a great learning experience But in the room you might have a toxic culture from an organization someone people are not going to feel safe enough to participate in many cases right, so There's a lessons what I'm saying. There's a lot going on here, but high maslow's hierarchy of needs is one of those areas that Can help instigate or ignite? intrinsic motivation, but you couple that with the self-Determination Theory, and this is really really important because especially as adults we want to feel that we have a level of autonomy and control and participation and that we feel valued Ok and self-determination plays into that the other Topic or motive intrinsic motivation Theory it goes with more than motivation, but is flow state How many people are familiar with flow state? Yeah, fair few absolutely Essentially what this this theory is talks about is that intrinsic motivation occurs when there is a balance between the Learner's? Present skills and the challenges he or she is facing So a learner possessing low problem-solving skills. Will only be able to solve problems with a low challenge Solving problems will then increase their skills and to keep them motivated The challenge has to increase as the learners skills increase and that's I Wish I could point with my little pointer here, but that is the cycle in there So you have to figure out where their skill set is in the first place Or in some cases. I know we're creating learning for a large kind of organizational Audience so there's varying but as best as you can and then have them complete those challenges that Circles them around in terms of challenge challenges and increasing their skill sets and so on and so forth This keeps them engaged. Which is the outcome of the intrinsic motivation Referee says that when you present a person with a problem that resides within the flow channel as you can see up there he or she will be intrinsically motivated to solve that problem, so you must design scenario based learning whether it's Face to face or if it's elearning with this particular theory in mind So you must balance the scenarios challenges with the skills you can expect of your target audience in such a way In most cases at least that the problem that need the problems that need solving reside within the flow channel Sometimes even on the edge of it so that remember a time in your own learning experience your own growth where you feel like you're on the edge of Being able to keep your head above water I've often said to my students at the beginning of a term During this term you were going to be challenged and sometimes you're going to feel like you can barely breathe your chins just above water and So many of us think that that's a bad thing we got to get rid of it, and when I say to them is Growth You're being stretched So this is what we want to be doing in an incremental or gradual fashion. We don't want to freak people out, right? But this is where we need to challenge ourselves, and this is where your value as instructional designers come into play It's too easy to take the easy road and just slapped from learning together. It's a challenge professionally to challenge other people So this is what an intrinsically motivated learner looks like? They employ strategies that demand more effort They process information more deeply they prefer tasks that are more challenging They will put in a greater effort. Which is usually what we're measuring They'll show long-term retention of what was learned They apply the knowledge more often than others and they perceive themselves more competent That's that self-efficacy thing that we were mentioning so other factors is they identifying relevance of learning goals heightens and motivation and contextualizing learning and the applicability of skills I kind of Threw that in there. I have it more in another slide, so I was mixing things up a bit And I probably should have put that later So how do we create the conditions? What is involved what are those conditions that will ignite? Intrinsic motivation, what are the conditions? well Curiosity right we want people to be curious. We can do that through narrative We want to to Put in creativity and a bit of fun with what we're doing yet. Keep it realistic We want to build in autonomy and control for the learner again that notion of challenge and then mastery the contextualization and the purpose I Can't tell you how many times and I'm very sure I'd be very surprised if anyone here would disagree where we haven't had times We're like what is the purpose of what we're doing? This is pointless and a waste of my life units Right so I figure somebody said once it's a long way we have life units and each one of those life units are precious So I don't want to be wasting my life units, right? or anyone elses this notion of interactivity which can take many different forms as you all know and so these are these are the elements to create of creating the conditions for intrinsic motivation Right, so if we are learning experience designers, which I? Use were starting to see the shift from instructional design Which went along with I'm the expert? You aren't to a learning experience Then we need to be influencing these elements in Terms of the design that we create for the learner so that in the end the intrinsic motivation is is Ignited and the engagement is then captured You all with me so far. I know I got kind of academic on you, so So this is the this is kind of the the more practical side of things Mm-Hmm, and we have about 25 minutes or so so we'll see how we go with this so let's talk about designing the experience now what we're talking about regardless of the e-learning or face to face is scenario based learning and It's ideal for a number of different things in terms of formulating strategy identifying issues Generating sensitivity to change practicing new newly acquired skills in a safe con context stimulating action improving analytical skills encouraging problem-solving and Improving soft skills have a little asterisk by the soft skills Just because while I do think if it's done correctly it can improve soft skills Being a person who? My whole background is about soft skills you really need to practice it and you can practice it Intellectually or you can practice it physically and it's one of those things until you practice practice soft skills Physically time and time again. Just like writing as a craft. It's kind of hard to really get it right So that's why I put a little asterisk by that one But the point here is that it's ideal for a number of different things And if what you're trying the goals and the outcomes you're trying to achieve don't fit into one of these areas Then you probably don't want to use scenario based learning right So really really think about what it is. You're trying to achieve in the outcome and and Pull the right tool from your toolbox So the key characteristics here is you need to make sure that it's realistic and informative So you're involving experienced people to identify the objectives and the activity Experience people being the subject matter experts, but it's more than subject matter experts in this issue because we're we're looking at what problem are we trying to solve what gap are we trying to fill and So well subject matter expert may be part of that there might be also a man management or managers who are seeing? What errors are being made that need to be involved as well? make it relatable, so model characters after real people and Avoid irrelevant details just for the sake of entertainment So I'm all for storytelling. I'm all for narrative, but don't go too far afield or you might create cognitive overload Or distraction at the very least So make sure it's learner centric again these are key characteristics draw upon the Learners core strengths Right they're all so you can establish Their confidence level draw on those core strengths to move forward focus on Performance improvement not the correct answers Because otherwise it just might as well be a true/false multiple test choice there you know assessment and Provide as we would feedback. You know remediation and reinforcement along the way that's absolutely key in any learning, but certainly in scenario based learning Okay, applied learning strategies This requires the learner to have a basic knowledge of the topic or topics prior to the scenario, so They're coming in with assumed knowledge provide opportunities to analyze evaluate and finally to create solution solutions based on their knowledge and then allow learners Allow learners to learn through their mistakes with plausible consequences. This is probably one of the really important Key points of scenario based learning is that people need to see the consequences of their choices and Because it's scenario-based because it's a safe environment They have this opportunity to screw up without really screwing up, right? I mean, it's just like if anybody works in the area of It and you're rolling out a huge Software like Sa p or something across an organization you have a test environment first Right you don't just deploy. It across 8,000 employees and just hope for the best although sometimes it still happens, but So, but you have a test environment, so they can see the consequences of their choices Interaction and this is where you know we tend to focus a lot of time, and that's fine. It's good. It's important Interaction then requires the selection of responses to move learners through the lessons again instead of just answering correct Conte you know answering content questions. You're supplying Information only as needed all right then that adds to the contextual basis of it You're using images and sounds to enhance the experience That's not there for whiz-bang effects. It's there to enhance the experience And as a very simple example is changing facial expressions and backgrounds All right Because I understand that when these these types of projects are done the budgets are you know? Tiny to a fair bit usually tiny right? So we have to be creative and work with what we have should Groove moving and grooving Okay So those are at the high level the key characteristics Alright, let's move into a little bit about more of a process that I've gone through in the past of clients right so you want to involve your subject matter experts and other stakeholders you want to conduct a Discovery and collaboration session and I would say sessions Probably more so than other types of learning design the scenario based learning It's really what's in their heads? And then giving you a bunch of powerpoint slides with some content isn't usually not going to do it It's good to get you up to speed But when you actually go to start creating the designer the scenarios you need to be sitting with them Working through it asking questions collaborating on the scenario that is created and there were choice responses and the Feedback and And keeping your finger on the pulse as to whether or not that is going to be accurate and fill the needs There was a client that I worked with a few years ago We spent five days 8-10 hours a day in a room with four smes to create the three or four scenarios branching scenarios with them I mean it was intense my brain hurt, so This is really Key And you could knock out a whole lot in by doing this this is really really really really critical and if you get this Right or close to right then the rest of the process is going to be very? Smoother it'll go Smoother just Like anything else. We need to analyze Where are the learners making the real-World errors? Okay, what errors are the making where are they making them? Why are they making these mistakes? What behaviors need to change so they avoid these errors? What are the metrics needed to demonstrate the impact to the business? There have been a linkedin report that came out recently talking about LNG's Importance or impAct in Perceived impact in businesses and so often the Roi that we're measuring is fluffy stuff Okay, so we can change that and excited as I am about what feedback you give me today. Yes I'm more excited to hear about what impacts you go then go on and having your organization's Okay So we have to really decide what we're what we're measuring What resources can assist? Oh, sorry, that's next one What resources can assist learners to navigate to the optimal Path? Right and so in that discovery session with the smes and stakeholders a lot of this is being spoken about So then collaborate to build what does a realistic scenario look like what is the contextualization to it? What are the descriptions of success and failed behaviors? What does it look like in practice? What are the indicators of an on Par or optimal response? What are the indicators of a subpar or sub optimal response and what are the indicators of I'm calling an on Par or non? optimal response for lack of a better term to keep it as consistent as possible because when you're creating this we as the smas you say okay someone comes into the branch of my bank and My teller greets them How should they greet them here's your three options? Okay, I chose perhaps. I was a learner didn't realize I chose the the Sub Optimal response well here's my consequence to that To that choice and then so forth it goes But I wouldn't know that unless I'm sitting there working hand in hand with the experts so to give you an idea of one way of Putting this together. I find spreadsheets work really really well. I have two different examples of this So you have the Sarat excuse me the scenario on top? the actual challenge the choices the consequences those choices and then the conclusions and sometimes you have next steps that could be the resources they could go to it could be any number of things and this is with I would use this to plot and plan a non-branching Scenario, okay, because you can a branching of non-branching all right? there is something there on the left hands my left-hand side and That says advisor one comment advisor to comment. I'll talk about that a little bit later and At the end of the time be sure to reflect on the appropriateness of the questions in relation to the scenario You're with me so far. Yeah It's a lot for a breakfast so once you have those scenarios mapped out on your spreadsheet of course we would want to go to you know a Storyboarding process. I'm not going to teach you how to storyboard Some of the elements that you would want with that this situational description posing of the problem These are the screens that you need to devote to in your storyboards? opportunity consult Advisors, which is optional and a request for the learners to Select behavior that Represents the best course of action so you would have a series of these storyboards capturing these different screens and I will be providing the slides so you can have them as well, so that that you find that helpful The other part of the build for me is I talk about storytelling and narrative. I find that that is hugely Important and I keep saying that there's a lot of things I keep saying are hugely important, so I hope you're taking notes and putting asterisks by them. Not everything is like hugely important But certain things are and I found that We're social beings as human beings. We love stories. We live in stories We get home from work, and we sit down and watch Stories or read stories we love stories We love narrative So what I found you know several years ago I had the privilege of being awarded best instructional designer and learn x and it wasn't because my design was so crash hot really it was because I incorporated a compelling story for the Target audience into systems training right gay systems training Okay so Storytelling is ultra important. So some of our some of the characteristics are the ingredients of the story well Authentic Storyline or a plot right? credible characters a twist or a motivator a challenge emotional and emotional dimension to all that as well as some high points and finally a resolution We don't like stories that are left hanging it Really bothers us psychologically? Right even those stories that we have to wait another year to watch the rest of the movie right? I don't know about you But it niggles at me So remember the importance of storytelling along the way now I mentioned that a scenario based Learning or scenarios can be standalone or they can be branching and oftentimes an e-learning? We have that beautiful ability to do a branching Scenarios it does make it a lot more complex and I think of them kind of as the choose your own adventure stories right and Well, I chose to go on this this way and these are the consequences which leads me over here and Path leads on the pathway leads on the way, and you never quite get back to where you were now having said that in E-Learning scenario branching it does actually kind of need to lead back So what you need to be able to do? I'm getting a little bit ahead of myself, but you need to be able to and I'll show you the next slide, but you need to be able to have certain pathways that end and Then the learner is out of the system and has to start again And then you need to have certain pathways especially if they these two sub optimal not non optimal to get them back to the optimal ultimate outcome Now having said that one of the other ways of making this learning process adaptive is if it's possible to do a pre testing of the required knowledge and While doing the pre testing so it's almost like a pre e-learning little module If they come out on a certain level with a pretest that they don't have the prerequisite information or knowledge, then they need to kind of get not kicked out, but redirected to a Module that will give them that prerequisite knowledge before going into the scenario based learning yeah I mean makes sense Sometimes we don't have the budgets to do that I get that but in an ideal world that would be the way we would do it and I mentioned the the other parts there that on that last point in terms of A branching scenario this would be a type of spreadsheet that I would use it looks similar but different Then the previous ones has the same has the same components but In a different format because if you go down the columns you have the on Par sub par non card This is where you get the opportunity to say okay Here's here's the scenario Here's the choices. I have the learner chooses perhaps subpar response. This is what the answer they get There'll be some feedback in there that I'll explain in a second Here's then the next choice and so on but being able to see it in Columns allows you to adjust Things so you can get them back on track, right? So that they don't just have to exit and say well uu fails. Go just attempt number two and try this again Okay, so those columns could quite get quite long until we get them to the ultimate goal Now with the feedback on this with the feedback on this when you're sitting there with your With your doing the discovery session sorry with the smas see unlike you I haven't had so yet I'm still like her so when you sit down with your smes and you're determining what those errors are and those mistakes are you're obviously creating the objectives right the learning objectives at that time and the outcomes and results that you want to see and based on those outcomes and you Results you want to see your feedback would flowed from that so is if it's perhaps in the first instance The person says good afternoon. My name is Jane what brings you to ABc golf club today smiling and friendly and That's great the person then that's what they choose the next consequence is hi. I'm Amanda I would like to become a member so in terms of the feedback. It would be you know great job You greeted in an appropriate fashion you use your name you smiled and you asked the question Right so that's reinforcing that perhaps though if they did subpar the feedback would be It's great that you you you know introduced yourself and asked the question perhaps you need to You know show a bit more enthusiasm and be a bit more facially friendly or you know use your nonverbals better, right? so In this instance if you have those those bits of feedback or at least the attributes of the feedback you know friendliness? Greeting things like that you can just in the feedback to the learner in your Document and later on you Would you would flush that out you could just put you know? One two three and four if those are the attributes that are being touched upon in this in this area Or the learning outcomes yeah Okay, I'm conscious. I have about ten minutes, so So the last part or maybe five minutes the last part is I wanted to give you some examples in some food for thought right mostly to Spur creativity These aren't from my work. These are were other work that I found that I really have a lot of respect for and like but I'm going to play video. Hopefully this will work. It's only about three minutes To create a learning that's genuinely engaging you have to see things differently and I think that with great Intent you disconnect from the status quo, if you never change traditional elearning, then what you really design is kind of shallow But when you're willing to change things then you open up a whole new world of engagement Our comic style model is bill for the very highest levels of engagement. It's Incredibly captivating and yet, remarkably performance focused is without a doubt the very best interaction we've ever built We focus on the features that matter most the learners and we made profound discoveries for the first time we're bringing scenario-based Storytelling the elearning. It's the most effective strategy to keep learner interest at all times With the focus on story and visual communication learning becomes clearer you get your point across without a great deal of text You immerse the learner in an environment, and they feel an extraordinary level of autonomy which in itself propels motivation It's deeper engagement than instructor-led training Beyond storytelling the comic style is really meaningful to the learner we knew that Context-sensitive Feedback was a key part of driving performance context helps you frame the learning and Understand how concepts can be applied in the real world when you combine that with the power of character? Narrative patterns and authentic dialogue you end up with a learning events us incredibly thought-provoking Creating elearning that's powered by visuals is amazingly fast because we adapted to illustrations We have three agile iterations with a streamlined process the comic style model helps you deliver engagement driven elearning in as little as two weeks This is a thousand times more efficient than starting from scratch or an empty campus Comic-style elearning would seem to be a complete contradiction It's built for extreme levels of engagement, but at the same time It's remarkably transformative To create it we rigorous the question the ways in which D learning was designed and built in the past We've been able to optimize corporate training to take full advantage of Elin and the results have been simply amazed Scenario-based interactions in our comic-style model is a total game changer for learners no other elearning comes close to this type of engagement With the comic-style model we set up to design something extreme and this led us to rethink everything about her process Everything about what's essential to be learning and that meant we could design as a very best experience for all learners Ok so I don't know if you picked up in some of the key words there, but they were talking about autonomy They were talking about the story they were talking about obviously learner engagement as it's traditionally defined and In she's right, and I only have a few more minutes. So I'm going to quickly go through one quick example here there here's another example of elearning that was done with still photos or sketches and Some audio, so you had the the characters the casick characters now the advisors now I kept talking about this advisor thing so you can have a scenario. Where you have? two Advisors Credible Advisors right to the learner and They can listen to the advice that each of the advisors would give or give the learner based on the situation Before they go, and then make a decision, okay? And that's just an extra bit built in there and usually those advisors might have somewhat contradictory advice So it's not so obvious what choice to make and they actually have to learn how to use their brain and figure out What would be the best option there, and so this is kind of what this would look like or it does look like the choices made consequences then transpire Okay, I'm just going to skip ahead. So on the slides when you get them. There are links to these there I've made them bitly link. So they're a lot easier to to do so just quickly in summary I make sure you're focusing on designing the experience Creating the conditions for the intrinsic motivation to both ignite and emerge with your Learner's Collaborate closely with your subject matter experts. They are part of your team in this endeavor Be meticulous be sure that the questions and responses really match the goals and the outcomes that you're trying to achieve Have some sun and get creative, so I'll leave you with this quote by Sir, Ken Robinson Who have a great deal of respect for all you can do like a farmer is? Create the conditions under which the learners will begin to flourish Thank you for your time this morning. Have a great rest of the day 