 Alternative to Guardianship and the Promise of Supported Decision Making. The American Civil Liberties Union and The Center for Excellence for Developmental Disabilities at the University of California-Davis Mind Institute have created this series of videos to help individuals with disabilities, families, advocates, lawyers and doctors understand some of the dangers of guardianship and conservatorship and the potential promise of supported decision-making. If you watched this series you've already seen Jonathan Martinis' introduction to supported decision-making as well as the five concerns about guardianship and conservatorship. In this, the third video, we will provide more concrete information and examples of what supported decision-making is and how it works. The final video in this series is a step-by-step guide to implementing supported decision making. What Supported Decision-Making is and Why it Matters. Supported Decision-Making is an alternative to guardianship that allows a person with a disability to choose trusted advisors to help the person understand, make, or communicate their own choices. While people under guardianship have someone else making choices for them, people using supported decision-making have people helping them make their own choices. Supported Decision-Making avoids many of the problems of guardianship. Supported Decision-Making is a philosophy that allows trusted supporters to provide support to people to make their own decisions. People are experts in their own experience. And people do best, and thrive, when they have control over their life and when they can make choices. People with disabilities, including people with intellectual disabilities and cognitive disabilities, are no different than anybody else. We all want to make decisions for ourselves. Sometimes supporters can provide useful information, but they don't always know what's going on on the inside, they can only go by their observations. So with supported decision-making people can tell what's going on in their own lives and what their own priorities are. Many people are already engaged in Supported Decision-Making relationships even if they don't call it by that name. So, Christopher, we've known each other more than 10 years, I've been your parent for 10 years, and you came up through the foster care system. And so what do you like about being an adult and being able to make your own decisions? Well, for one you could actually choose the people you feel that are in your team. And you know, that are really there to support you and not take advantage of you, unlike foster care system. Colleen Sonneborn, an attorney who handles guardianship sand conservatorships, had a client whose family was seeking the conservatorship. After meeting with this proposed conservatee, it was clear that she had the ability to engage in alternatives to a conservatorship. Eventually, both of the parents decided to withdraw the petitions and chose to go with these alternatives that were available to them and to their daughter. It also put the power back in her hands to make decisions where, if the conservatorship was established, the parents would've been in control of decision making things such as what her education would look like, what her social and sexual contacts would be, who would have the ability to make health care decisions for her, and financial decisions, and contracting. So with supported decision-making, you can get support to the decisions you need support for but if you can make your decision and don't need support, you can do you can make decisions on your own, without support, if you don't need it. And most people with disabilities can make some decisions, but not others, at different points in time. Who can use Supported Decision-Making? Supported Decision-Making is a good option for people with a wide variety of disabilities. People with disabilities who need assistance and understanding, making, or communicating choices, but who can, with help, make decisions themselves are good candidates for supported decision-making. Making a choice means understanding your options, the risks and benefits of each option, weighing them against each other, and communicating a choice. People can have difficulties with any part of that process. Sometimes people need support to understand their options, or the risks and benefits, sometimes people need support to weigh them against each other, to help understand how to how that process works, some people need help with communication, so that they can communicate their choices. Types of Support -- Help with Understanding and Communicating Information. A supporter can provide a broad range of support to an individual with a disability. A supporter might provide information to a person with a disability, such as simplified explanations or research. A supporter might also help a person with a disability express their choice, or ensure the choice is understood and respected. Sometimes when I'm explaining what supported decision-making is to a doctor, I use the example of a cultural broker or a language translator. The person is there to provide support, to support the communication, to make sure that things are understood. But they're not there to take over your relationship with your patients, or to make decisions for them. In my view, I think my son is now matured enough, and understands his decisions and understands explanations, that he would be a nice candidate for supported decision-making. His doctors feel that they can explain to him in a way he understands, and that he can actually give consent, because the impression that they give me. And so, with just the additional explanation from a person there who understands his language, to clarify the meaning of any jargon, or put it in language that he understands. With that kind of help, I think he'd be very capable of deciding what he wants and doesn't want. Types of Support--Identifying Options A supporter might help a person with a disability identify and consider their options. Rachel really enjoyed working with the realtor. And that was another way that was a great relationship with finding the right realtor. He enjoyed working with her. He enjoyed working with Rachel and Rachel probably saw 8, 9, 10 different apartments and she gave--you gave Jason a lot of feedback, right? When when you were-- he would know right away whether you liked it or you didn't like it. Types of Support -- Evaluating the costs and benefits of the options The supporter could provide advice, help the person make list of pros and cons, and remind the decider about their values and preferences. I was like, "oh my god, I don't want to live down there, it's disgusting down there. 6th street?" And she was like, "look, weigh the pros and cons. It's going to be an accessible building. It's gonna have roll-in showers. So think about it. You can't take a bath now, you have to take bed baths, even though this is a better location, at least you be able to get in and out of your apartment by yourself." When the place opened, we went down there to look at the apartment and see which one we wanted, and I was like, "ok, i'm not going outside at night, this is sketchy." But I could live here. And so that's been since '97. Claudia nudges me in the right way, and gives me her input and I listen. I might not necessarily act on it, but I do listen. Types of Support-- Providing Reminders and Help with Appointments. The supporter might help the person with a disability set up, remember, and get to appointments, meetings, or work. The supporter might also attend meetings and appointments with a person with a disability. Like this weekend--I got to put it on iPod--I just got three tickets go to the River Cats, this weekend. So you gonna put on the iPad on your calendar so you remember? Yep. Rachel when you came to visit us last night, did your staff help you put your allergy pill in a baggy for you? yeah so they give you a little bit of help but then you remember to take it, right? Types of Support--Communication The supporter might also provide communication support, making sure the person is enough time to think about and make a choice, and that the choice is understood and respected. When does it make sense try Supported Decision-Making? Supported Decision-Making is a good alternative and a less-restrictive alternative to conservatorship and should be considered by the courts and lawyers prior to bringing any petitions for conservatorship. I think supported decision-making should be the first option that that parents, families, and individuals with disabilities start thinking about as they're nearing 18. And I think that all of us who support young adults, teenagers, and young adults in that process, should be knowledgeable about supported decision-making, we should know kind of what the process is, who can help them develop and walk through how to make that decision. And rather than having it having the choice initially be presented as, "well, most people choose conservatorship or guardianship, there's this other thing called supported decision-making." I think we ought to flip that around and start with, let's think and talk about supported decision-making whether that might fit for you and your family. Supported decision-making is simply a way to describe how everyone makes decisions every day: getting information and advice to make our own choices. Supported Decision-Making will look different for everyone, depending on their preferences, needs, and abilities. The types of support and who provides the support, will also change over a person's lifetime. We hope this video has given you an idea of what supported decision-making looks like. The next video will take you to a step-by-step guide to implementing supported decision-making.  