  ELISE: What's that? I don't know how to use it. All right, I'm Elise, and I'm in the clinical grad program. HEATHER: I'm Heather. I'm in the experimental psychology program here. ELISE: I don't know how to use that. HEATHER: OK. I'll click for you. ELISE: All right, so we're going to talk a little bit about the different [INAUDIBLE] in psychology today. We're mostly going to focus on clinical and experimental just because they are the programs that we're in and we're most familiar with. But we're also going to cover a little bit about what masters level qualifications qualify you to do as well. So clinical, most people associate it with therapy. But that isn't the whole job, and you can take a clinical psychology PhD in lots of different directions. But if you do want to be a therapist, there are some considerations when you're deciding whether you want to take a PhD path or a masters path. So the first thing that you want to be really thinking about is how long do you actually want to be in school. Especially if you just want to do therapy, maybe a masters program in social work or counseling might be more suited for you, especially if you have no desire to do research. That takes about two years as opposed to five years plus more if you down a PhD route. So again, do you want early [INAUDIBLE] therapy, and also, what kind of clients do you want to see? So the difference between the clients that a clinical psychologist might see versus a social worker or counselor, is that a clinical psychologist is going to see more clients with actual pathologies. So it would be more serious mental illnesses, and actually diagnosis of major depression, OCD, various other anxieties. So what is-- I think I'll cover a bit more of that later. HEATHER: Sorry. [INAUDIBLE] ELISE: All right, so or there's the option of doing research in the clinical area. So if you are really interested in research, and you're considering a career path in academia or in another [INAUDIBLE] facility, you want to be starting to think about what your research interests actually are. So if they do fall in the more clinical side, that might-- pardon me-- be more to do with particular disorders, behaviors, actual therapy and treatments, relationships. It's really, really broad, health psychology. But they're a little bit different compared to if you go down an experimental path, which Heather will cover later. And do you want to do research all the time, or do you want to do clinical work and research, or if you hadn't made up your mind yet, [INAUDIBLE] might be a better way to go because it does have more options and more ability to move around. All right, so if you do decide to go down a PhD road, that could be in clinical psychology, or counseling psychology, or school psychology. There's lots of options. I'm going to more talk about clinical and counseling psychology because I know a little bit more about it. So the actually PhD program is about five years if you don't come in with a masters. Most PhD programs, you'll get a masters during your PhD. You can come in with already a masters. And that might cut it down to four. And then you've got a [INAUDIBLE] internship. And then you've got post doc as well, which will be one to two years. So it's not even just the time that you're here at school. PhDs do have both research and clinical training. So again, if you don't like research, a PhD just isn't for you. And most programs, if you walked in and said I just want to be a therapist or just do clinical work, they're going to tell you that a PhD isn't the right [INAUDIBLE] for you. It is needed if you do want to work in a university, or an academic setting. They will [INAUDIBLE] PhD qualifications. Both clinical and counseling psychology will get you registration as a psychologist. However, they generally see slightly different kind of clients. So counseling, they go for more of a strength-based focus, whereas clinical psychology is more of a scientist practitioner model. And counseling psychologists are more likely to see people for more adjustment issues, and also find a path in life, and that sort of thing, as well as pathologies. It's usually [INAUDIBLE] tradition where you're in a stipend. The stipends are not good. Prepare to be poor for a really long time. And there are a lot of options where you can work with a PhD. So once you get licenced as well, you can be in hospitals, [INAUDIBLE],, clinicals, private practice, universities, research centers. It's varied depending on what your interests are and how you've guided your own training through your program. OK, so masters level, I had to ask a lot of people about this because I'm obviously Latin American, and things are different here as well to where I come from. But it's usually two years. You can get a masters in clinical psychology. Most people use a masters in clinical psychology as a stepping stone to a PhD program. And most masters in clinical psychology advertise themselves to prepare you for a PhD. They can be used as a pathway through counseling licensure, or to be a psychiatrist, which is someone who might do assessments in schools and stuff. But they still need to be signed on by a licensed psychologist. And some research roles, so lab managers, research assistants, things like that that you'd [INAUDIBLE] to calling yourself a psychologist [INAUDIBLE]. Social work and counseling masters programs, they are mainly going to be focused on training for clinical work and out in the community. There's a lot of practical placements and things on them, and they will lead to becoming licenced professional counselor, or a licenced master of clinic or social worker. So with those, you can work in-- in some states, you can work in private practice. But you're going to work in a lot of government agencies, treatment facilities, hospitals, things like that. It is a less competitive way to go. PhD application process is intense. And I think [INAUDIBLE] going to cover that a little bit later. And usually, it's not covered under any kind of tuition labor. So it is going to cost money generally. And [INAUDIBLE]. HEATHER: OK, so experimental psychology. It's a fun part of psychology that doesn't talk about people's problems. You don't have to listen to people complain. It's super awesome. So there's two routes you can really go in experimental psychology. The masters level doesn't really get you very far. But you can get a masters of arts or a masters of science either in general psychology or experimental psychology, [INAUDIBLE] psychology, developmental psychology, social psychology. All these fun things we'll talk about pretty soon. Also, if you don't know me, I talk very, very fast. It's just who I am as a person. Sorry. But these are typically terminal type programs. So your master-specific programs, there's really no option for you to continue on for a PhD. They want you to get your masters, they want you to leave. And doing so, they also charge you for that program. So unlike PhD programs, you don't get tuition waivers, and you don't get [INAUDIBLE]. You have to go get a big girl job or a big boy job while you're doing it. It can take anywhere from two to three years to complete it depending on who fast you do your research or how fast you do your masters thesis. But again, mainly it prepares you for the PhD program. There are a few jobs available if you want to stop at this level though. For example, you could be a research assistant. So you can hop in any job that pays more than minimum wage and start being a research assistant. You can also be a lab manager. You can also go into market research with advertising, stuff like that, really cool, fun stuff. You can also, at some community colleges, you can actually teach. Universities probably won't have you be a teacher. But you can do it at community colleges with just a masters degree. But the fun part, the part that really just beats you down and takes all of your life from you, is the PhD program, so approximately four years post bachelor. I know it's confusing. You guys are like, why? You should have a masters before you go into a PhD program. It's not really the case. You can go straight from a bachelors into a PhD program, and you get your master along the way. So two birds with one stone there. You don't have to spend two or three years elsewhere, spending money, et cetera. But if you do come in with a masters, note that it is not half a PhD. So you still have anywhere from two to four years to complete that. So masters is not half the PhD. Try to shoot for the PhD duel program. And these are very, very competitive programs. Most universities, the acceptance rate is 3% [INAUDIBLE] applying. So it's very, very competitive. In fact, I don't know if anyone's going to tell you about this later. But the APA puts out a book every year that lists all the graduate programs. And it tells you their acceptance rates. And it tells you what they're looking for when you apply, how many people get jobs afterwards and all that. But check that out, APA [INAUDIBLE].. But when you go into a PhD program for experimental psychology, you work with a very specific advisor. So when you're applying to these programs, you want to look for someone who's interested in doing the same things that you want to do. So you basically work under them, and they train you to do the research in that specific field. So it's not just the university itself. It's the exact advisor you want to work with, and you need to work for. Usually, if it's a reputable program, you won't have to pay for your PhD. They will give you a tuition waiver. If you're out of state, they'll give you an out-of-state tuition waiver. They do give you a stipend, which as she said, they're not that great. But it's enough to live on if you like boxes and stuff like that for a house. And stipends are going to depend where you live. Some universities offer, say, a $30,000 stipend, which sounds great. But the cost of living there is so high that that $30,000 doesn't really do you a whole lot. Other programs are around $10,000, which wounds horrible. But if you think about the rent in that area, you have to look at [INAUDIBLE]. Anyways, I digress. But many experimental programs are more focused rather than broad. Here, at Ole Miss we have just the experimental psychology. We have cognitive within that, we have social, we have developmental, we have [INAUDIBLE] science. It's all housed underneath one degree type. So instead of getting a specific degree, you're getting the experimental degree. But other programs, they have the specific cognitive programs, or specific social programs, or a specific developmental type programs. So those are just more focused on those areas rather than doing research in general. So for example, cognitive psychology, hopefully all of you know what cognitive psychology is at this point. But it's the study of thought, basically. So you could do memory, intelligence. Creativity is also underneath cognitive psychology. Social psychology, you're focusing more on social interactions of other people. So you're looking at the situations rather than the individuals necessarily themselves. Developmental psychology, studying children, how they develop. And this may even go into older age, gereopsychology is an actual thing too. Quantitative psychology is my favorite. In fact, the reason I'm here is because my program decided no longer to do quantitative psychology. It's the coolest one out there because you do statistics. You literally get to call yourself a psycostatitian. Come on. It's pretty awesome, right? But it's a very lucrative career, because then you can actually help people do design and do statistics, whatnot. But not a lot of programs have this. Then we have industrial organizational type psychology This is focused more on the workplace, or even in advertising and marketing. So if you're interested in how people interact with each other in work environments, this would be the route you would go, probably one of the highest paid psychologists out there. Yeah, so their programs are very, very competitive to get into. Then my other favorite, behavioral neuroscience-- I have a degree in one of these-- this is where you can actually work with brains. So you relate things that are happening inside brains to behavior. You can work with rats. You can work with humans, not at the same level you work with rats. But you work with chickens, a whole bunch of other fun things like that. Behavioral neuro is really cool. We actually have a [INAUDIBLE] minor here. You guys should check it out if you're interested in that. Forensic psychology, everyone gets super excited about forensic psychology because we watch too much CSI. We think we're going to profile a bunch of serial killers to be awesome. That is not forensic psychology. Forensic psychology, you actually work with the government, you work with officials, you're expert eye witnesses for court cases. But if you want to actually psychologically profile people, you need to get a degree in law. That is not forensic psychology. My little sister is so sad about that. We also have health psychology. So you could actually work in hospitals, in certain types of communities focused on health, and how that relates to physical well being. Educational psychology, it's also known as school psychology. Your school counselors, advisors, you could do those things with that degree. But there's a whole bunch more, a ton more different types of psychology out there. While I was researching some stuff for this presentation, I found out there's a thing called aviation psychology, where you actually study sensation, perception, or pilots specifically, so aviation psychology. Cool. Basically, it there's a thing, if it exists, there is a psychology for it, and you can go in and do that. So what would you actually do if you got one of these degrees and you studied in one of these fields? Obviously, the first thing is going into academia. You teach, you conduct research. So you'd actually be a professor at a university doing those things. Sometimes, some universities, they'll specifically hire you just to do research so you don't have to teach. Some other universities will specifically hire you just to teach and not do research. So if you're not on the research game, you can still teach, you just have to find the right place. Research centers, where obviously-- guess what-- you do research, right? Yes. So you could work for private research centers, where they have a goal in mind, and your job is basically do what they what you do so you can find these answers for them. You can also go into government, again, doing research. You'll see this is a common theme. But you could do program development for schools. You could do program development for other types of things within government. Again, you can also be expert witnesses. So you can go up there and say eye witness testimony, probably not a good thing. Don't use polygraph tests, not a good thing. There's another route. And then you can go into private business. And the private sector is really where the money's at. If you're all about the money, and not the love of the research, the private sector is for you. Of course, you'll do research, but you can also get into some marketing. So when Wal-Mart decides where we're going to put things on their shelves, they call someone who has a degree in this. They say, what are people most likely to do when they walk into a store? Well, they turn right, right? It took a psychologist to tell them to put all their junk at the counters on the right side. [INAUDIBLE] Anyways, that's all the fun stuff you can do. Again, if it exists, there's a psychology for it and there's a job for it. [INAUDIBLE] [INTERPOSING VOICES] ELISE: I was going to add as well, that on the clinical, you can specialize in nearly all of those things as well. So it is what kind of clinical psychologist you want to be, what kind of experimental psychologist you want to be, and what direction you want to take that in. And yeah, so basically, there are a huge amount of career options, and the common perception in the public is that psychology is therapy. And that is not the case. So having a good think about-- yeah-- what direction you want to go in, and what kind of career you want, and also what you enjoy about studying psychology. And if you follow that, you'll find where you want to be. Any questions? AUDIENCE: I have one. What program were you in? ELISE: I'm in the clinical [INAUDIBLE] for PhD. AUDIENCE: OK, so is there a tuition waiver [INAUDIBLE] PhD? HEATHER: We don't offer a terminal masters program here. So if you come in here, it's either PhD clinical or PhD experimental. ELISE: So some people come into the PhD programs with a masters from somewhere else. Ole Miss does not offer it. But for example, the University of Memphis has a terminal masters program and they have a PhD program. AUDIENCE: So the masters program, [INAUDIBLE] it's masters in clinical [INAUDIBLE]?? ELISE: It's masters in science. Yeah. AUDIENCE: But it's through the education department? HEATHER: It's not through psychology. It's through the education department. ELISE: Oh, OK. Yeah. So that's a masters in counseling. And that's through the education department. AUDIENCE: So that [INAUDIBLE]. ELISE: Yeah. And they do have a terminal masters. And then they also have a PhD program that I think you can get through masters [INAUDIBLE] as well. Different [INAUDIBLE]. Any other questions? OK. 