   NANCY MACKLIN: Good evening, everyone, thank you for joining us this evening. Before we get started, I would first like to thank Cindy Thompson of Alternative Communication Services, ACS, for providing captions this evening.   I hope everybody has their caption pod open and ready to go. If not, let me know, and I'll type to you how to get captions. Control F8 on your keyboard will get you there quickly or the CC button on the top of the video screen.   We are very honored to have Dr. Christine Cassel with us this evening. She's the president and Chief Executive Officer of the National Quality Forum. And she's 1 of 20 scientists chosen by President Obama to serve on the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology , 12 00:00:59,488 -- 00:01:08,500 otherwise known as PCAST. And, she's the co-chair and physician leader of the PCAST report to the President on the future directions of Health Information Technology. Thank you, Dr. Cassel, very much for presenting this evening, we very much appreciate it.   I'll let you get started. I just want to remind people that if they have questions for Dr. Cassel please post them down in the chat box in the lower left of your screen. When Dr. Cassel is finished running through her slides I'll go ahead and voice those questions to Dr. Cassel so she can answer them and everything is part of the CART transcript. Thank you again, Dr. Cassel, welcome and I'll let you start.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: You're welcome, Nancy, it's a pleasure to be here. Can you hear me okay?   NANCY MACKLIN: Yes, I can.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Great; great. Well, it's a pleasure to join this group. I really appreciate the opportunity to do that. And what I will do this evening is to just go through sort of a high-level summary of the PCAST report, and then welcome questions from any of the participants that might expand on some of the issues and some of the areas involved . 27 00:02:20,008 -- 00:02:24,008  So first let me just say that this report is part of a larger piece of work that is still ongoing regarding aging and technology. And this was actually a personal interest of the President in looking ahead as the good news is our society is living longer. And with that come often challenges of some disabilities and some impairments that lead to people to being able to live independently being productive and enjoying quality of life in later years so his question to PCAST was, how can technology help mitigate these challenges and help people be more independent, be more productive;and have higher quality of life as all of us hopefully can live into our later years.  So the context started with the report on aging. That report we anticipate will come out in -- some time late winter -- January or February is what we hope. And it will include a range of issues related to mobility, cognitive impairments, social engagement and connectedness, many things where there are cross-cutting themes. But we thought, and the President agreed, that the hearing issue was so central to all of this and so important that he asked for us to package that report up separately and deliver it sooner.   So that's what you're seeing in front of you tonight.   So the scope of this hearing study is that as I just mentioned, it's part of the broader examination of aging and technology. And we recognize that this issue is sort of risen, finally in my opinion, to the level of attention with the institute -- the PCAST report that it deserves. I should let the audience know that I'm a physician. I'm an internist and geriatrition  51 00:04:48,487 -- 00:04:58,485 so I've spent my career working on areas of aging and working on ways to improve lives for all of us as we get older and clearly, hearing is one of them. So that's kind of my particular focus on this.   We do understand that hearing loss is a very diverse set of issues and conditions that there are somewhat different and importantly different issues for children, for many adults who have unusual cognitive hearing loss or unusual hearing loss, and those with red flag conditions - those that the FDA outlines are explicit explicitly outside the scope of this study.   So the sort of fast track of this study was to say what's the low hanging fruit? What are the things that could happen more quickly that would really help this large and growing number of people who have age related mild to moderate hearing loss?   This is a list of the participants in the PCAST report. Some of them, as you notice with the asterisks, are PCAST members. And some of them are Subject Matter Experts that we brought in to work on the report. And I want to particularly acknowledge this remarkable staff, especially Ashley Predith who worked with us on this and Robert Saunders , 67 00:06:20,632 -- 00:06:26,995 who is with me here this evening.   Let me just stop here and say a word about PCAST for those who aren't familiar with it.   This has been a real privilege for me to serve President Obama and this Administration in this way. PCAST has been in existence for many decades, since World War II. And Presidents use their PCAST advisors in different ways, but it's set up to be independent scientists who advise the President. So we don't advise Congress. We don't even advise agencies of the Government. We advise the White House about questions they ask related to a very broad range of science and technology so everything from energy science, the recent climate agreement, to nuclear weapons, to Computer Science , to geological science, to astrophysics, cybersecurity, just anything that relates to science and technology.   Clearly health care and biomedical science is a part of that.   And so that's kind of the scope of this.   So many of the scientists you see listed on this screen are people with really amazing expertise and experience in Computer Science , 83 00:07:45,519 -- 00:07:55,509 in various aspects of technology and that high reliability manufacturing and engineering.   So it is a really rich group of experts to draw on for this work.   So the first thing is the context. And you know, I don't have to tell you folks about this, but it's very important that the report is framed in terms of this really urgent social problem - that roughly 30 million people have hearing -- some significant hearing loss now. And in the older population, hearing loss has now been demonstrated to be associated with social isolation, inability to get around safely , 92 00:08:37,999 -- 00:08:47,985 dementia, falls, depression, inability to work. A lot of older people need to keep working now as they get older and it's actually better for them as well as for our economy if they do so. But if you have trouble hearing, it makes it very difficult to be engaged in your community as a volunteer or paid worker in any way.   And that just becomes more and more important as people are living longer in our society. And the number of people with hearing loss rises exponentially with age. So nearly half of people overage 60 -- 80% of people over age 80 have some degree of hearing loss. So that number, that 30 million, is a very rough number. It's hard to know the denominator because of something I'll mention in a minute, which is that people are often reluctant to admit it or to seek help. And that's an important thing to deal with.   And so you can see at the bottom of this slide, few adults actually use hearing aids , 103 00:09:43,502 -- 00:09:52,994. somewhere between 15 to 30%. Hard to know exactly what that number is because we don't know the denominator really. But there are a large number of people who either do not seek help with hearing or when they do, they don't really get the help they need. And so they end up not having hearing aids.   What are the reasons for this? Well, the major reason that we found and we did a lot of research and talked to a lot of people and organizations, is the high cost. And many, many people say this. Combined with the fact that most people pay out of pocket. Medicare doesn't cover it. And that most insurers don't cover it.   And so a little commentary from me as a geriatrician for some reason over the years insurers don't see this as a health issue when you look at that data about the association with all kinds of health risks it's really amazing to me that insurance companies and that Medicare doesn't cover it.   But one of the things that's an impediment to that is this high price so it becomes a vicious circle. The government looks at what it would cost for Medicare to cover hearing aids for millions of people at these price tags, this is, you know, $2,400 average per hearing aid. Most people need two . 118 00:11:07,490 -- 00:11:17,487  So you're talking 5,000, $6,000 per person. That's a budget buster for the federal government.   So that's been a real impediment. And then the other thing is that in most modern electronic technology, innovation reduces the cost of the products. We see that with our iPhones. We see that with other auditory technology like music and television and things like that.   But in hearing aids, there's -- hearing technology, there's been innovation. But it hasn't driven the cost down the way it has in other aspects of technology.  Another set of problems include these, and you folks could probably come up with others, as well. But it's really difficult -- so you have a consumer market, particularly since there's no insurance coverage, and it's very difficult for consumers to shop for the best value. When you get a prescription for medication, you can actually go to different drug stores and see -- there are actually different prices that different drug stores charge for a medication. Or an analogy we make in our report with eyeglasses, you get your prescription for your eyeglasses and then you can go to any one of a number of vendors to pick the eyeglasses that you like how they look or they work better or they are less expensive.   You can do it online.   So that kind of freedom of the marketplace really doesn't exist for people shopping for hearing aids.   And for all kinds of reasons, the practice of bundling where the audiologist's services are connected to a specific company or one or two companies and it's all one price. Complex state regulations of who can -- excuse me; who can provide hearing aids. And also we feel unnecessary restrictions on Internet availability.   And then of course there's the social stigma. And my personal view is that that in a way is in part because of the lack of adoption. If more people used hearing aids, it would be less of a social stigma. Same as with eyeglasses. You know now it's kind of fashionable to wear eyeglasses . 145 00:13:46,989 -- 00:13:55,998  And that I believe it's such a common phenomenon that people need help with hearing that we really need to overcome this social stigma.   And then finally the lack of engagement by health providers. It's not just that insurance doesn't pay for it. But it's not -- most primary care physicians don't ever even ask you if you're hard of hearing as part of their screening exam. Or offices geriatricians will do this but they are few and far between so we haven't really included it in part of our health care system if you want to think about it that way.   So that's the context in which PCAST did our work. And we concluded that the problem is ripe for change. That it's really kind of at a tipping point right now . 154 00:14:40,016 -- 00:14:46,990  For a couple of reasons.   One is that there are rapid advances in new technology both within the traditional hearing aid industry but also within the PSAP sector where there's a lot of innovation going on. And as we looked at the Federal regulations, mostly FDA but to some degree the Federal Trade Commission, as well, it seemed to us that a few -- just three or four changes in Federal regulations could give great momentum to needed changes in this area.   And so here are a couple of our conclusions looking in particular at the FDA. I'm going to talk about these recommendations in just a minute.   A lot of the concern with the FDA current regulations is that, well, there could be lots of insidious and dangerous red flag conditions that cause hearing loss. Not just age related, progressive, bilateral, mild to moderate hearing loss . 166 00:15:49,989 -- 00:15:53,989  So you don't want people just getting amplification devices or devices for their hearing if they haven't had a medical checkup to see, do you have an acoustic neuroma, which could be a bad thing. Do you have wax in your ears, which is pretty easy to detect and fix . 170 00:16:10,004 -- 00:16:14,004  Or some other condition that causes unilateral or painful hearing loss or other kinds of conditions.   But if you think about it, the risk of millions and millions of people going without help for their hearing and the kind of medical conditions that I mentioned earlier associated with that, compared with the relatively rare incidents of conditions like acoustic neuroma part of what the FDA is charged to do is to weigh the risks and benefits in any given treatment. And we felt that here's a place where the benefits of opening up the market for hearing aids really outweigh the risks of a few serious conditions . 179 00:16:57,509 -- 00:17:07,490  Especially if there were clear warning signs. It said, if you have any of these conditions, then you should seek medical help.   So that was one very strong conclusion of the report.   The other is that now is really an opportunity to increase access to less expensive technology. And in particular because we're anticipating a report from the Institute of Medicine, I'm very glad they are doing a much broader more comprehensive report that will look at all kinds of different sources of hearing and look at the hearing health environment, et cetera.   And so we felt like this could give some momentum to that study. But didn't need to wait for that study to come out.   So these -- our recommendations are towards these three goals. To reduce cost to consumers. To increase the number of people who use hearing technology. And to stimulate innovation and technology development . 190 00:18:02,988 -- 00:18:07,505    So now you get the small print.   So this is our first recommendation. It has two parts. Now, this is basically taking an analogy with eyeglasses. And visual impairment. That, as you know, for people who have common often age-related presbyopia we call it, inability to read at a close distance, you can go into any drugstore or online and buy readers. And you can try out the different strengths and see what works for you.   And so we do understand that hearing loss is somewhat more complex than that kind of visual impairment. But we still think that there is an important analogy here. So I want to be clear that we're not saying it's exactly the same thing. But that we envision a world where a range of hearing devices and hearing tests, and you can see that in the second part of the recommendation here would be available online and to people in retail outlets such as drug stores. Drug stores may even decide to have hearing specialists onsite if it turns out there's a big enough market for again not the more serious hearing loss. But for the range that we have described as mild to moderate.   And oh, by the way, I want to also mention that some of the correspondence that I've received since this report came out points out that it isn't just older people who have this problem or who could make use of this more open market in hearing and hearing aids.   And so that's definitely true. So I think if what we were described -- if we described would happen the market would be available for any age to access.   So the first recommendation is that FDA should designate a distinct category of basic hearing aids for this non-surgical, air conduction hearing aids intended to address bilateral, gradual onset, mild to moderate and I'll just say hearing loss because it doesn't have to be age related. And adopt distinct rules for devices like this. Because as you know, it wouldn't be without regulation. FDA does regulate over-the-counter devices .   And that they should approve these kinds of devices that meet these requirements for over-the-counter sale, as well as for hearing -- diagnostic hearing tests that would help people identify what kind of device might work better for you and try out the different devices.   The second recommendation is that FDA should withdraw the draft guidance of November 7 , 2013, which is about PSAPs. Many of you may be familiar with this. But it really goes even much farther than our guidance from 2009. And it even sort of says PSAPs not only can't advertise themselves as helpful if you have hearing loss. They can't even advertise themselves as helpful if you have normal hearing and you have trouble hearing a conversation in a noisy restaurant, which is actually most of us , right?   So it puts a lot of constraints on how the PSAP market which is very innovative could get its message out to consumers who could use it.   So as you can see here, we argue that PSAP manufacturers should be able to make whatever truthful claims, as long as they are truthful, about how their devices might be use useful.   And should not exclude people who might have mild to moderate hearing loss from being talked about in that marketing and labeling.  So Recommendation 3 and 4 are for the Federal Trade Commission because this was about 20 a little more years ago when actually the optometrists had the same kind of very close relationship with having to prescribe glasses.   And the FTC got involved in this. And opened this market up with a couple of simple regulations. 244 00:23:00,490 -- 00:23:04,490    One is called the Eyeglass Rule. Which basically requires the expert, in this case, the audiologist and hearing aid dispensers who perform standard diagnostic tests. And this is important. Those tests would have to be made more standardized. To provide the customer with a copy of the relevant audiogram or audio profile at no extra cost. And a form that can be used by other dispensers . 250 00:23:31,497 -- 00:23:40,492  So not locked into some formula that only applies to one company.   And certainly not condition of any agreement that you have to buy it in any particular place.   And then Recommendation No. 4 is actually analogous to a subsequent contact lens rule where FTC defined a process where patients could authorize in that case optometrist or ophthalmologist to give a copy of their test results to somebody in another state or in another organization. So this would do the same thing that hearing aid vendors would be able to obtain a copy of test results from another hearing specialist, if authorized by the patient.   And at no additional cost.   So we comment here that FTC does have the authority to just initiate a change in regulations like this. But they very rarely do so.   They have a lot on their plate. And it just doesn't rise to the top of their list. Unless Congress asks them to.   So here is another place where your organization and other advocates, if you think this is a good idea, could be helpful in going to your representatives and maybe through Congressional request asking FTC to move on this. It would not be a complicated thing for FTC to do.   So in summary, and this is I think my last slide here, that untreated hearing loss is a major public health and social problem linked with many conditions, and also just with the vitality of our society.   And that for a whole range of reasons consumers have difficulty accessing hearing technology because of cost, limited ability to shop. At the same time that we are in the middle of a technology revolution in consumer electronics. And we're not able to take advantage of that.   So PCAST found that a few key changes in Federal regulations could really accelerate needed improvements. And not put public health at risk.   So let me just -- I think that's the end. So Nancy, let me turn this back over to you. And I've been noticing out of the corner of my eye there's some questions there. So I'll let you moderate that.  NANCY MACKLIN: Right. Okay, great, thank you very much. It's a very informative presentation.   The first question tonight comes from a former Board Member of HLAA, Deb Baker. And she has said or asked, has there ever been any investigation of price fixing or antitrust activity in regards to hearing aid pricing?    DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: We didn't find any evidence of any investigation into that. But in this country I think there are some lessons and other countries. But it certainly is the case that if the Federal Trade Commission were to get involved in this market, they would be looking at that. That's a really major focus of their activity on behalf of the American people and the American markets. And it would certainly encourage competition, if nothing else.   NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. Dr. Cassel, I thought the law already required access to one's audiogram. And from my understanding, most audio grams are relatively standard measurements.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: That's interesting. I'm not sure the law -- I mean, I think probably the patient 's rights, the patient's Bill of Rights requires that patients have access to all of their records. Right? It's kind of a general thing.   But we know that that law is very hard to actually implement. That even if you're talking about medical records, it's very hard for people, particularly in electronic records, to get those records .   So that's going to be a changing landscape. And we're going to need more and more consumers to demand their rights here for people to actually do that.   What we heard over and over again from people was that they were not able to do that. Or, you know, they didn't think they could. So therefore, they didn't pursue it.   Sometimes, you know, you can make it such a hassle that people just won't bother.   So what we're urging here is that it really become a norm.   The second part about are these standardized or not. You know, I'm not an audiologist. But we did talk to a lot of audiologists in our work. And several of the people who are concerned about these regulations say, well, you know, it's much more complex. And it depends on what the device is. That it has a somewhat different profile or different signature. And there are all of these other different variables.   Like I say, this is not my area of expertise. But enough highly credible academic audiologists said to us, this could be more standardized . It isn't scientifically impossible to standardize it. It's just that people haven't done that. So that may be, you know, part of the issue.   In Computer Science we call it interoperability. Where one kind of technology should be able to talk to another kind of technology. You should be able to describe them both in electronic terms in the same way.   NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. Ron commented that the price of PSAPs and hearing aids are about the same when purchased in bulk as -- at the VA quoting Dr. Lou Beck in 2015.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: So in the VA the prices are the same; is that what he's saying?   NANCY MACKLIN: Right.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Yeah. Well, you know, we found that, too. We talked to people in the VA. And we looked at some of the markets internationally, too. And these same six companies that are kind of the big six as they call them, sell the very same devices to the VA for, you know, somewhere between 2 and $400 . I mean they wouldn't give us an exact figure.   But the VA has first dollar coverage for every eligible Veteran to get hearing aids.   And the same thing happens in many countries. The National Health Service in England does the same thing. They offer the same kind of hearing aids. And you can be pretty sure that given how careful the National Health Service is about what they spend, that they are not spend spending $5,000 per person on hearing aids. So they are getting a better deal from the same companies .   So that's why we think that opening up competition would really help to make the prices more affordable all around.   And so we're not saying necessarily that PSAPs are better. I actually think people may actually find the traditional hearing aids are better for them.   But they shouldn't have to pay 10 times as much to get that.    NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. Anna Gilmore Hall says, what happens now that the report has been issued what should consumers who support these recommendations do now?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, I made one recommendation about talking to your elected representatives. Regarding the FTC. Or even regarding the FDA. I mean, because I think that is part of what Congressmen and senators respond to is people who are their own constituents. And this is such a common issue.   Every year there's at least one piece of legislation introduced from somebody who either themselves is doing it because of their family. Or they have heard from their constituents. And so far, we have most of those are oriented towards getting Medicare to pay for it. And then as soon as it gets looked at by the OMD, or the Congressional budget office, then the cost is just too high because they go by the current price.   So that's why we feel that, you know, if the Federal Trade Commission and the FDA were to make a couple of these changes, it would drive the price down. And then it would be much, much more likely that we would ultimately be successful in getting it included in private insurance and in Medicare . 357 00:32:58,511 -- 00:33:02,511  So the other thing is -- and again, you know, I with great humility, my father was very hard of hearing throughout most of his adult life so I'm very sympathetic to all of the challenges that people face. But I think the advocacy of trying to work with communities to overcome stigma, that's I'm sure going to be a big part of the IOM report. And I think that all of us somehow in many different sectors and intergenerational contexts and educational contexts can figure out ways and Nancy , 364 00:33:41,494 -- 00:33:51,008 your members are probably much better than me to say what are things all of us could be doing to really help overcome that.   NANCY MACKLIN: That's true; that's true.   I think a lot of our members are very savvy when it comes to technology. And they are very willing to advocate for themselves.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Yes.  NANCY MACKLIN: So I think more people can take a lesson from our members. Because they are very effective when advocating for themselves.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Right.   NANCY MACKLIN: Jan, a new HLAA Board Member, says the PCAST report is exciting for us . 374 00:34:19,023 -- 00:34:27,995  It feels like a window of policy opportunity has opened. So thank you.   How best can we send a message to the FDA? Is there a message that you think would be particularly effective coming from advocates? Who exactly should we contact at the FDA for example?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, you know, I actually don't have an answer -- I mean of an email address that I can give you. But I think we could actually look into that and get back to you, Nancy, and you could you know convey that information to your members.  NANCY MACKLIN: Sure.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: But I do know that a lot of FDA changes go out for public comment when they are putting -- issuing a new guidance or something like that.   So there is a new Commissioner at the FDA. He hasn't been confirmed yet. But he's a really terrific scientist, cardiologist from Duke. Rob Califf. And I think it's very hopeful he will be confirmed. And he's looking at this issue with fresh eyes . 387 00:35:27,998 -- 00:35:37,512  So keep your eyes open. And when if FDA does decide to move on it, definitely you want to get people commenting. Because there will be many comments on various sides of this issue I'm sure.   But in the meantime, I do think working with elected representatives and perhaps with other organizations that you might be a part of.   NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. We'll stay tuned I guess for more information.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Right.  NANCY MACKLIN: And get that out to our members.   Okay Nancy Kingsly has said the dispensing organizations are opposing the PCAST recommendations. How will their objections be addressed?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Who is? I'm sorry; I didn't hear you.   NANCY MACKLIN: The dispensing organizations are opposing the PCAST.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: The opposing organizations. Well, you know, it's very interesting. I haven't been counting. But I would say probably 80% of the responses we received have been very positive.   Including a number from audiologists. Now, some of the opposition has also come from the audiology community and from the industry, the major companies. But you know, even what they say is mostly worry about these undetected medical conditions. And FDA themselves will tell you that they require a medical exam and that the vast majority of people waive it.   So if you do the numbers, you say, only -- let's be generous. Let's say 30 % of people with hearing loss get hearing aids. It could be much less. But let's say 30%. And then 80% of those waive the medical exam. So the vast majority of people who might have these undetected medical conditions aren't going to get seen at all .   And so the current regulation just isn't solving that problem. I actually think as a physician that if you had more people coming in to the hearing system, and you had clinics and drug stores and primary care offices and people would -- a nurse practitioner would look in your ear and see if you had wax, you would actually -- and ask you a few screening questions, you would probably detect more of the so-called red flag conditions that we currently are doing now . And that seems to be the major thing that the audiology community is putting forward.   NANCY MACKLIN: Ken says wonderful presentation. Thank you. I'm wondering if the report will cover hearing aid connectivity to assistive listening devices. Getting the industry to adopt an open Bluetooth standard encourages companies to create innovative assistive listening devices that could directly connect to hearing aids.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Absolutely. You know, not just Bluetooth but we think that that's why I'm saying at this moment in time where we see technology of all sorts, consumer technologies, but particularly acoustic electronics and that whole world is just exploding . And exponentially and so there really ought to be a more vibrant market in these devices. And we ought to see a lot more improvement in them. You know, the way it works with other kinds of consumer electronics is that if the device doesn't work, then it -- consumers don't buy it. And so the manufacturers are really motivated by the marketplace to produce something that's very user friendly and that really works with people.   And this day and age of consumers talking to each on the Internet, it gets out pretty quickly if something is a bad product.   So both driving out the products that don't work and really stimulating innovation in Bluetooth interoperability and other kinds of auditory environmental alterations might work for better kinds of settings. And that they all ought to be interoperable.   So if you have a hearing device, you can just set it in anybody else's loop environment, for example, or in a theater or whatever . That's kind of my ideal of where we ought to be headed.   Ron commented. He said, we did a study that showed that patients are very poor judges of their degree of hearing loss. So how can the patient know if they are in the mild to moderate category as noted?    DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: That's a good question again reminding you that I'm not an audiologist but we have heard from a number of experts in the field. But that's what you could find out from an online hearing test. Or from a hearing test at your local drugstore.   And it could tell you we actually recommend that you go to an audiologist and not buy this device here.   Or you might try this device and see if it works. If it doesn't work for you, there should be a mandatory -- most of these have a 60 or 90-day return policy. And then you go to the audiologist. But you have the chance to try something out first and just see if it works . 453 00:41:43,546 -- 00:41:47,546   But there are ways of developing online and retail hearing assessments. And it's another area where it's a little more -- if it was more common and more people did it, then the technology would develop and it would get better, too.  NANCY MACKLIN: Right. Georgia says I serve on the Rhode Island Commission for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. How can we and our sister state commissions advocate for these findings with the PCAST?    DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: So I guess there's a lot of questions from your members about how to advocate. So I don't want to repeat that too much. I mean I think that people really should be empowered to advocate in every way you can . 463 00:42:39,005 -- 00:42:49,000  So some is with your Federal Government. Some is with elected representatives. And some is probably even with the providers themselves. Let me just say something a little bit sort of chancey here, but you'll understand what I'm saying . 466 00:43:01,521 -- 00:43:05,521   Because I have been talking with friends of mine as I've been working on this report, and you know hearing loss is very common. So everybody knows somebody or has somebody in their family what suffers from this problem. a couple of people once I shared with them what I was learning then they went to the audiologist they said does it really have to cost so much? And I have this information. And they actually started negotiating with them and drove the costs way, way down in several of the cases. And actually opened up a conversation with the audiologist. Because you know, like anyone else, audiologists are scientist s as well as business people. And many of them are locked into this current business style and many are not. It's kind of interesting we have gotten letters from people in the field who kind of said, you know, we're really glad that you've raised these issues and we all need to be talking about it more.   So I think that this is sort of maybe a tipping point for a more open discussion, particularly in the hearing loss community.  NANCY MACKLIN: Dave has said thank you for the excellent presentation. Dr. Cassel. Question, did you discuss the implications of the four recommendations for the viability and future of the audiology profession? I'm not an audiologist. I'm just wondering about the future business model of the profession that serves me.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, I think there are going to be implications for the current business model because we think the current business model is not supportive of a competitive environment . 485 00:44:53,024 -- 00:44:57,024    So there will be winners and losers in this. I think the winners will be the consumers by far . 487 00:44:59,570 -- 00:45:07,008  By millions and millions of consumers and families. And some people might lose some parts of their income or their market share. But I think in terms of audiologists, well trained audiologists, there's not a shortage of need for those people.   If you look at the numbers, and again, the aging population, we need more well trained audiologists and need to be available in many more ways to flexible access to multiple different ways of handling hearing loss not just with one or two different kinds of devices.  It may be that the hearing aid dispensers who are licensed at the state level who are not as highly trained as audiologists may be the ones who moves the market share out of these recommendations.   Or you know, those people may end up going to work with the local retail providers who begin to open up this market. So you could see other opportunities for people who have that expertise.  NANCY MACKLIN: Don says good program, thank you. Has there been any discussion requiring hearing aid manufacturers to fall in line with ADA communication accessibility requirements to provide a T-coil in hearing aids?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Not that I know of. That's a really interesting idea. And you probably know more about ADA requirements in this regard than we do. I mean, it seems like that should certainly apply . But I'm just not aware of that.  NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. Deb has said, audiologists charge thousands in service fees for hearing aids that they can purchase for hundreds of dollars. by the state of California, how do we get the FTC to address this?    DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: So your question say that again I'm having trouble hearing you through this.  NANCY MACKLIN: I'm sorry; audiologists charge thousands in service fees for hearing aids that they can purchase for just hundreds of dollars. This was exposed by the state of California. How do we get the FTC to address this?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, you know, I think in my view is opening up the market which the FTC could do is the way to address that problem because if a consumer can go right next door and get a better deal on the same hearing aid or an even better hearing aid, then that person is not going to be able to do that anymore .   And the audiologists have not -- I mean this model has been in place for so long that it's kind of been an accepted idea that this is just the way it's done. So they will have to adjust their business practices to support a new and more open marketplace . But I think they could easily do that.   One of the things we hear is they actually have to pay the company a much higher number. It's not just -- some experts told us it was the parts that go into the hearing aid are $100. But certainly, you know, somewhere within the range of 2 to $400 is what we have heard from the VA.   So that -- if the audiologist has to pay the company 1500 say for that same hearing aid, then they have to charge you that much. And then they add their own services on top of that.   I actually don't know. I suspect there's a whole wide range of what the business practices are there.   It's not very transparent. That's another thing FTC tried to require. Which I think would be very helpful.   I'm a big believer in the market and allowing the market to work but it's not going to work if it's not transparent and it's not competitive.  NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. David says, given the recently discovered negative health consequences of untreated or undertreated hearing loss, don't you think it would be wise to have studies done comparing the benefits of PSAPs compared to traditional hearing aids before moving in the direction of recommending PSAPs for persons with hearing loss?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, a couple of things about that. One is it would be a good idea to study all of those things and I know Frank Lynn for example at Johns Hopkins is doing some pilots with NIH about a big randomized trial really looking at the medical consequence of some of the things that I talked about before and whether those are mitigated if you address the hearing loss .   That's kind of a hard study to construct if you think about it. But he's a very good scientist .   But we did not feel -- we actually asked ourselves that question. Should we study the comparability of the PSAPs with the hearing aid before we make this recommendation and we looked at the technology involved in both. And we talked to lots and lots of experts . First of all, much of the technology is exactly the same between the two. Some things that call themselves PSAPs or call themselves hearing aids under different circumstances. And the other is that for some people just simple amplification which is what the simplest PSAPs do actually is adequate to get you through the first you know couple or three or four years if you have progressive age-related hearing loss. And the other thing that's so important about that is that if you wait a number of years before you seek help for your hearing loss, then it becomes ever harder to get back to normal because your brain loses the ability to distinguish speech from other things in hearing so even something that's just inexpensive and works for you in most environments is a whole lot better than nothing.    NANCY MACKLIN: Anna would like to know how you think this report will impact the IOM report.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, we don't have any inside information. As you know, the IOM has very strict rules about confidentiality. And and we are as interested as any of you in what this report will say.   What I can tell you is two things. One is we attended every single one of their open session s so we heard all of the same testimony that they heard. We read everything that we could get our hands on that they were reading. So we saw a lot of the same material. The other thing is I gave exactly the same presentation to the IOM committee. And there were lots and lots of good questions but the tenor of the questions was very supportive. So that's all I can really say about that. And like you, I'm looking forward to their report , which I understand we are expecting in the summer .  NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. Ed would like to know if the VA can purchase a hearing aid at less than $400, then doesn't that defeat the argument that hearing aids are too expensive for insurance Affordable Care Act or Medicare to cover? Good point, Ed.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, in my humble opinion, yes, I completely agree with you . The way -- I can't speak to what private insurers do. But the way Medicare works is if you make a recommendation about adding a new benefit, then it has to be costed out by the Congressional budget office. And they do an analysis. And it's required that it be cost neutral overall. So you have to find something else to cut, if you're going to do that. And every time this has been proposed, what the CBO uses as its metric for what Medicare would pay is the market price.   And so you can say to them, well, you know, if Medicare were to decide to pay for this, it would have a lot of ability to drive the costs down.   I mean, I certainly imagine that would be the case. But that's not how the analysts, the economic analysts who do these studies think about it. They think about it as what is the current market price.   NANCY MACKLIN: Richard said your report focuses on mild to moderate hearing losses. Many of which are not served personal by audiologists. Do you see changes in the delivery model for technology appropriate for severe to profound or do you anticipate that people will still get powerful hearing aids only from audiologists and hearing aid dispensers?    DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, first I'm glad to hear from Richard. I have read his articles and very much admire his work and you should know that our committee took a lot of that into consideration .   You probably better than me could answer that question.   We were very conscious of the fact that we didn't have the expertise and time to go into the whole range of questions about the more severe costs of hearing loss and the more severe manifestations so that's why we chose to start with this mild to moderate which is a large number of people.   But as I look at innovation, technical innovation, in other areas, I think that it's quite possible, perhaps even likely that once you begin to really get a vibrant market in this area that there would be a lot of innovation for people who need cochlear implants and who need other kinds -- and there would probably be new approaches actually for people who have more severe hearing loss and more complex causes.   NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. This is a good question that comes from Dana mull veiny my understanding is audiologists can only bill insurance companies only for diagnostic services not treatment or rehabilitation. Can you comment on whether the PCAST committee discussed this. And whether there is any concerted effort to enable audiologists to bill insurance companies for providing habilitative or rehabilitative services.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Couple of points. Mostly just a caveat. That PCAST is the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. Not on economics and not on insurance benefits. (Chuckles).  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: So that's not our purview . 615 00:57:06,001 -- 00:57:10,504 Now as a geriatrician and a person who works in health policy myself I would say it's very hard for the Federal Government to require certain kinds of benefits be covered by private insurance in the exchanges now under the ACA, there are sort of minimum benefits that are required most of that however is still managed state by state rather than by the Federal Government so if there did start to be a trend in that position and there was a lot of public support for it, that's probably where it would happen.   I do know that there are some major large private commercial insurers who are beginning to put a toe in this water. So you know people are understanding what a big problem it is. And I think once we get more and more information about the medical consequences there will be a stronger case for that.  NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. I think we probably have time for just one more quick question.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Okay.  NANCY MACKLIN: Before 9:00 o'clock. Ed has asked is it probable that the dB level of some PSAPs could actually damage mild to moderate hearing loss just as the current music players do?   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Well, that's a good question because secondly something I expect will probably come out of the IOM report is some prediction that we're going to see more hearing loss as the younger generation ages with people who have these tight earphones that listen to very loud sound .   But that's what the engineers in our group said is that's a really easy problem. That's something the FDA could regulate in an over-the-counter product. Just say the decibels can't go above a certain level. And you know create a safety standard.   That wouldn't be hard to do.   NANCY MACKLIN: Okay. I see lots of thank yous . 640 00:59:17,501 -- 00:59:27,501  And definitely some more conversation that maybe we can continue in a future webinar. We would love that.   And again, thank you very much. It was so informative. And we'll stay on this . 643 00:59:33,500 -- 00:59:42,504  And of course any information to report about how to reach the FDA or the FTC we'll report in our e-news and in our communication.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: We'll try to see if we can get you some useful information there.  NANCY MACKLIN: That would be great. Thank you again, Dr. Cassel very much this was great.  DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Thank you. And thank you and your organization for all the good work you do.  NANCY MACKLIN: Thank you. All right, take care. Happy Holidays, everybody.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Happy Holidays.   NANCY MACKLIN: Good night.   DR. CHRISTINE CASSEL: Good night. 