 I'm Andrew Work from NexChange and we are down here at the Citi Hong Kong Fintech Challenge. 280 applicants have put their names in to get connected to Citi in today's contest. And today we have the Furious 14 finalists and I'm speaking to one of those finalists right here from Prive managers. They came today and they presented their Prive Precog solution. This is Charles Wong, the CEO. Charles, tell me what is this Precog thing all about? I thought it was Minority Report. You've got like three visionaries sitting in a tank somewhere. What is this all about? Right so that's a very good question. I mean Prive Precog is actually trying to be that cognitive bank solution for Citi bank and that's a solution derived based on all the work that we've done for Citi bank over the last two or three years. So it's really about understanding client's intrinsic motivations, also understanding their risk attitudes as well as understanding the user behavior and bring it all together into one. So that you can better understand what the client's relationship with Citi bank is going to look like when certain events in the market do happen. Okay how does a Precog solution do that? How do you measure those things? So we have a lot, currently a lot of data being collected at Citi bank but most of the data is actually being very siloed. So you know if you're talking about user attitude. A lot of the information about risk attitudes that the client has is not really not being used to service the client and then there's some additional things such as loss aversion which is not being measured today. So for example why do we even measure loss aversion? Because let's just say if there's a downturn in the market, it does a sudden drop tomorrow that due to some certain events. The question for the bank is who do I call first right? So without that understanding of client loss aversion, you wouldn't be able to know. Okay right sounds good so you're bringing together behavioral economics and technology to provide a solution for Citi and it is the Prive Precog looking to the future. Alright sounds good. I'm Andrew Work for NexChange. I'm talking to Charles Wang from Prive. Good luck in today's contest.  