 - Well, thank you. So, thank you so much for that nice, warm welcome. It's my pleasure to be here. Just want to share a little bit about my background so you know who's in front of you. I started as the Executive Director of the Center for Student Success in August, so it's a relatively new role for me. Prior to that, I worked at Middlesex County College for 16 years. I started on the student services side of the house, where I worked as a counselor for students with disabilities as well as a generalist, working with all of our students for a variety of reasons. And then, I shifted over to the academic side full time in 2007, teaching psychology, and I became the coordinator of our student success center. And also, I served as the Director of our Faculty Development Center. So, a couple of things that you want to pick up from that is that I care about students, I care about faculty, and I get to do the best of both when I get to work with folks like you, helping you be the best you can be, that obviously has a significant benefit to your students here at Ocean County College. Thank you so much for having me today. Today, we're gonna talk about the faculty role in guided pathways. I wanna begin by just telling you a little bit about the Center for Student Success. How many of you are familiar with the Center for Student Success? Okay, some of you. I'm gonna be completely honest. I mean, first of all, it's pretty new. As a faculty member, I'm impressed because I didn't know a whole lot about it. When I was teaching full time, and you're just kind of doing your thing, and you hear some buzz, what's happening around the campus but, you're not fully aware. And the only reason I became aware is I happened to know the previous executive director. And I said to her, "What are you doing? "I see you buzzing around. "What is this Center for Student Success? "I don't really understand what it is." Fortunately, I have much better picture of what it is, now, that I'm in that role. And I want to make sure that you understand what it is, also. Our primary mission is really to support all of the 19 community colleges here in New Jersey, with success initiatives. So, it's pretty broad. You'll see that some of our guiding principles have to do with gathering folks from across the state at events like Lisa described before, and then also helping gather some of the data to guide our actions. So, there's a lot of different principles that are behind it, but by and large, the whole entire center is really getting framed by guided pathways. Guided pathways. I'm gonna ask you to either identify yourself as being, like, I don't really know what guided pathways is, I know a little bit, I know a moderate, or I can get up there and talk about guided pathways. I'm kind of an expert on it. All right, so those are the four-- I won't actually make you come up if you do that, but I do want to ask you just to raise your hand for all those categories. So, how many of you, we'll start at the top, are, we'll say, I'm expert. I know this stuff and I know it really well. All right, how about moderate? Somewhat? Not at all? Oh, good, I wasn't alone. This validates me because when I was in the faculty role, again, I didn't really know much about guided pathways. I heard this buzz, and I'm like, what is this? There's always some other initiative coming our way. What's this one? And what is it really trying to accomplish? Well, the more that I looked at it, and you read that seminal book, and you start to hear some of the key speakers, it's really fascinating or disturbing, I'm not sure which one it is. It's one of those, I guess. But, kind of shocking, I guess, that there are so many issues that, as a faculty member, I had some awareness of, but not enough. So, my goal today is to help you understand how important the faculty really are, so I'm just thrilled to have this opportunity to directly work with you because so many of these things are happening at the administrative level, and the truth of the matter is, is that's not the way it's all gonna work. We really need everyone to get onboard with these powerful interventions that we're going to employ. So, let's talk a little bit what guided pathways is. Well, let's start with the pathways part, first. Pathways is really about creating clear paths because I don't know if you know this or not, but I didn't know as faculty member, students who do graduate, and we know there's not enough of them, but the students who do graduate, are graduating with excess credits. Anybody want to take a guess at how many credits a typical associate degree earner would get? Not 60, I'll tell you that, which is what the typical requirement is. How many do you think it might be? (audience mumbles) 72 68 88, yeah, it's in that 80 to 90 range. And those are the credits, not counting the developmental courses, so we're not even counting all that. That's one of the issues that folks were like, wait a minute, this is problematic because obviously that's a huge debt for our students, a huge amount of time they're investing. And some of it is that they don't really know their path. So, when you think of the word pathway, it's really about clearly articulating the curriculum for students. In some cases, that's going to be identifying some core courses so that they're not all over the map, but that the courses that they take will transfer with them to the next institution, and that are best tied to your discipline. So, I want to talk in a minute about your role in that. But, the other part of the pathway is what's happening in those classes and how can we really elevate the learning that is taking place. That's a part I'm gonna talk to you about, also. And, of course, faculty are at the heart, really, of that. There's no way that you can't be. In fact, at the national level, these are the four pillars of the guided pathways movement. But, you'll see at the national level that ensuring learning is actually all the way on the right, and I said, "No, no, in New Jersey "we're not doing it that way. "We're putting it over here with the pathway." You know I love the teaching and learning piece. It's so essential to what we do. In New Jersey, we've stuck it in with the pathway piece because it's not just about defining their curriculum, but what kind of magic happens in the classroom while they're in the curriculum. So, that's the pathway part. Now, we have the guided part. Students need assistance getting into a major, a pathway. They're often times making decisions without much thought. They're pressured because of financial aid. Many students are changing their major, and that's one of big reasons for the excess credits. So, we need to help our students really do that. And I'm really excited to know about the great work that's happening here at this college, because I have had the pleasure of working with some of your first year experience folks, and they have been doing incredible work. Lisa was not lying when she said you guys have a rockstar thing going on right here. I can spot it because I've been going around to all the different colleges. You folks are really doing that course right, and you're even elevating it further as you continue to really revamp curriculum. Figuring out ways, whether it's through courses like that, through advising, through interactions with the faculty, we'll talk a little bit about what your role is at helping students get on to the path and also stay on the path. Once they chose a pathway to be on, how do we make sure that they stay on it? I'm sure your students are no different that my students. They have a lot going on. They often have many things that are impacting their ability to be successful. And again, you as a faculty member are really able to help steer them and get them right on the right track. That's kind of the backdrop for the center. It's important for you to know that guided pathways is not an student affairs activity. It's not an academic affairs activity. It is an institutional activity. So, in order for this to be successful, you'll hear me talk today about how powerful it is for collaborative work to be done and what that really does produce. How many English faculty do we have in the room? Folks teaching English. Okay, great. I'm going to say out loud that it is not their job and their job only, to teach English. Would you all agree? You folks will agree, I'm sure, right? You need the rest of us to also teach some of that writing. The writing across the curriculum. Things of that nature. The idea here is, is we want to do that same thing. Well, the same thing is going to be true in terms of career exploration and helping students pick a career. If we think that a couple of advisors or a couple of career counselors are going to do that job, and they do a fantastic job. I know some of the folks you got here. You got great people here. They're doing a phenomenal job, but there's only so many of them. So, even though we have fabulous English folks here, they can't take all of that on. Same thing for career. So, we'll talk a little bit about how you can get engaged in that process as well. Now, I do want you to know that this center for student success is not a New Jersey thing only. We are actually one of 13 states who are currently in this network of success centers. And you should be very proud to know that New Jersey was one of the first three to get funding from the Kresgy Foundation, and we started formally two years ago. So, we're in the third year of the center right now. So, I have the pleasure of having jobs for the future, which is this national organization, they serve as our network. So, it's kind of the center for the centers. And they do incredible work. Just had a call with my leads today. I'm really hopeful at helping me figure out how I can best serve all the 19 community colleges. It's important for you to have a context, that this isn't something that's just happening in New Jersey. We're part of this national conversation that's all focused on student success and are really excited about that. Okay, so, let's talk now, now that you have the backdrop for guided pathways, now I want to dive into how important you really are. The research is clear. Faculty matter. Think about an institution. Where is the heart of the institution? It's the faculty, right? You folks are the ones who are with your students all the time. Many of our other wonderful support systems may not get to interact with the majority of our student body. But you folks are guaranteed to be working with our student body. You really matter. The research is so clear that the power of a professor student relationship, the power of the learning, all of that makes a humongous difference in the lives of the students that you serve. The most important message that I want you to walk away with today is that you are so significant in your students' lives. It's really, really important for you to know that. Let's talk about the first part. Remember we started with the pathways piece? And I mentioned to you that we wanna have clear curriculum. So, what does that mean? That means that you folks, as experts in your discipline, we need your expertise. You can't just have someone who doesn't know your area create a map or curriculum plan for your students. That, I guess could happen, but it's not the way it should happen. You would really wanna make sure that you're adding your expertise. With the guided pathways, what many folks are doing is they're taking a good, hard look at their curriculum and, let's be honest, we don't do this all the time. We're so busy, let's just go teach these courses and these courses. If you're in an accrediting institution, then that might happen a little more regularly. But, many times, it really is something that we don't get to do. So, it's a really awesome opportunity for us to stop, reflect, are these the courses that they really need in this curriculum? And then, when there's a social science elective, a humanities elective, how many options are we giving them? Students often get stifled by the huge, vast amounts of choices that they have. And while choice is good, sometimes it's too much choice. What a lot of the national figures in this space are calling it, is the cafeteria style of deciding. You know when you go to a cafeteria and the menu's overwhelmed, or in New Jersey, we've got the diners with those big, ol' menus. And as you look at those menus, sometimes you can't decide what you're even gonna have for lunch. Well, our students are in that position when they have list of a hundred options to take as your social science elective. In one regard, we think we're doing them a favor by giving them lots of opportunities and choices, but in some ways, what we're doing is we're bogging down the advising system because we're having the conversations focus on should I take psych or should I take soc? I'm a psychologist. I care a little bit about this particular example. The idea here is, is that we want to move those conversations from those smaller decisions to the bigger decisions. Like, let's talk about careers and where is this gonna get you? Where are you headed? This is one of the areas where you can come in with your expertise to help a lot of the folks that are working on helping students enter the right path by giving them maps that make sense. Using your expertise to decide, well, maybe these two social science electives are best if you're a biology major. If you happen to be this major, maybe these are. These are things we're telling students all the time, because when they come to you, and you're helping them choose a class, you're not going through all 100 options with them. You're saying, "Well, why don't you pick between "this one, or this one, or this one? "They seem to transfer well. "They also are good in terms of what you need." So, you're saying this already. We all do it. But, why don't we just put that on paper then? And it doesn't mean we have to box them in, but it could be recommended courses to guide them a little bit with that. Identifying those career pathways and what they look like is really essential. But I wanna shift our attention to that second pillar. Remember that learning part? And making sure that we're creating meaningful experiences. When you think about creating meaningful experiences for your students, and really making sure that we have significant learning happening, it's really important for you to focus on the relationships that you have, not only in the classroom, but also outside of the classroom. I want you to do a quick turn and talk, and I want you to turn to a neighbor, and I want you to think about a faculty member who played an important role in your life. Just gonna give you about two minutes. So, just do a quick turn and talk. Who's the faculty member who really mattered for you? Thank you. So, we're gonna talk about those powerful relationships. But my guess is that you were all able to think of a faculty member that had a pretty powerful role in your lives. So, we're gonna talk about the power of relationships and why they matter so much. We're also gonna talk about how we can design some meaningful learning experiences, obviously we can't do a deep dive into that, but we will be offering other workshops and events that are related to course design, so I'll talk to you about those before you leave. And then, we're gonna end, for this module part, a challenge and support mantra. Really making sure we talk about how important it is that we challenge our students and support them, making sure we have high academic standards. You folks can just take a minute to read this slide. It's a quote from CCESSE, so I'll just give you a second to read it. You think about how do you help increase students' success. It happens through relationships, right? You can have whatever program you want. You can have whatever curriculum you want. You can have all of these other things, and they matter, and they matter a lot, but what really matters are the people that they're interacting with. That is so critical. Now, what I want to do is I wanna talk to you about how can you start to build a relationship with students before they even step on campus. Before day one, these are things that you can think about doing over the summer prior to your fall semester. Or if you're teaching a summer class coming up. What can we do as faculty to engage our students and start to build the relationship with them? I love this research by Megan Wilson because it's a very simple, practical strategy that has a pretty powerful finding. So, let me just walk you through this study. Basically, they had college students who were randomly assigned. So, it was an experimental design to either receive an email one week prior to the start of the semester, or not receive an email one week prior to the start of the semester. This was done in a place that has the luxury of TAs. We don't have that, I get that. You're like, we don't have that luxury. But, because they did, the professor was actually blind to knowing who was in which group. So, that's kind of an important part of this study. What they did was, the course went on as usual, but they assessed the students at the beginning and at the end. And, when you look at the result, it's really not shocking. If you put your attention over on the right hand side, you'll see that the students who received the email had a much more positive first impression of the course. But the part that is so intriguing and fascinating to me, is at the end of the semester, the last week of the semester, that held pretty true. Look at how significant that was. We're talking about one small action of an email that has a welcoming message. I think sometimes we forget. You're doing your teaching thing all day long and you forget the power that you have. Small, little actions can have really big consequences. Pretty powerful stuff. Did you know a lot of research predicts success based on the first week? I think, probably you know that. A lot of you are familiar with that. So, I wanna really challenge you to think about what do you do on the first day of class? First week of class? And if we know relationships really matter, how can we really put that into practice to make sure that we are facilitating a great relationship? What if, instead of fumbling with our technology and making sure everything was up and running, we were at the front of the door, welcoming students. Shaking their hand as they walk in. Saying, "Hello, what's your name?" Very small things like that can have such a powerful impact on students. I don't know about you, but when I go to a conference, often times people don't have a chance to do this, and I, myself, am guilty also because you have 10 minutes in between classes, 10 minutes in between presentations, you do gotta go fumble with your technology and get it all set up eventually, but I had this one presentation that I went to, and the presenter was at the door greeting everyone. And it makes a really big difference. So, think about the actions that you take that very first week and how you can try to build that relationship, because the relationship is really what matters the most, especially at the onset of the semester. This was an interesting study done by Wilson and Wilson. They wanted to look at how much that first day mattered and whether tone and friendliness mattered. Now, this is something I wouldn't recommend, because actually. the professor didn't show up on the first day of class. So, you can't do that. I think that's against the rules. (laughs) But, she had gotten approval for this. Because she wasn't there, the TA came in and showed a video of the professor. And depending on what section you were in, you got to see either the friendly video or the not so friendly video. The not so friendly video was just monotone. It wasn't mean or evil. It wasn't anything terrible. It just was more neutral versus being a little bit more friendly and engaging. As you can probably guess, the reason I'm sharing this study with you is again, at the end of the semester, everything else was the same except for that video. That first day experience. The end of the semester, we are having significantly higher levels of motivation and higher levels of achievement. And these are just a couple of studies. This is not an isolating finding, but I'm not sharing all of them with you for the sake of time. Powerful stuff here about how small actions, especially at the start of the semester, really can make a difference. Now, the other thing is is outside of class activities matter. At a commuter school, like a community college, I'm sure your students are very much like mine. They go to class, they get out of class, and where do they go? Home. Or work. But they get back in the car. Some of them go to the library. Some of them go to the student center. But the majority of our students are class, car, class, car. And wherever they need to go, in terms of their car experience. But, we know that when students are engaged, that really increases the academic achievement, and their overall being, and really, their entire college experience. I talked to you about those maps before and what classes. I care about my students and what they're taking in their classes, too. But, honestly, a lot of the really valuable learning happens outside of class through the internships, the service learning opportunities, the clubs. All of those other other activities really matter. And guess what? You folks are the ones that are gonna be able to convince them to do it because you have something called grades. (laughs) That's quite a carrot, those grades. You can actually force some of this. And let's be honest, sometimes we need an incentive. We need a reason. And it's not because we don't want to, it's just that we prioritize things based on what matters most. And if the grade matters and there's some kind of connection to that, you can definitely do that. I remember going, this was in my graduate classes, where we had to go and we had to visit some very, very different kinds of places that were completely out of my comfort zone. I would have never been in those places if I wasn't required to be there by my faculty member and to write this whole reflection exercise as it was linked to the curriculum, etc. And what an amazing experience I had at so many of those different events. I wouldn't have done it without the faculty motivator behind it. And I know our students won't either. We don't want to tax them because we know they're going to work and they have family obligations, so I'm not suggesting that we load it on. But, I am suggesting that we strategically think about how we can structure our classes to guarantee more of this outside of class stuff happening to increase their success. That's networking. That's connections that they're making. Those are really powerful paths to their career. And developing all the soft skills that they need to be able to function well in their career. Very, very important stuff also. It's reflection time. You get to turn to a neighbor and discuss this question. You have about two minutes only, and then we'll move on to the next pillar. This is the hardest part of my job is stopping great conversations. I hate it, but in order to get through the rest of it, I have to pull you back. So, thank you so much for bringing your attention back here. I want to now shift gears a little bit. We've been talking a lot about the power of relationships. And, although relationships matter a lot, they are not the only factor that matter. We wanna make sure that we have high academic expectations. You can be a wonderful, friendly person but if you're not helping them learn the content, that's not doing a whole lot, except for being a nice, friendly person. The relationship part is really important, but I know that that's not all there is. We definitely have to also look at the academic expectations and why they matter so much, and what we do about it. Before students start college, we actually have done a pretty good job at communicating to students that college is going to be more challenging than high school. The message is out. They've got it. They've heard it. So, that part we know. Now, here is the question. I want you to do a quick prediction. And you can turn to a neighbor if you want to, but you're only going to get 30 seconds to a minute for this one. If they're walking in expecting it to be challenging, how many of the students are reporting at the first year, is meeting their expectations? I will tell you that this is not just for community college. The study was done four year students. (audience murmurs) All right, folks, I'm gonna stop your conversations if you're having them, and I'm gonna do a quick timeout for process. How many of you would like to know the answer to this question? Is anybody interested? How many of you would like your students to care what you're gonna say next? Come on, you want them to care, right? Well, prediction is a great strategy you can use in to get them perked up, because the reason you wanna know right now is you wanna know whether you were right. Everyone likes to be right, right? One of the things I use a lot in my classroom is this prediction. I could have skipped this slide, and I could go to the next slide that does have the answer. I will share it with you. You don't have to worry. You're gonna get to see it in a moment. And you would take it in, and it would be okay, but you're gonna be more cognitively engaged when you have an investment in what comes next. And prediction gives you that. Now, I will caution you. You don't want to let them go on too long. That's why I said to you you only have 30 seconds to a minute, because if you let them predict and they're going down the wrong path, we don't want to cement the wrong content in there. So, you have to be very cautious about that. But, it works really well. So, prediction's a great strategy. So, let's go ahead and we'll take a look and then you can decide if you're right or not. Come on, it didn't want to go, there we go. (audience murmurs) See, I always get somebody that's like, woo-hoo, I got it. (laughs) Somebody was right. (audience murmurs) Usually, you always get somebody celebrating that they're right, but in this case, being right is kind of bad, because it's bad news. I mean it's good for you that you got it right, and you know what's going on, but really, this is bad information, folks. I mean, it's terrible that our students are coming in, their high school teachers, their friends, their parents, everybody said college is gonna be a lot of work. They've even gotten the message, every hour in class, you have to study how many hours outside of class? (audience murmurs) Oh, you folks are firm. Usually, it's two to three, but you're going with three. Go for it. I like the way you talk. You can go into any academic environment and ask that question and people can spit out the answer. Two to three hours for every hour you're in class. And yet, you know what the reality is? That is not happening. We are not requiring enough from our students. (soft applause) I got an applause. (laughs) We need to step up our game, folks. We have to step up our game. So, I want you to have that relationship with your students, but I also want you to do this. I want you to raise the bar. I want you to challenge your students, and remember, this data was not community college based, this was college based, so it was inclusive of the four year schools. Which means, that this is not our problem, this is a national problem, really. So, we're gonna talk a little bit about the importance of this, and why that challenge and support model is so valuable. Well, the good news, folks, because it's getting a little depressing for me if we keep talking about all this bad news, is that if you expect your students to do more, they do. Now, not always. I know that. I get that. But, they often will. When you have a higher bar, they will achieve at a higher level. Really important for you to know. They do rise to the occasion. Now, when you think about course design, many of us, and I am sure that there's some of you that are guilty. I know I have been guilty of this myself as a faculty member. I have addressed a course, in what's called the coverage base design method. So, I started at Middlesex in 2000. I was in the counseling area. I had no idea that I was going to be a professor. It was not a goal of mine. I was a counseling psychologist. I was doing counseling and I'm happy doing my thing. I'm helping students one on one and I loved it. But, I'm in a college environment now and they ask me to teach a student success course, so I started to do that, and then someone said to me, "You should really go teach psychology." So, I'm like, all right. So, what do you do to an adjunct, because I was an adjunct at the time, but I get a book, and a sample syllabus. Good. Go, good luck. I didn't know what the hell I was doing. I was like, okay. I go back and think about what I did in my classes, and I shouldn't say this out loud, especially since it's getting video taped, but I think they deserve a refund. My students-- (laughs) It was not good. It's not that I wasn't trying. I just didn't know what to do. And I did what was called the coverage based approach. I looked at the text book, I looked at the sample syllabus, and I'm like, all right, week one, chapter one. Week two, chapter two. This is not the way we're supposed to do business, folks. I mean, it took me a little while and as I became the Director of the Faculty Development Center, oh my. There's a whole field, it's a whole pedagogical field out there on how to teach well. The scholarship of teaching and learning. I was so busy making sure I knew the psychology content, I wasn't focused on the how to teach it and the delivery part of it. So, the idea here is we want to use what's called the backwards design model. (mumbles) key players in this space, and you want to start with the learning outcomes and what are you trying to achieve. And then, how can you best achieve that? So, you start with the outcomes and then you go to evidence. What evidence would show me that they can do what I wanted them to do? Instead of having a paper, a presentation, and quizzes and tests, and the normal things that we would offer, you still might do those things, but the idea is, is you wanna craft and design your course in a way that meets the learning outcomes. So, it's not necessarily the case that you need to have a paper, a presentation, and all the traditional things. Maybe exams aren't even the best assessment tool for your learning outcomes, if you're looking for higher level blooms, climbing up that cognitive ladder. So, the idea here is, is that we want to really think about how do we design our courses. We want to shift away from week one is chapter one. Week two is chapter two. And we wanna be much more thoughtful in how we do this. I don't have time today to go deep into course design, but we will be hosting a course design institute in June, so stay tuned and be on the alert for that information if you're interested in doing a deeper dive there. Now, when you talk about critical thinking, I have created this process of critical thinking. One of the first things is, is that students need to have a content knowledge because guess what? I can be a really good critical thinker in psychology. Take me out of psychology, go throw me into a discipline area that I am not really aware of, like put me in physics, how could I possibly be a good critical thinker in physics? I know how the process works, but I don't know enough content. One of our primary responsibilities, as you know, is to deliver the content to our students, but delivering it doesn't mean they received it. So, we have to do it in a way that they definitely are learning it. And we do that through our lectures, our lessons, our active learning, our readings, our assignments, all that kind of stuff. But, in addition to that, critical thinking is not just a cognitive task. It sounds like it is, but you need to believe that you can do it. Self-efficacy plays a really important role, I think, in critical thinking because if you don't think you can, you're not gonna probably exert the right amount of effort in order to get there. And also, you need to care and commit. You have to have some motivation. Maybe, I think, you know what, I think I can do this math class, but maybe I don't want to. I don't think it's relevant to my goals. Well, we gotta increase the relevancy. We have to make that explicit to our students. They don't always see it. You obviously do, or you wouldn't be hanging out with them all semester. You obviously know that math is valuable, and whatever other discipline you're teaching matters, but we might need to show them, especially in the gen ed classes, when they don't always see that direct connection. Why do I need this class if I'm interested in going into this career path? There's a lot of really valid reasons why, and we just need to make sure we're sharing those. Then, after we have that foundational piece done, we're gonna move up the ladder, and we're gonna do this challenge and support theme. As you give them challenging tasks, we need to also support them in those tasks. Let me ask you a quick question. How many of you ask your students to read something for you? I hope so. I better see some hands up, otherwise that's kind of scary. How many of you have a little bit of problem with, sometimes, the students aren't actually doing all that? Thank you for 'fessing up. I know, I did, too. I'm gonna tell you, this is confession time, something that I did that I am embarrassed of. I would put on the syllabus read chapter five. Then I expected them to come to class and we were gonna have this really great, dynamite conversation and discussion about chapter five. I couldn't wait, I was all ready for it. And guess what? Were they ready for it? No. So, now what? What am I supposed to do? Well, this is what I did and I shouldn't have done, but this is what I did. I said, "Open up, here comes chapter five." And I just gave it to them on a silver spoon. I started to lecture to the chapter, making it even less necessary for them to read. Well, heck, that worked for me. I don't have to read next week. She's just gonna tell us. Why should I sit there at home struggling to read this chapter, if she's going to just give me what I need? So, we can't give them what they need, everything that they need in the class. That's not productive. But one of the major reasons that students are not reading, what do you think the reasons are for them not reading? (audience murmurs) So, there's a lot of reasons. There could be time pressures, it could be that it's challenging. I don't know about you, but I have certainly read my share of chapters and left saying, "I got nothing out of that." Have you had that experience, too? I hope I'm not the only one, please. Good, thank you. I think some of it has to do with our students not really comprehending the text sometimes. So, here are some very simply things that you can do as a faculty member to do the support. So, it's a challenge and support. I can't stop asking them to read. In fact, I started asking them to read more. I went from maybe two or three reading, to maybe two or three, not even always, not reading. They're all reading for me. Why? I hold them accountable for it and I support them. Those are the two tricks. If you hold them accountable and you support them. I gave them guided reading questions. They had reading homework. They had to hand that in. They had to do something with it in class. But, I also supported them. I gave them a preview lecture right at the end of class before they had to go. Like, the five minute version. Think about it like a quick YouTube video before they go and read that chapter. I gave them strategies. Like, go and read the summary first. It's gonna build, at least, a little bit of background knowledge because background knowledge is one of the best predictors whether or not students are going to get something out of reading the text. We want to build that knowledge for them. Get that foundation base really high. So, if we have high expectations and high support, we are going to end up with more successful outcomes. We're gonna do this challenge and support. Lots of different supports that we can provide. So many. I'll just give you a minute to go ahead and read the slide. We don't have time today to talk about all these supports, but I do want to talk about one, feedback, for a minute. How many of you are familiar with Meuller and Dweck studies? Anybody familiar? Okay, a couple of you are. Those of you who are, don't you give the answers away, okay? You shh. I'm just gonna go through this for a minute. You'll have another prediction opportunity in a second. Here's how this study was set up. This is a very classic seminal piece of work here that is talked about everywhere, so, you want to make sure you know about Mueller and Dweck's work. It was done in an elementary school setting, They gave students a puzzle that was of moderate difficulty. So, the first task, I should stand on this side, the first task was that everyone had a puzzle that was doable but challenging. It was designed to create a successful experience. And guess what? Everyone pretty much had a successful experience. So, that was successful. Now, based on what group you were assigned to, and this was an experimental study, so it was random assignment, you got different types of feedback. So, you folks over here, you were told, "Wow, you did really well. "You must be really smart." You folks over here, you were told, "Wow you did really well, you must have worked really hard." And over here, by group C, you were told, "Wow, you did really well." Period, because we need a control group. You have to figure it out yourself why you did well. It's psychology. You have to have a control group. I want you to just in your mind, think for a minute about which group do you think did the best. At the end, pause for a moment, I forgot to tell you an important part. After this feedback came, they were then all given a puzzle that was very challenging. It was designed to be a failure experience. Everyone had a failure experience. Then after that failure experience, they had a puzzle that matched the first puzzle. It wasn't the exactly the same, but same difficulty level. My question to you, when I ask who did the best, comparing that first moderate to the second moderate. So, do a quick prediction in your minds. You can do this one independently. You can share with a neighbor, if you want. - [Audience member] Everyone failed the difficult one? - Yep, pretty much. - [Audience member] That's the idea? - Yep, yep, pretty much. All righty, folks. I'm actually not gonna ask you to share your predictions, but you can see if you're right in just a moment. The effort group is the one that did the best. You folks did fabulous because you were working hard. Let's think about that for a minute. What were they thinking to themselves after they failed? I guess I didn't work hard enough. What were you folks thinking after that test? I guess I'm not smart enough. Smartness is a variable that most people think is not changeable. If I'm not really that smart, are you gonna put much effort in to the task at the end? Probably not. There's been some good research recently that shows intelligence is more malleable that we used to think it was. People are not on to that research yet. So, they often still think that it's not. We have to help them shift their thinking. My control group over here. You guys did a little bit better. You've been doing puzzles all day, for crying out loud. I'm sorry, but it's not refrigerator worthy. The difference wasn't significant. But the part over here, this group didn't even just not do as well, they did worse. And they did worse. This is so powerful because how students interpret their mistakes matters. And guess what? You as faculty get to help them decide how to do that. Not only was it not as well performance on the puzzle, but also the students in the ability group didn't really even want to do the task. So, their motivation was down. They didn't enjoy the task as much. Really problematic. This is so critical that we help our students change their mindset to be what's called a growth mindset. A growth mindset means I can get better at this. I can be smarter. I can work harder. Any of those things as long as they think that they can change it. We want to help our students attribute their mistakes and failures to internal changeable factors. It's not that you made the test too hard or too easy. It's that they didn't put enough time in or didn't use the right strategies. Many times they are putting the time in. I have to tell you, they're just not using the right strategies. They're using the weakest strategies. Reviewing, funny story. Oh gosh, I don't think my son will watch this so, I can just say this. My son was studying for a test the other day. I walk past him and he's sitting at the kitchen table and he's got his notebook in front of him. I said to him, "What are you doing?" He says, "I'm studying." I said, "No, you're not." He said, "Yes, I am." I said, "Absolutely not, you're not studying." I said, "You're looking. "You're looking at your notebook, "and you're looking at it again, "and you're looking at it again." This is called rehearsal and that is not studying. That does not take much brain power. It's not very active, and all it's gonna do is make it look more familiar. Familiarity is not the same thing as learning. "Buddy, you got to get it right. "That's not studying. "Now, if you test yourself on it, "you cover it up and you see can I do that. "You create flashcards, you create quizzes. "Now you know whether you got it or not." We have to give the right messages to our students. When they don't perform well, we need to have a conversation. Okay, I studied for five hours and I should have done better. Yes, you should have so let's talk about what did you do during those five hours? Were there distractions that were multitasking and getting you pulled away? Were you doing the look at it method? Because that's not gonna work. Or, were you doing the test it method? Now my son has caught on to this. I come home and I said, "Did you study?" He says, "Yes, I did." I said, "What did you do?" He says, "I put it down in my notebook, I covered it up, "I quizzed myself to see if I understood it." I'm not sure he's always doing that, but at least he knows what he's supposed to be doing or making progress. Step by step in right direction. The importance of this, I can't overstate, is really helping our students attribute their mistakes and failures, and their successes, by the way, to internal changeable factors. What I love about Carol Dweck is she has this one three letter word that is just phenomenal. How many of you have had a student that said, "I can't do," fill in the blank, math, whatever it is, art. You've all had these students. I can't do. When they say that, here's what you say. Yet. She's got a great one minute clip on YouTube if you want to google it up. The power of yet. Think about what that word signifies. It gives hope. You can't do that yet. I'll give it to you. I'll let you say that. You could just say I can't do it, period. That's not gonna work. That's not gonna fly in my zone. We're gonna step it up. How can we, then, make it possible for you to do this? Here's what people do that are successful at it. Let's engage in these behaviors and activities. Really, really powerful stuff. I'll give you a moment to digest and reflect on what we just talked about, so another quick turn and talk opportunity. So far, I hope I've given you a lot to think about about how important your role really is in terms of determining what the path should look like, and how learning happens and the magic of learning on that path and how critical you are. Now, we're gonna shift to the guided part, which I'm sure you're probably thinking to yourself that's sounds more student service side of the house. And I'm gonna talk to you about how important and critical it is for you as a faculty member to also be a part of it. When we talk about helping students enter a path, how many of you were influenced by a teach or a professor, at any point, to go into a career path? It doesn't have to be even the one you're in right now. Show of hands. Most of us are really influenced by faculty. Maybe you took this class that just wows you. The professor cared so much about it that you just couldn't help but get excited yourself. That's a lot of how our career decisions are made, are based on an interaction with a teacher in the classroom. That's where it stems from. Most people are not going to take a career assessment inventory and figuring out what career to enter. It can be a good useful tool to help students explore options, but that act itself doesn't usually result in a career choice being made. Let's talk a little bit about where are students getting their career information from? Not surprisingly, it's an informal process. I wore the career counselor hat for many years. I did career counseling with students. But it was a very small percentage of students, and even the students who did it, guess what? Many of them didn't come back for multiple sessions. Average one or two sessions for career counseling. And I think it's because it's overwhelming and it's hard. If you really want to explore careers, it takes time. And that's where, I think the FYE class and some other things come into play because we can require, that magic grade element, all of sudden it puts it up high on the priority list. There's something called the serial effect. We do something that's due the next day, and the day after, and the day after. If I have a paper, a presentation, a reading, I have all these things, and then I'm also, by the way, at some point, supposed to figure out what I'm doing with the rest of my life, and what my career path's gonna be? Well, it's gonna fall to the bottom even though it's obviously the more important question. How someone does on one exam is like, this big, versus what career path are you going to choose. Yet, they don't invest the time in it, students. Students are much more likely to get that either informally from friends and also from faculty, who are teaching them. Here's actually a graphic that shows and illustrates the breakdown. Parents and friends are the biggest influencers, but teachers are playing a role here, as well. Lots of different folks are going to influence a decision, and many times it's not gonna be a very formal I'm gonna look at the pros and cons of this, it doesn't go usually down that way. It's usually more haphazard. I know, for me, first of all, this position I'm in right now, I didn't even know existed a year ago. I never saw myself as a faculty member. I never saw myself as an author. A faculty development director? I didn't even know what that was. Those are things that weren't even in my spectrum. One of the areas that faculty play a really important role is even widening the lens. I want you to think about the students who walk into your door. When they start out, and they're five, one of the first things we start asking them is what do you want to be when you grow up. Crumbles, he's a famous career psychologist, talks about how evil that question really is. He says that's a terrible question to be asking a five year old because we know what the answers are gonna be. Policeman, fireman, doctor, teacher, nurse. Something they see. That's all they know. That's the only options they have, so they name them, they rattle them off. They're gonna say those options. And then, they don't really get much more exposure because many of them are still with the same friend group in the same community, so they know what their friends' parents do for a living. They know what their neighbors do for a living. Maybe whoever goes to their church or any other organization they're part of. They get to know those careers, but that's it. So, their lens has gone from this to this by 18. We need it to get wider. We need them to see the possibilities and that's where you can come in and share about the various careers that are your field for them to think about. We can play a really critical role as faculty members in helping students with their career decision making. We also play a very powerful role in the self-efficacy. I spoke before about the the importance of self-efficacy. For many of our students, they look down the road and they grab careers that are here. They grab onto ideas here because this is what their network has available. We want them to grab higher. We want them to reach further, and they can't do that without mentors exposing them, and then they have to believe that that's possible. And hearing stories about other folks that are like them that have done this, and have accomplished this, that can be so inspiring. And you know those folks. They were your past students. They're your colleagues now. Those are some of the most powerful stories. When your sharing, hey, I didn't have all this worked out. I didn't know about this. This is how I navigated it. What we're doing in college is opening and really increasing those opportunities for folks. Being a mentor is so critical. When you think about your responsibilities as a faculty member, absolutely your curriculum matters and you have to make sure that you're getting the learning happening there. But, oh so much more is really needed by our students, and they cannot get all of that from a career counselor, an advisor. There's not enough of those people on campus. There's more faculty than any other group on campus. You folks have the power to make that happen by establishing these mentoring relationships with students and really helping them see their potential and see their options. So, I hope that you're gonna engage with your students. Students who have outside of class experiences with faculty are so much more likely to achieve at higher levels. Very, very powerful stuff. Now, the career conversations that are going on, we do this conversation more with some groups than others. As a university, as a college, you have to think about what is it that we need to do. Here, you can see our full time students are getting more attention than our part-time students. They're not having as many career conversations. So, what are we doing to reach that population? This graph talks about the divid students. Actually, we are doing more with the divid than the non-divid. We're just not having these dialogues. Students are not reporting having these conversations no matter who it's with, faculty, career counselor, etc. The idea here is, is we have to do more. We have to really help our students see what the options are and how important the out of class experiences are. Those networking opportunities that come through being in a club and working with the advisor of that club. What a different relationships you have with the student, than just in the classroom. By doing an internship, a service learning project, things of that nature, really, really matter. The last and the final step is really to make sure students stay on the path. So, once we help them figure out and navigate what a good path might be for them, and, again, I say that's an institutional job, not a career counselor's job. That's everybody's job is to assist in any way. The next thing we need to do is we need to identify when students get off track. And how can we then get back onto track in a pretty efficient manner? Well, the idea here is you know your students better than anyone else. I don't care what kind of technology you buy. You're gonna know before the technology flags it. You could have awesome technology that flags when students are off track, send notifications when mid-semester reports, or early alerts, or whatever come out. But, you know this day if a student's off track. Maybe they look a mess and they're not usually that way and they have some kind of emotional thing going on. Maybe they stopped showing up, or they're not handing in their homework. They're not engaged in someway. You know before anyone else knows. So, our best chance at helping students stay on that path is for our faculty to really do something and take action when they see a student's not on track. It can be incredibly powerful to just go up to a student and say, "Hey, you didn't hand that assignment in. "That's not like you. Is everything okay?" And if everything's not okay, it is not your job to be the counselor. You get them over to the right person who has the credentials to do that, but they're not gonna often go to that counselor maybe without you walking them there, or making a personal phone call for them. This is a mysterious counselor. Who is this person? We trust people we know, and that's why sometimes they wanna spill more on you as a faculty member than they do over in the counseling office because they don't know them yet. The idea is, is that you can identify when a student's off track, and you have the power to really intervene before anyone else can. You also have the power to give them those second chance opportunities, so I'm gonna say to you, I've been doing a lot of reading and thinking about grading, and I'm gonna challenge you with a couple of grading ideas. Does the grade at the end of the semester really reflect whether or not they learned the learning outcomes? If the answer's no, you gotta do something different. What is it and why is it that we don't give our students second chances? One interesting article I read by Taris, he said that we have an equity problem in the world. And I was like, of course we have an equity problem. We have a whole lot of equity problems in the world. But, actually, the equity problem that he talked about was not one that I had thought about. He said we treat undergraduates unfairly. All of them. He says we don't give them enough opportunities to learn from feedback. In an undergraduate environment, it's often a one and done, and that's it. A one and done. You get one chance at a test and that's it. You get one chance at a presentation and that's it. You get one chance at a paper, that's it. Now, I know why that is because, my God, there's so many of them, can you imagine grading that whole stack of papers again the next week? When I get out of the buried stack, I'm just like, (exhales). Thank God that's over. But I'm not saying you have to do that, but we have to figure out what if they get a bad grade on one big assignment, it's over for them. And it's not just over necessarily in your class, they could just turn off, also. Maybe I'm not cut out for college. So, giving them some second chances. Thinking about setting up your class in a way that gives them feedback throughout. I actually now usually do a paper and a presentation. I link the two together, so that they're getting their paper back before the presentation. I'm not redoing the paper because I cannot just do that, but I've given them check in points to make sure they're on the right track, and then I'm giving them the heavy duty feedback on the paper that they then apply before they meet with their group and their presentation. I also do a lot of verbal feedback in class. If you can break them up into groups, then you just give them a little verbal feedback, sometimes 30 seconds is all it takes to get them right on the right track before they spent four hours doing the wrong thing, and then they're really frustrated when they discover they're not doing what you wanted them to. The other thing we wanna do is we wanna build resilience, which is basically, the folks who are resilient, have a strong support system, we talked about power of relationships, and they also are more optimistic. They have that positive mindset. We want to encourage that with words like yet. Language matters. We can definitely encourage our students and play an integral role in that. We're gonna give you a quick reflection and then we're gonna wrap up right after this one. You only have one minute for this because we're very tight on time. So, a quick 30 second to one minute reflection with your neighbor, and then we'll wrap up. Okay, folks, I'm sorry this one has to be shorter, but I like to be on schedule and make sure we end on time. So, I do need to pull us back together. I want to end with a quote. This is another quote about relationships matter. I'm just gonna read it to make sure that we highlight the importance. "Most continuing students indicate that, at some point, "they considered dropping out, "and their reasons for staying in school are revealing. "They almost always include the name "of a particular person - an instructor, a staff member, "another student - who gave the encouragement, "guidance, or support they needed to keep going." You can be that person for your students. I encourage to be that person. Sometimes, by giving them one opportunity to redo something, you have changed their life in a significant way. They are not gonna drop out because of it. Whatever it might be. There are so many things that you can do. I wanna thank you for your time, and I certainly will stick around for questions, but I know some of you have class. (audience applause) Thank you. 