 Good afternoon. My name is Dan cord I'm with a Tom and I have the privilege of with speaking with our three panelists today to talk about How technology is changing especially in the realm of autonomous vehicles connected vehicles and other emerging technologies? Today what we're going to do is each Panelist is going to have about five minutes to talk about what their company is doing in the realm of autonomous vehicles They were to sit down gonna have a panel discussion bring up some topics how autonomous vehicles and land use work together and how where you see that moving toward in the future and then as we're having those conversations We're gonna bring up give you guys an opportunity to have some Q&A with us one thing that I believe and we were just sharing with our panelists before is That as where I bring up a topic, please raise your hands now I know it's kind of tough for us to see hands raised here. So, but if you do have a question, please feel free Interaction is the best type of session and we see that we have a lot of people here So obviously this is a hot topic to talk about So we'll start off and for those who have never seen me present before this is gonna be like a This might be like a church session cuz I like to walk around for a cup for a lot of reasons one I just can't stand still and two eyes have a lot of nervous energy. So this helps me out as I talk So, my name is Dan Corey. I work for a e-comm. I'm out of our Philadelphia office and I have the privilege of being our National I TS which stands for intelligent transportation systems practice lead So we talked a little bit about AECOM for those who don't know AECOM is one of the world's leaders in providing a complete solution Integrated solution and what we what that means is is going from an ideas conception to the planning stage through the design Actually the finance as well To the construction to operations and maintenance is what we like to do throughout the world in all realms Especially in the transportation industry, which is we're all men and there's three main objectives that we look for when we do this one is sustainability making sure that Solutions we provide are sustainable for not just the short-term but for the middle and long-term in that twenty plus year range Second it's linking communities. I think you're to see that a lot in connected and automated vehicles as we talk about this later on that's how we're bringing those communities together by this automation and third after the first two comes growth and being able to grow the community as far as economic development which I think there's a top of that many of you would be enjoying today as Well as showing educational promise as well as personal growth There's a bunch of questions up here that we've been receiving over the past several years about autonomous vehicles How many people here are in the public sector raise your hand? All right. I see about ten. Perfect a Lot of questions that were gained is how do I plan for this? How are our time as vehicles going to affect my city cities such as Detroit? Philadelphia, New York, Los Angeles How do we plan how do we have those policies put together? And one of the things that a comp is put together is a web application called mobile it Excel in the first two here mobile it extraño manned management functionalities combine it with our expertise in planning design and construction and Operations and management and maintenance and create outcomes That will show how the potential effects or impacts of Autonomous vehicles connected vehicles and other technologies make within your city What you'll be able to do is to hop online Click the City of Light Detroit see the existing trend lines that have been put together from the different census data that we've gathered plus other transportation data and plot to show how TVs and navies work together and how they reduce potentially delay How they could change the work force how they can make economic Improvements and the amount of economic improvements to that city And what do we do after that and for me? I'm on the design side of the house where I've done tech and deployments for over the past 20 years So aecom starts looking at this and says one of our first roles is to go in and to improve the infrastructure Vehicles are going to start communicating with one another as they do now connected vehicles and automated automated vehicles shared data How do we improve the infrastructure right now to accept that data? How do we utilize the existing right aways? To lay fiber-optic cable down to transmit that data and how is that monetized over the future and the present? then we start looking at the impacts of roadway design This is how many people know? The distance you're supposed to follow if you're going 50 miles an hour how far should you be to the car in front of you? Five car lengths anyone say one car length where with how many people have five car lengths that they keep? How many people keep two car lengths? How many people are police in this room that they're going to start? Yes, five car lengths so now with connected and automated vehicles. We can reduce that headway that distance between both vehicles because we've now included a larger safety factor because now we've taken the human out of it and the human is is basically Responsible for about 80 percent of the instance. We see on the roadway. So now we have safer platooning vehicles together We don't have to have that 12-foot lane anymore. How do we start really utilizing that right-of-way for the future? And one of the biggest impacts we've seen on this is who was around when we had toll plazas Remember those now we don't need them anymore. And what do we do? We redevelop that land for the purpose of the public or a public-private partnership Hyperloop there's another technology. I just want to talk about today one heard of Hyperloop Okay, so Hyperloop is a magnetic levitation Transportation system by using inline electric propulsion what that does is allows us to move Goods and people at the speed of airplanes on land So there's a distance between Dallas and Austin, Texas about 200 miles Hyperloop will take you through that distance in 19 minutes How does that start changing how we look at? Land use how we can now move Different goods and services faster. How does that change what we need to think about as we start doing more planning? Automate shows I'm going to have the experts really talk about this one But the biggest thing that I see on those is that we're doing that last mile connection and I'll give you an example in Philadelphia, we've got an existing subway line that ends at the stadium of the world champion, Philadelphia Eagles But just south of that about 3/4 of a mile is whether it was the Naval Yard that we that Constructed World War one and World War two ships that has now started that land Has that that a Navy Yard was closed and now we're using that land where we have different companies and corporations having their major headquarters How do we get people from that transit location to that to that location? so utilizing those shuttle services are a way that we can start seeing how to get people back and forth and Then finally my last one this will be a great time for sure. You'll be after me is vehicle electrification and no a-come is not Creating electric vehicle. That's not what we do But what we're working on in the future that we see, is that right now you have about about in 2025 about 10% of electric vehicle penetration in the market by 2035 you're looking at maybe over 30% of Penetration how do we reuse the land for doing electric charging? Yeah static charging right now stations But what a calm is working on right now as a way of dynamically charging as you're driving So those are just some of the technologies that we're doing at a EECOM. We're passing this on to Sharif He's going to talk about what's going on with Ford. Sure. Thank you Okay Good afternoon everybody. I'll do the same thing you were doing so I'll stand here What I wanted to do is just talk a little bit about There's a lot of discussions and and maybe a bit of hype on autonomous vehicles My role at Ford is making autonomous vehicles real and creating a business working with cities on making autonomous vehicles work for both the city and the company and the industry so We're announced in in this case and every company has a different timeline. Our timeline is getting an autonomous vehicle Working in service in in three years from now. So in 2021 What we realized very quickly is there's two different challenges with autonomous vehicles The first one is the technical piece which is very important and it's all the software and the development and integration actually creating an autonomous vehicle that runs Reliably safely in the different areas that we plan to serve You know to run the vehicle the second thing which is equally important is actually the service The city and where autonomous vehicles are being deployed and what are they actually doing? So assuming we have an autonomous vehicle we figure out the technology we figure out everything on running an autonomous vehicle What do we do with it? And how does it integrate within a lot of the stuff that we're talking about today? And what's the landscape of the environment that autonomous vehicles are? working in Reality is I think it's going to keep progressing and changing over many years and I want to give you today just one example that we already started to do and Where we started earlier this year is we said, okay. We we know that to have an autonomous vehicle Level 4 that is we could talk about that later what that means but it's basically no driver in a fleet type service So without a driver There's a lot of things that people do that They will not be available to do or they people be doing something else now so we went to Miami we picked Miami as our first city and we're gonna be announcing another city later this year and What we're doing is we actually start Experimenting and building the business in in Miami and and there was a lot of criteria that went into that including the city and Their how progressive the city is and how they think about their infrastructure and what's going to happen in the future and what they need to do of Course urban environment Center City also some of the suburbs so we looked at at the businesses We looked at the environment. We worked with the city to understand traffic patterns and things like that and then we put in a Terminal a Depot a few miles away from downtown because that's got to be close where we're going to be dispatching autonomous vehicles To do service. So why create? And that's a real estate That's that's a building that we picked and we thought a lot about where that building is going to be What we're gonna do out of that building and there are a lot of things that we're doing out of that building Including servicing the vehicles Dispatching the vehicles Downloading and uploading the data that comes from autonomous vehicles So there are a lot of technical People support people that are there in the building To do that, of course that required call centers Now we're gonna get into What kind of work do we need to do on a vehicle? That doesn't have a driver and can we do some of that work or park some of these vehicles actually in different places? So similar to what we were talking about earlier We believe that some of the real estate and some of the areas that are doing certain things in cities today Will be repurposed for other reasons. I mean thing about parking structures gas stations You know different Park curb parking Then depots and you certainly for simple things you need to do with an autonomous vehicle. You don't want the car to Travel many miles to go do it in a center and then come back So there are a lot of things that we're going to learn and we're already starting to learn We actually have vehicles running out of that building going into the downtown area You know doing some you know, moving goods in this case. That's something that were already started to do with some of our partners and We're doing that with non autonomous vehicles because autonomous vehicles aren't here where we're testing the business We're testing the work with the city and we're doing that work in parallel to the technology being developed the one common thing that brings those two together is the technology requires in the first generation of autonomous vehicles require heavy compute and processing onboard in vehicle does not rely as much on smart cities and infrastructure and Therefore it also requires high definition mapping in the areas where the autonomous vehicle is going to be running So you can't randomly pick streets or go anywhere with level four This is geofence in certain places and we have to figure all that out and for the next few years Otherwise, we don't have a business. That's why it's it's critical or working with the city. So We really believe that autonomous vehicles are a lot more complex than the technology that goes into the car the next thing we're thinking about this is beyond the first generation is a lot of and this is really for working with cities is the smart infrastructure and and Again, another area that we're all keen to understand especially as City Planning is looking at the future there is brick and mortar And and and things you can do like we've been doing for many years or they're smart infrastructure You know simple things like autonomous vehicles don't really need traffic lights if there's transponders to know this is where you need to stop that and then you need to you can actually reduce a lot of the Processing and the technology that goes in in the vehicle if you actually have things to tell you what's going on around you you know vehicle to vehicle and infrastructure to vehicle and all kinds of technologies and really When when people talk about okay, when is it going to be ready? this is not an in or out this is gonna be a situation where Certain cities are going to adopt certain technologies working with automotive companies for autonomous vehicles and then we're gonna progressively improve Which means? reducing the amount of things happening in the vehicle and relying more on the infrastructure and we really think that's going to be an Area that will continue to progress hopefully that is actually better for everybody because that reduces actually the infrastructure that Goes in but initially it requires a different kind of infrastructure So first generation is what we're working on excited about doing the business looking at the landscape, you know building You know working out of depots and things like that Next is going to be the smart Infrastructure and what happens around the vehicle? And then how the vehicle reacts and then they haven't they have to happen together as we start Changing what the vehicle is processing and looking around the vehicle and relying more on what's happening around the vehicle? Exciting times. I know there's a lot of hype around autonomous vehicles, but really it's a very complex set of technical business and Working closely with cities even as simple as understanding traffic patterns Where do you deploy the vehicle at what time to do what that? Could actually help the city it can help the service and it can help everybody Thank you very much for your time. Thanks Alison I'm gonna come down as well Keep everyone entertained this afternoon right after lunch right you guys so Alison Malik I'm with Mei mobility We are a self-driving transportation services company and Sharif's discussion was a really great TIA Our company is focused on bringing communities together with self-driving Transportation and really taking a community focused approach as we launch working with what works in the technology today my founding team So I'm the chief operating officer with Mei mobility my founding team and I have extensive background both in automotive and in self-driving technology And with our backgrounds, we know that there's a lot of things that do work and there's a lot of things that don't work So what we're aiming to do with may mobility is bringing self-driving transportation to communities Leveraging what does work today in self-driving tech so to Sharif's point We can't do whole cities that doesn't work, but we can come in and do parts of cities do neighborhoods do specific You know commute routes. Can we come in and solve some of those basic pain points help to get your communities? Comfortable with this form of transportation and then scale out from there We've talked a lot with different communities about what they're interested in what we could do to help solve the Challenge and we realize that it's not just about the vehicles and the technology and all of the big press releases It really is about making sure that this is easy to adopt for any of the communities that you're developing or any of the cities That you guys are working in we try to have discussions about how do we make it easy? The future is autonomous. We're on the way there, but we need to bring everyone along for this ride So, how do we make it easy for you for your cities? And For your riders to be able to use this transportation. So part of it is about our vehicle Which is very reliable and capable another part of it is about site operations we to stand up operations to support our Deployment and lastly we have a software interface it allows us to manage our fleets and have sort of that overarching view but it also allows our partners to understand what level of Transportation service. They're getting are we moving the right number of people in the right directions? Are we having the right impacts in terms of either? Congestion or if you can reduce parking in a new high-rise that's coming in part of making sure that we're meeting the goals for the communities is making sure that we're bringing that information up and talking with with you all and with your city partners about what are the Outcomes that we want not that we want AV in the community, that's nice. But what are the transportation outcomes that we want to achieve? We've actually done deployments so we did a demonstration here in Detroit Socktober Working with bedrock who I'm sure after three days of this most of you know who they are Through the Detroit tours, they run shuttles that move people from office buildings to parking garages They run nine different shuttle routes in October of last year. We actually took over one of the shuttle routes So instead of people getting off of work and getting you know in finding the 30 passenger bus that would take them to their parking garage 220 people showed up And got into a self-driving shuttle That gave us an opportunity to to start to learn about what it means to have operations But it also gave us an opportunity to start to look at what riders need how do we make sure that our developer and city partners have the right level of insights and confidence in the Transportation that we're providing that it's safe that it's reliable and it's moving people But how do we also build a confidence in the riders? We had probably 20 people it didn't want to get on the car We didn't force them, but we did talk with him engage them talk with him about their fears They wrote on the vehicle and by the time we let them out at their parking structure There were all smiles and they're our biggest champions by the end of the week in terms of convincing people to get on the car so when we talk about AV is the future it is but again when if you're thinking about adopting new transportation into your communities Make sure that you're thinking about the riders as well so we can bring everyone along for this adventure. We've also done Demonstrations in places like Tampa, Florida working directly with the transit agency they have a transit way that runs perpendicular to a couple of bus rapid transit lines and Wanted just a simple shuttle to be able to help connect those lines We came in and we were able to do that demonstration very well A lot of communities are excited about AVS and there's a lot of stuff going on Finding the right partner for your needs is really key In terms of being able to operate on your existing road network with your existing traffic There aren't too many companies out there that can do that. So be cognizant as you're picking partners This talks a little bit about where we're going. So I talked about the shuttles and gaining confidence That's where we start. So we as main mobility or starting as a transportation service provider in one two Three mile trip distances that isn't where we end to get to the future of IV That is great that everyone can have exactly the level of transportation that they need everywhere all the time This is a big challenge that's even harder than getting the cars to drive themselves in the first place But we're up for it We think that this is the right first step to build that confidence Build that network around how to operate the business and over time you'll see that we'll have more platforms It could be a 30 passenger bus or an 11 passenger vehicle But we want to come in and work with communities to solve their overall transportation needs. So as we look towards the future We're excited to work with communities, especially at looking how to create interconnect opportunities I know a lot of people talked about I don't want to build a new parking structure. We love those conversations How can we help you? Use your existing parking assets better? That is available today Everything av all the time It's well into the future So as you're thinking about whether or not you want to adopt this type of thing into your community It will be a phased approach, so don't worry You don't have to completely upend your plans now, but it is good to think about it And I'm excited to talk more on the conversation Hi, all right Valerie satay Bruggeman, I work at the Center for Automotive Research and you might be thinking how automotive research Why are we talking? Why am I at Uli? Well interestingly I've been a Uli member for several years because of some work. I did years ago on Repurposing former auto manufacturing facilities and looking at adaptive reuse with respect to industrial sites So I'm thrilled to be here in this capacity as well talking about mobility and how mobility is impacting land use We at car were a non-profit think tank basically that explores every aspect of the automotive industry you can think of one of which being increasingly Mobility and how automotive plays into the broader mobility space and we did some research last fall That's that was put out called future cities and it specifically looked at how connected Automated connected and automated vehicles and innovative mobility services are like to impact communities and these are these include things like zoning requirements thinking about changing your mindset from a Minimum level of parking requirements for a building to maybe thinking of a maximum level of parking spots for buildings and including some forms of car sharing spots like a zip car or a car to go to Incorporate these into your planning processes your thinking about new buildings. It includes things like parking. I think Allison mentioned that a little bit Do you really need to invest in new parking or are there going to be fewer vehicles that need to be parked? That's likely the future and for the parking decks that you do need to invest in Maybe you should think about trying to make them flat so they can be more easily retrofitted to new uses There's a great concept that an architecture firm put up Concept a picture showing in automated vehicles parked very tightly in A parking structure because of course they parked themselves so they don't need space for someone to get into and out of so they're able To be more efficiently parked on one level of the parking structure. They showed Office space on levels 2 & 3 and then they show people doing yoga on the top storey. Of course This is very much a concept. We don't know that that's necessarily Coming but we're thinking about these things and it's important for land use professionals to be thinking about these things One interesting item to note is a lot of simulation Studies that you know estimate the impacts that connected and automated vehicles will have in the future Estimate that vehicle miles traveled or VMT will actually increase with these vehicles Because all of a sudden that the the cost of your travel time has been reduced significantly Instead of driving and wanting to minimize the time that you're that you're spending in a car and traffic etc You could be doing anything else any number of things in the vehicle? So all of a sudden with that if that travel time cost is decreased for you Then you might wish to live farther out sprawl might increase land use professionals need to start thinking about that How do you mitigate the potential negative effects of? Autonomous or automated vehicles to discourage sprawl to discourage more congestion as more vehicles come on the road To discourage zero occupancy vehicles. Let's say you have an automated vehicle It picks someone up and drops them off and then it's driving around looking for the next person How do you make that as efficient as possible? So this car is not driving around empty kind of like a taxi does now? But if you multiply taxis by tenfold and have that many more vehicles on the road, you're going to be creating more problems So these are just some of the the items to think about I know we're going to get into some of the discussions more But I'm very happy to be here and well happy to discuss with my fellow panelists in with you Thank You Valerie Okay, so that was a basic overview of what each of us are doing with our respective companies and you know as funny as the moderator your job is to basically Bring everyone together and we had some basic questions that we said no well Maybe we'll throw these out to the group when we start and when we got together, I asked people so couple questions They know what this is going to be more like a conversation because as we've talked here I think I've had about eight different questions. I want to bring up. I think the biggest thing that you've seen From everyone here is we're talking about Autonomous and automated vehicles. Does it everyone know there's a difference between the two? Okay, so we're gonna start with some basic things here guys So let's start off does everyone realize that in most cars you have some type of automation raise your hand if your car has automation Raise your hand if you have cruise control Your car has automation guys when ask the panelists first is to talk about a little bit We have levels four and five that we're trying to achieve and sure if we're stof with you Tell us about a little bit with four where they see themselves going from current levels - levels four and five yeah, we we see the the Vehicles that we all drive with a certain level of automation as level one, two three Those are you have a driver and then you can get more and more into the complexity of the automation and the levels were you can actually Stay focused versus do other things the more automation the vehicle can do that Obviously the luster driver can needs to do But what we're talking about here is level 4 and then obviously there's level 5 following that and level 4 is no driver But it's also in geo-fenced areas very specific and we'd be deploying those To service people and goods to move things around so they'll be passengers or will be goods in the vehicle to be delivered in specific locations Level 5 would go basically you remove that constraints. So based on, you know, you could take the car anywhere You know without a driver and you can go anywhere in the US or on the globe We're not at that level yet. We think that's just a progression and the first thing is level 4 a lot of work like we were talking earlier about HD mapping and no one exactly where you are the static map the dynamic data that you're getting as the vehicle is driving is still at at the stage where you need to do all that work and Know exactly where you are and know the static objects on those streets that you're driving on therefore it still geofence You still have to do that work? A lot of people say well when is level 5 going to be here? and and honestly I mean We don't know it depends on how fast we get to level 4 and how confident we are and then you can Continue to to get but it's at level 4. We that we see as an important step Towards level 5 which is the ultimate, you know automation If you will were that were you don't need a you know, you don't you not only aren't you driving the vehicle? But you can push a button and the vehicle can go wherever you want to go let me ask again this part of the interactive part of our Conversations here those in the audience how many people have been in a self-driving car? That's a level three level four that uh that there is no driver Raise your hand, okay What are some of thank you What are some of the fears and I'm gonna go? Allison to use I thought you've brought some very good points about getting the community involved and bringing the community along for the ride No pun intended, which I thought was fantastic How do you see the best way of engaging the community? We see the best way of engaging the Ryder Community through community leaders and that is part of the reason why our approach is so focused at launch is finding Community leaders and partners that I've identified that they have a transportation needs So there's a pain point where people are like, okay, I need this transportation Kind of gets them a little bit over the hurdle when they show up and it's self driving And then beyond that again It's still very much working with our partners to be able to reach out and work on education There's a lot of Education that needs to take place We all just kind of trust that our vehicles are safe and we know that because they've been around for hundreds of years or a hundred years plus But we don't understand why and and getting confidence in self driving Technology almost brings us back to even learning about the cars that we drive today And how they work and why they're safe. And so it's it's a it's a dialogue and exchange that needs to happen so we're figuring out how to integrate some of that within our vehicles, but some of that is just Straight ground work before we even launch on a road And I think that's probably one of the biggest things that we look to do as an industry is to bring out those vehicles to people to get in to feel to touch and I think even the legislators are probably a Big part as we're searching for some type of federal legislation or just down to state level legislation of how autonomous vehicles will be regulated So being able to have that that feel and touch I think is going to help move and progress this technology moving forward I don't know if everyone noticed but I think almost everyone here talked about parking And I think this is probably the biggest thing that will relate to this group is what do we do? I don't Valerie you've brought up No VM T's and that there's a few studies out there that are showing that probably maybe 20 There'll be 20 percent less cars But the VM T the vehicle miles traveled over those cars are gonna be exponential to what they are today Just talk to me about how you see curb space. You know, how do you see how we have to change curb space? Where are the opportunities and Valerie where to start with you and I want to work our way down? There are a lot of opportunities that automated driving would bring in the sense of freeing up current road space for other uses You know being able to reduce the lane widths because you don't need the the room for driver error Because there's no driver except for all the vehicles driving itself. So it knows exactly what path it's on Maybe you can shrink roads and create more, you know Pedestrian paths bike paths food trucks parking, who knows but other uses for for the roads Especially in more downtown or core areas There's a flipside to that though because you'll have all of these communication potentially technologies charging as well and that all needs to be Figured out where that is located So you might be freeing up some road space for other uses but your actual curb space and especially thinking of pickups and drop-off loading zones With with these vehicles, you know Do do people just get out anywhere or is there a central spot that you want to designate is the place for people to get? On and off kind of like what you're seeing at airports now where there's a designated ride-hailing area Do you want that in your city as well? Probably makes sense but and then tie that in to note was a lot of the big proponents of this automated technology or your elderly or those with that have Challenged physical challenges. Yeah. So how do we change that curbside? I'll go to either Sherif or to to Allison on how what do you think that we do to change? those having those types of Functionalities, therefore multiple types of people. I mean though you're talking about elderly again people with with a physical challenges How do we you know, we have a DA ramps right now? what else do you think we need to have I think that there's the one thing that Autonomous vehicles are gonna do is they like we were talking about earlier will have vehicles we're designing the first autonomous car to have hundreds of thousands of miles durability meaning continuing running for a lot more miles in a short period of time and just Realize the automotive industry has not really been doing that for the last hundred years It's more more miles over a longer period of time because that's what people do most of us use the car five percent or less of our time That takes it up to a different level. So that means you have an potential to Actually cause more issues or less issues depending on how you're doing. So That's why we believe that Understanding and getting in with the city and understanding the city's solutions that they're looking for traffic patterns rush-hour curb space downtown areas parking actually every city even though those are common things but they're different in every city and We think that figuring out understanding these things and then understanding the business and Understanding we were talking about elderly and the neighborhood in those areas those cars can Actually provide better service for those neighborhoods in times where that's the best place for them to be and provide that service so It's a complex set of things that I've seen a lot of models that can pretty much tell you anything You want to hear but what's important is understanding? those things result in a better way of Deploying these vehicles a very simple example even from a human behavior standpoint of delivering things to people We've already learned that I mean we've ran testing on some delivery in Ann Arbor, Michigan and in Miami, Florida And it's very different right if you're and it it isn't necessarily about the city It's a suburbia versus downtown if you're on a 20th floor of a building You're probably going to have less inclination to go down go around the building to a curb to pick up your stuff versus in front of your house in a suburbia, so those are things that are real and it means something to deploying autonomous car in different areas And we actually almost have to have that as input as we figure out how we're going to run these autonomous cars So I think We really relish engaging with communities early about equity and access It's easy to solve transportation Problems for people for whom this is a second option and we'll definitely go solve those We are in business and want to stay that way But we also realized that to meet a community's whole needs We have to think about everyone and to really reach the end goal of autonomy We have to think about everyone so some of the interesting conversations that we've been having is understanding ABA requirements as they apply to not buses ABA requirements are written at much more of a You shall do X Y or Z If you're a bus type of level versus, you know, you need to be accessible to a wheelchair and that's actually create really interesting opportunities where we come into a community and they're like we want you to meet ata and we're like What does that mean to you? So we get to have good conversations about what can we create? Ramped curved space our car zones hit that high off the ground So could we do things like create ramp to curb space rather than having our car emit around? that that would be honestly a bigger challenge and then are there other forms of transit that could use that same ramp to curb space and so thinking creatively about We know what the goals are. We know that we want to make sure that these vehicles are more accessible We've already started to work a little bit for visual and auditory impairment But but how do we how do we have a broader discussion about the the whole world? Around people and how the vehicles can fit in as a part of that Ladies and gentlement that I think you've reached our time like a great round of applause for our panelists here 