 Hello , it's Neville from Neurozo Innovation. And today I'm going to talk about the marketing of self-driving cars. Before we begin , I want to say something about marketing. Yes , people do lie in commercials , and the reason is simple... Because , that's how you become president. I mean... because it works. Sometimes , it just the easiest way to promote something. Well , I'm not going so far as to say that it's okay , but... First , it's just the reality of today world. And second , people usually won't be killed because of those exaggerations. But it's not the case for self-driving cars. The term , "self-driving" , is where I have problem with. Because for me , none of the cars today deserve the title "self-driving". They all need certain degrees of drivers' involvement. Otherwise , the cars may crash. How is that self-driving? And if you ignore the fact and continue to use the term , you'll have some serious problem. Let's take a look at this... Tesla autopilot nags drivers to hold the wheel more often. Where's that even coming from? I mean in the good old days it's totally crazy to not have your hands on the wheel while driving. Well , I believe it's exactly because the involvement of the words such as autopilot and self-driving. Because , let's face it. What is the first thing we'll want to do after buying a self-driving car? We'll put it on the road . Turn on the self-driving mode. And perhaps putting your hands in the air to prove the car is really driving itself. it's just one of the most natural things that we will do. But in this case , people may pay the price. And the price may be their lives. There is this levels of automation defined by SAE. So in the far left we have level 0. Which means no automation. Zero autonomy. The driver performs all driving tasks. Then it's level 1 , driver assistance. Vehicle is controlled by the driver , but some driving assist features may be included in the vehicle design. Then , we have level 2 , partial automation. Vehicle has combined automated functions , like acceleration and steering , but the driver must remain engaged with the driving task , and monitor the environment at all times. Then , it's level 3 , conditional automation. Driver is a necessity , but is not required to monitor the environment. The driver must be ready to take control of the vehicle at all times with notice. And then it's level 4 , high automation. The vehicle is capable of performing all driving functions under certain conditions. The driver may have the option to control the vehicle. And finally , we have level 5 , full automation. The vehicle is capable of performing all driving functions under all conditions. And as level 4 , the driver may have the option to control the vehicle. Now , I want to break it down for you to show you the traps in this hierarchy. And how they potentially put drivers in peril. First , in my opinion , none of the vehicles in these levels should be called self-driving. Let me explain. For level 0 , level 1 and level 2 , My statement should be fairly straightforward since drivers must engage in driving at all times. To call your vehicle at these levels self-driving can give people illusion that the car can handle itself well. And that may be the reason why people don't put their hands on the wheel. So what about level 3 and 4? They're the levels deserve to be called self-driving , right? Well , unfortunately , I think it may be even more dangerous to call the vehicles at these levels self-driving than the previous levels. Let's check out level 3 first. The driver must be ready to take control of the vehicle at all times with notice. Come on. Don't you know that accident can happen very quickly? Do you really expect that drivers will be able to take control in time , every time they receive notice? I don't think so. And by explicitly declaring that driver is not required to monitor the environment ,  aren't we increasing the chance of fatal crash? Level 4 has the similar problem , but it's even more subtle. Take a look at this. The vehicle is capable of performing all driving functions under certain conditions. What conditions? How do you clearly define which are the safe conditions and which are the dangerous conditions for the drivers to use the autopilot mode? And even if you do state it clear , will drivers keep that in mind? Also , consider the following scenario... Your self-driving car is rolling on a safe condition , so you fall asleep , and while you're sleeping , the car drives itself into an extremely complex condition which the autopilot simply cannot handle. What may happen then? Well , catastrophe may be the answer. So , if you ask me , I'll say even in this level drivers should focus on driving at all times. And if that's the case , why do we even call it self-driving? They should be known as a very advanced driving assist technology. Nothing more , and nothing less. Anyway , this is what I have to say about self-driving cars marketing strategy. And let me know what you think about this in the comment section down below. This is Neville from Neurozo Innovation , hoping to do another video for you soon. Peace. 