  ALISTAIR WEAVER: I'm Alistair Weaver, Vice President of Editorial and Editor in Chief here at Edmunds. In February, our Director of Testing, Dan Edmunds, and our Senior Road Test Engineer, Jay Kavanagh, set out to compare Tesla's Autopilot system with Cadillac Super Cruise, the latest technologies on the path to autonomous driving. It's a film you'll be able to see soon on Edmunds. During the test, they uncovered a fundamental flaw in Tesla's Autopilot system, which I'd like to share with you now. JASON KAVANAGH: So this is where Autopilot seems to be performing the worst, is on this two-lane road of gently rolling hills. Every other circumstance we have thrown at it, it's been much better. And this is not good at all. [RUMBLE STRIP NOISE] Ah, wow. So it just crossed the double yellow. I would get pulled over if I drove the way the Autopilot's driving right now. I'm not letting it do that. So we had a truck coming head on and I didn't want to take any chances with Autopilot going over the double yellow again, so I just interviewed right there. ALISTAIR WEAVER: At Edmunds, we have a longstanding relationship with Tesla. I was one of the first journalists in the world to drive the Model S back in 2012. And we bought an S, and X, and now Model 3, as part of our long-term test fleet. This test was very much carried out according to manufacturer guidelines on a clearly marked straight road in near perfect visibility. We shared the footage with Tesla, who advised that the problem had been alleviated by a software update, version 2018 10.5, which was rolled out on March the 18th after our original test. We double checked, and this update had been fitted to our Model 3. So we returned to the same stretch of road in near identical conditions. These are our findings. JASON KAVANAGH: We've updated our Tesla Model 3 software to the latest version, which is 10.5. And we're going to see if it made any difference to Autopilot's behavior on the same road that it didn't do so well on last time with the previous version of the software. All right, we're in the dips, Autopilot's on, it's handling the dips much, much better than it did previously. It's acting the way you'd want it to act. We're just about through all the dips and Autopilot worked fine. It didn't exhibit any of that behavior that we saw with the previous version of the software. So I think the current version is something that owners need. This is a must change. ALISTAIR WEAVER: The software update appears to improve the performance of the Autopilot system on an undulating road. And we'd encourage all owners to check that they have version 10.5 installed on their cars. We applaud Tesla's commitment to updating its software. And this auto shows the clear benefit of providing updates over the airwaves. But it also reveals the extent to which customers like us are being used as Guinea pigs on a safety critical system. We paid $5,000 for our enhanced Autopilot option, a hefty price tag that also raises expectations. Yes, Tesla litters the handbook with caveats. And yes, they describe Autosteer as a beta system. But Autopilot was launched back in October 2014. At what point does it stop being beta? 