 Mona: Hello, My name is Mona Bahouth, I'm a stroke neurologist at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and the medical director of the Brain Rescue Unit. In these series of modules, we'll be talking about concepts in early stroke care and strategies for enhancing early stroke recovery. In module one, we'll focus on a brief review of the background of stroke as it pertains to early stroke recovery, several pathophysiological principles that affect patient care in the early stroke recovery period and managing post-stroke complications to achieve best results for each individual patient. I'd like to start by saying we've made great progress in terms of reducing stroke related mortality across the globe. In this graphic provided by the World Health Organization, you can see that many countries have made great progress to reduce their stroke related mortality. While other countries have room for improvement. And in the small graphic next to the map, you can see the 172 countries who report their stroke related mortality in terms of outcome data and data that may apply to your individual country. And while reducing stroke related mortality is a great accomplishment, we still have work to do. First, stroke remains common with an estimated 15 million people having a stroke every year. It is the second leading cause of death worldwide. But to me, the most important statistic is that despite our advances, stroke remains the leading cause of adult disability, meaning that patients who'll stroke will survive the stroke episode to spend the remainder of their years with disability or reduced quality of life. And that doesn't simply apply to patients with large stroke, in one study patients with small stroke reported poor three month functional outcome in 30% of the cases. Another important thing to consider is that stroke itself has high economic burden, lost productivity for both the patient and the caregiver. And this is summarized well in a book written by Roald Dahl, an author who was describing his experience, watching his wife after her stroke. And he summarized it well in this one line, "Strokes paralyze limbs, destroy speech, and kill the will to live." And this really motivates us to examine our system of stroke care continually to assure that every part of this important chain of stroke recovery is in its strongest phase. In the prior lectures, you've heard about organization of early stroke care in terms of making sure that the emergency systems are prepared to receive every patient in the emergency department for the delivery of time sensitive stroke therapies. In the next several slides, we're going to be talking about what happens in the hospital phase of care itself, the things that we can do right and wrong to help propel a person's recovery forward to reduce longterm disability. Now, when we think about hyperacute therapies, we know that that is the best way to help a person recover from a stroke, saving brain tissue and neurons leads to higher rates of recovery for every patient. And you've already heard in prior lectures about the medical treatments using TPA and mechanical thrombectomy, a surgical procedure to revascularize blood vessels that are blocked. And while these are fantastic therapies, they unfortunately are only reaching about five to 10% of stroke patients, even in advanced care delivery systems. Therefore, during this lecture, we're now gonna focus on this early recovery period, the period of time that all 100% of patients will go through after the time of their stroke, whether or not they've received the hyperacute therapies to help treat their illness. And this will be the focus of our discussion in this module. However, it's important that we note that stroke care is delivered across a continuum and therefore, when we talk about these concepts, they will apply to all the other phases of stroke care that follow in terms of rehabilitation and community reintegration. As we talk about having patients transition across this continuum seamlessly, I'd like to consider early stroke recovery in three categories for our conversation today. First, we'll talk about optimizing physiology and learning about pathophysiologic concepts. We'll then move into the prevention of complications, followed by our next module that will focus on promoting activity for stroke patients. The two physiologic principles that we'll focus on include autoregulation and disruption of the blood brain barrier. When considering early consequences of stroke, autoregulation is an important concept to understand. Under normal conditions, cerebral blood flow is matched tightly to the metabolic demands of the brain. This process is accomplished through multiple adaptive features, including autoregulation. Autoregulation is a multifactorial process that maintains blood flow to the brain, even as systemic blood pressures are fluctuating. In this graph, you can see here with the solid line that even as mean blood pressure, mean arterial pressure changes, cerebral blood flow is maintained at a relatively constant rate using a series of vasodilatory and vasoconstrictive maneuvers in the blood vessels themselves. The dotted-line represents the ischemic time period where patients are vulnerable to the direct consequences of the mean arterial pressure without the benefit of vasoconstriction or vasodilatation to protect the brain itself, meaning that the brain becomes vulnerable to the exact changes in blood pressure that they are seeing. When autoregulation becomes impaired, there are a series of secondary complications then occur and in this graph by Varon and Mark, they depict clearly that if blood pressure decreases during a time of disrupted autoregulation, the brain is at risk for ischemia or additional infarction. If the blood pressure is exceedingly high during a time of disrupted autoregulation, the brain is vulnerable to development of more rapid edema, as well as hemorrhagic transformation, all of which combine to reduce outcome after stroke. And therefore an important focus in the early phase of stroke care is blood pressure regulation. This topic in itself would require an entire lecture to cover adequately, but generally speaking, there are multiple considerations to take into account when deciding on a blood pressure target after stroke. These considerations may include things like the stroke type in etiology, such as large versus small vessel stroke. The status of cerebral perfusion, for example, is there a critical stenosis leading to change in local perfusion that would acquire a higher blood pressure goal? The administration of hyperacute therapies, such as TPA or mechanical thrombectomy that would require post-treatment blood pressure adjustments to avoid adverse events. The comorbid conditions of the patient, including age, the presence of additional and organ damage such as MI or concurrent aortic dissection, and the patient's pre-stroke blood pressure, the set point that they have become most accustomed to over time. These are just a few of the considerations to take into account when planning blood pressure management strategies after stroke. But I would say as a general rule, preventing hypotension is an important goal as well. Avoiding sudden decreases in mean arterial pressure are critical, considering that autoregulation is disrupted and the adaptive vasodilation response that would normally be present would not occur to protect the cerebral blood flow in this circumstance. It is critical that neurologic status is closely monitored during periods of blood pressure manipulation in the early stroke period. Worsening in the neurological exam would suggested the change in blood pressure was impacting brain perfusion. The table taken from the American Stroke Association provides guidelines and a handy reference to utilize when managing blood pressure in the early stroke recovery period. Now considerations and blood pressure management also come into play as we consider another physiologic consequence of stroke, disruption of the blood brain barrier. The blood brain barrier is a selective semipermeable membrane that prevents large solutes from entering between the capillary, intravascular space into the fluid around the brain that can directly affect the neurons. The blood brain barrier is made up of tightly packed cells that protect the brain from the movement of these particles. And after stroke, the blood brain barrier is disrupted and the injury cascade of ischemia contribute to both cerebral edema and hemorrhagic transformation. And these biochemical displays tell us several of the complex proteins that contribute to the changes in the blood brain barrier themselves. The graph in the bottom left corner also reminds us that disruption of the blood brain barrier is occurring over hours and days after stroke, which contribute to some of our decision making in the early stroke period, especially as we're considering the development of cerebral edema. Cerebral edema, as we know, contributes to increased intracranial pressure and is an important consideration as we consider activities and treatments in the first few hours and days after stroke. As you can see in the first Cat Scan listed as the day two Cat Scan, this patient has a left MCA territory stroke that is causing a large area of infarction as well as surrounding cerebral edema that is leading to midline shift and compression of the non-injured structures of the brain. This can contribute to secondary injury and worsen patient outcomes. And therefore when treating patients in this critical period, we have some basic bedside considerations to take into account. Patient positioning, including keeping the head of the bed elevated and avoidance of compression of the juggler outflow vessels. Assuring that normal Karvea or carbon dioxide is maintained at a normal rate. Assuring that the patient is normothermic, since we know that increased temperature can increase the rate of development of cerebral edema and contributes to increase intracranial pressure. Management of serum sodium, which can help to assure that an osmotic gradient is maintained during a time of peak cerebral edema. And therefore related is intravenous fluid selection to something in the area of an isotonic fluid. As well, serial neurologic examination to detect the acceleration of cerebral edema and the assessment and consideration of decompressive hemicraniectomy for a select group of patients who are eligible for this life saving procedure. And as you can see in the second Cat scan, this is an illustration of a patient who was taken for hemicraniectomy with removal of the bone structure to allow for expansion of the brain during the peak period of malignant edema. This procedure does not help with the area of stroke itself, but is a life saving maneuver for a select group of patients. Early recurring stroke is another complication worth considering. Hospitalized stroke patients undergo a series of expedited diagnostic tests. The purpose of that testing is to identify underlying etiology of stroke and potential treatments for the reduction of stroke risk. In this slide, I summarize the rationale for that testing and underscore the importance of each individual test and its potential to find the cause of the current stroke and contribute to treatment decisions that would reduce the chance of repeat stroke in the early stroke recovery period. These actions have the potential to reduce both morbidity and mortality after stroke. Another important complication for consideration after stroke is swallow dysfunction. It is important because it is common, estimated in some studies to occur approximately 60% of the time after stroke. And also because it contributes to several serious post stroke complications, including aspiration pneumonia, dehydration, and malnutrition. This parameter requires close monitoring, both to evaluate its progression as well as to develop a cohesive treatment plan for patients that may include a semipermanent access for nutritional supplementation. Now, the placement of a gastrostomy tube is sometimes the solution for patients who have persistent swallow dysfunction that will last longer than one to two weeks. But as you can see here by this table that summarizes the international guidelines for the placement of gastrostomy tube after stroke, most countries recommend that you wait on the order of two weeks or greater before the placement of such a tube. These guidelines are based on several observational studies, as well as the food trial that suggested that post-stroke outcome was worsened for patients who had gastrostomy tube placement. It is also important to understand that most patients swallow dysfunction will recover over several weeks. Therefore the need for such a more semi-permanent feeding access may not be necessary in some cases. For this reason, bedside swallow evaluation is a prominent recommendation within the national guidelines from the American Stroke Association, as it will reduce several complications post stroke. These guidelines also summarize several other important recommendations and post-stroke complications worth observing for. Hyperthermia, the recommendation, of course, is to assure that fever is promptly treated. Constipation can occur many times because of immobility related to stroke and can lead to secondary complications and prolonged hospital stay. Therefore daily bowel regimen is recommended. Head of bed positioning is critical as we consider intercranial pressure and the management of cerebral edema. Currently Head a bed at 30 degrees is the recommendation and monitoring and treatment to prevent deep vein thrombosis is critical as immobility and Hemiparesis can contribute to DVT as a high prominent complication. Hyperglycemia is an important target for management and the post stroke patient for both diabetics and non-diabetics and the recommendation target glucose is between 140 to 180 milligrams per deciliter. And these complications are not just listed because they're are a nuisance to the patient or have the potential to increase hospital length of stay. They also have an impact on longterm functional outcome. In this study completed in the Netherlands, patients were observed after stroke for the development of post-stroke complications, as related to their functional outcome, as defined by a modified Rankin score. In this colorful graph, you can see that complications such as recurrent stroke or myocardial infarction in the first seven days led to much higher percentages of patients with high mortality, such as a death or complete disability indicated by the blue bars. But those weren't the only complications worth paying attention to, as an example, a patient who accumulated a chest infection in the first seven days after stroke had a three times increase odds of worst functional outcome as compared to the same matched patient who did not have a chest infection. And as you can see by the column, the chance of an modified Rankin greater than three was also a statistically significantly elevated if you should have a chest infection in those first few days after stroke. Other complications worth noticing are UTI infections, as well as falls, all of which had statistically meaningful relationship to core functional outcome after stroke, meaning that these complications really deserve attention in the early stroke recovery period in order to reduce post-stroke related disability. So reducing complications after strokes, such as the ones that have been discussed in the previous slides are really reliant on a stroke system of care that pays attention to those details and delivers interventions that are timely and specific to the complications most risky for the stroke patient. In this study completed in Australia, a cluster randomized trial demonstrated that a simple intervention of giving goal directed therapies and bundling the priorities had high rates of benefit to the stroke patients in their stroke centers. In this study, the FESS protocol that really focused on fever, sugar, meaning glucose and swallow dysfunction had high yield of benefit to the stroke patients when monitoring was pre-specified for the stroke centers that were involved in the intervention group and the treatment thresholds were predefined. As you can see in the blue table in the top left, fever was measured every four hours for 72 hours for all patients in the intervention group, glucose's were measured based on diabetic status, either every four or every six hours for at least two days after stroke. And the swallow test was key in terms of getting it accomplished within 24 hours. The targets for treatment of fever were to rapidly reduce fever if it reached a threshold of 37.5 or greater and treat glucose's to maintain the target of less than 180 milligrams per deciliter, or 10 millimole's per liter. As you can see by the table, this had significant benefit in terms of death independency over the treatment time at the 90 day point post-hospitalization and had an improvement, as you can see by the modified Rankin bars in a significantly larger percent of patients who achieved independent status modified Rankin of zero or one if they were in the intervention group, showing that targeted bundled therapies can really play a big, big role in the post stroke recovery period. And finally, I'd like to end by talking about stroke unit care in general. Stroke unit care allows for the achievement of such treatment goals. A stroke unit is really defined as a focused place where stroke patients are admitted to receive the care through specialized nursing, a multidisciplinary team that has a cohesive communication plan, uses protocols for standardization of the delivery of that care and has expertise to avoid and identify complications after that stroke. Stroke center care really allows a system to deliver the right treatment to the right patient at the right time. And the benefit from such stroke unit care has been evident for decades. As you can see from the chart listed above, when a study in the late '90s compared stroke unit care versus general medical ward care, you can see that a significant difference in death independency and death and institutionalization emerged. In fact, in that study, the number needed to treat to have a benefit for a patient was 11, suggesting that stroke unit care is almost on the same order as some of the medication treatments that we have for hyperacute stroke therapy. In the bar graph below, you can see that the functional status also had a persistent benefit, meaning patients who were admitted to a stroke unit versus a general medical unit, even at 52 weeks post-stroke, still showed a significantly improved number of patients who were remained at home and independent compared to those who had to be institutionalized. Therefore stroke unit care seems to have an importantly meaningful and durable effect on stroke patient outcome, which is critical as we're considering the right therapies for patients in the early stroke recovery period. So to summarize what we've discussed in this module, first, we understand that pathophysiologic principles really guide our clinical treatment decisions in the first days and week after stroke. Reducing post-stroke complications is critical for patient recovery. And dedicated stroke units have the opportunity to really help standardize early post-stroke care and reduce longterm disability. I hope that this discussion has been beneficial. I look forward to talking with you either via email, with any questions or in the coming weeks, as we have our live question and answer session. Thank you for your attention. 