 Hello, my name is Leslie Roach and I am a Cooperative Extension Specialist in Rangeland Science and Management at UC Davis. And today I'm going to talk about some of the work that we've been doing on drought management on California rangelands. Rangelands are incredibly biologically diverse, they range from arid deserts and shrublands to more mesic grasslands and woodlands And of course there is complexity across scales both space and time. In addition to this biological complexity rangelands are also socioeconomically complex. And this is some of the work that we've been doing looking at adaptive rangeland decision-making which highlights just a little bit of this complexity. So, we have the ecological system  which I just mentioned linked to the social components of the system, the economic forces, the policy community values and social networks for example. Which all interact to shape and affect the individual adaptive decisions, the social values goals and capacities and strategies of individual operations which in turn influence the social economic and ecological outcomes. And over time we have feedbacks, adaptation and learning. On top of all of this complexity of all the biophysical and the social complexity we also want more and we're seeing expanding expectations for multiple ecosystem services from these rangeland landscapes. On top of that we're already wanting more in an already variable and changing environment this is particularly challenging with the mounting pressures of global environmental change. Including altered fire regimes,  development in the urban wildland interface, the spread of disease and invasive species and prolonged and severe droughts. And California is on the leading edge of many things and drought is no exception. So if we're going to think about how we want to adapt to a changing environment and cope with these challenges then we need to understand the social context the place-based perspectives and experiences of those who live and work on these lands. And so that we can better bring together the policy research and management realms to better provide the most relevant knowledge. And a good place to start to do this is with the experience resource managers themselves. Unlike other natural hazards drought is a gradual complex disaster with very indistinct starting and ending points. Severe and widespread droughts can trigger massive undesirable ecological shifts which can impact forage and livestock production capacity and directly threaten livelihoods. The communities reliant on rain fed rangelands are potentially the most vulnerable to climate variability given their dependence on such a climate sensitive resource. And in fact rangeland livestock producers are among the first in the agricultural community that is often affected by drought. Drought has played a formative role in California's early history and has continued to do so with at least six multi-year drought since 1960, including our very recent historic statewide drought. So, with most family operations in California, family operations being three generations or more in ranching, there's a lot of experience here that  we can learn from. And we can particularly learn how we can effectively enhance drought adaptation capacity, which as we know from our adaptive decision-making work can potentially be influenced by a host of decision-making factors including information resources, goal-setting and management capacity or the management toolbox. To this end we launched a series of survey efforts working with the California ranching community starting with the California rancher decision-making mail survey of 500 ranchers across the state. And this survey focused on several themes including operator and operation demographics, information resources and operator values and beliefs, management goals and practices and specifically focused on management for drought. In terms of drought management practices we specifically asked about proactive practices. Proactive drought management practices what are the practices that managers use to plan for potential droughts in the future. And what we found was that the primary tools or the top three tools here and bold really focused on conserving forage and actively managing risk. So, the top practice was employing concern of stocking rates which 35% of ranchers do. In terms of settings the stocking rates based on expected forage supply during less favorable years or dry or drought years, so that they can reduce the chances of having to sell animals during periods of unfavorable price markets. The second most popular was pasture rest, incorporating pasture rest into the system about 24% of ranchers said they do this and allowing pastures arrest allows them to recover and save and provide future forage resources. Also about 22% of ranchers add what we can think of as a relief valve to the operation, in which they integrate multiple classes of animals here cow calf as well as younger yearlings to stocker animals which allows them to be more flexible in their overall herd numbers. We also asked about reactive drought management practices. So, what are the practices that ranchers use to respond to a current and ongoing drought? In terms of the primary tools or the most utilized practices across California they tended to focus on managing impact to the bottom  line not surprisingly. Over 70% of ranchers said that they reach they automatically immediately reduced the herd size or purchase feed to maintain their core herd. The third most utilized practice was the use of government assistance programs such as a disaster relief  with 40% of ranchers. And another 40% of ranchers and said that they use an early weaning to reduce demands on mother cows when they're in their critical energy and nutrient requirement periods. And so those are the most commonly used reactive and proactive practices that we found and sort of the think of them as the seven primary or core practices identified. But we also wanted to know do  ranchers there are lot of them use a lot of the same practices but they put them together in the same ways. Do they use the same suite of practices or is there variability across operations. And so based on rancher responses to those individual practice questions focusing on reactive and proactive drought practices we statistically identified classes of drought strategies that people use across California. And when we did this we found that generally there are four broad classes or types of on ranch drought management strategies that operations can be classified into. And these resulting classes a span a gradient of increasing management intensity or you can think of it as correlated to number of practices used with class one being the least intensive management practices used and class four having the greatest management intensity. And to give you an idea of some of the identifying practices and characteristics of these types of classes. We found that classes ordered ranged from class one here which had very low adoption rates of any drought management practices. In fact these tended to be smaller operations with no prior experience with drought. This range from class one as  we move along this gradient to classes with larger numbers of drought management practices used and increasing emphasis on proactive practices which you can see here in yellow as we move along these this gradient. In these classes particularly classes three and four, they tended to be larger operations with access  to more resources. In terms of how individual drought adaptation is hanced those decision-making factors we defined drought adaptation capacity by the number of drought practices both reactive and proactive because as we just saw that's very important in defining the drought management strategies across California, as well as defining it by whether people had a drought management plan in place whether they were doing active drought planning. And what we found was that indeed drought adaptation capacity was enhanced by information resources, so indicators like formal education level as well as access to high quality and a high number of information resources and a large number of generations in place on the ranch to completely to contribute to that knowledge source. We also found that a goal setting also enhanced drought adaptation capacity so for example valuing the future forage resources and ranking forge production very highly among their ranching goals. The management toolbox was also very important and positively correlated to drought adaptation capacity, having the flexibility in those resources such as having multiple land ownership types allowed them to be able to adapt and cope with drought more effectively. And we also found not surprisingly as we saw with the drought management strategies that past experience with drought was also positive positively correlated with drought adaptation capacity. So those that had experienced  drought in the past were more able to adapt to and cope with drought. So that's what we learned about ranchers past experience with drought prior to California's 500 year historic drought. Most recently we looked at what have been  some of the changes in management practices following the onset of that historic drought and we worked with a subset of producers including cattle and sheep ranchers across California to better understand drought planning responses and impacts. In terms of drought practices  we asked many of the similar questions that we did in the 2011 survey and we found for cattle producers and particular we found increased use across the board as well as a broader diversity of primary practices for proactive drought management. In fact we saw as much as 90% of proactive practices used compared to those much lower rates of adoption prior to the state's historic drought. If you recall the primary proactive  practices adoption rates hovered around 30%. In terms of differences between  cattle producers and sheep producers we found that cattle producers had greater rates of adoption of grass banking or stockpiling forage, so saving forage resources for the future, while sheep producers had greater adoption rates of incorporating other livestock species compared to those cattle producers. For the reactive drought management practices we again for cattle producers we saw increase use across the board with a broader diversity of primary practices here in bold used by those cattle producers. In total for reactive and proactive practices we saw nearly doubling of the core practices that producers are depending on for drought management before after these historic drought. Sheep and cattle producers were generally very similar in terms of their use of reactive drought management practices with a few exceptions including sheep producers tended to utilize more the reducing herd or flock size practice and within their operations compared to cattle producers. In terms of drought impacts we we asked producers what were the impacts that they specifically saw during this historic drought and then what were the severity of those impacts. So, we asked them to rank the  severity on a scale of one to five, five being the most severe that they were affected by each of these impacts and what we found was that an overwhelming majority of beef and sheep producers experienced fairly severe hits to their income, so they saw increased expenses as well as reduce production. Producers also experienced severe impacts from reduced water sources, so reduced stock water and surface water as well as fairly severe impacts with increasing wildfire severity. Many producers also commented during these surveys that just personal anguish and stress were also very big impacts for them. So, wrapping up what we found is that the flexibility really is key there is a diversity of drought strategies that we've seen among producers across California and so maintaining those options of having that large toolbox of both proactive and reactive practices is important for maintaining that diversity and increasing their abilities to  cope with drought. We found that capacity to cope with drought increases with not only that toolbox but also with information networks and goal-setting and particularly in value valuing future forage resources. And so given this diversity of drought management strategies across California. Policy makers and planners  should really take into account you know this diversity and supporting that in providing a suite of management and policy options to reduce the vulnerability across all types of ranching operations. You can find supporting research in an extension information from this work on our rangeland drought hub as well as hear directly from ranchers themselves through the project voices from the drought and this project was inspired by Caroline Henderson's letters from “The Dust Bowl” and captures the stories of 50 farmers and ranchers who were in the midst of California's historic drought at the time. You can find more informative presentations covering ranch water quality topics on the UC rangelands website and look for the water quality information hub or direct your web browser to the URL shown on this slide. 