 Hello everyone I'm Dr. M. Nurul Akhtar Hasan Pediatric Intensivist & Associate Professor Pediatric Intensive Care National Heart Foundation Hospital & Research Institute Dhaka, Bangladesh. Today we'll discuss Conventional or Basic modes of mechanical ventilation At the end of today's presentation You'll be able to understand basic modes of mechanical ventilation like, CMV, assist control, SIMV, pressure support  and CPAP Before going into detail I'ld like to remind you that, there is significant variations in nomenclature of mechanical ventilation modes Same mode you may find at different name at different brand of ventilator Sometimes, in a same ventilator brand in different models you may find different names And, these are causing significant confusion among the clinicians and, not actually helping the patients or clinicians That's why its very important to understand basic or generic modes. Let us recapitulate few slides from previous lecture There are different types of breaths in ventilator First, controlled breath. Controlled breath is provided by ventilator and, that is time triggered or machine triggered and full support is provided. In assisted breath actually that is patient trigger/time triggered and full or partial support is provided as per mode of choice In pressure supported breath, all the breaths are patient triggered and only partial support is provided and spontaneous breaths are non-triggered Patient takes breath and no support is being provided from ventilator. But, you may get confused in some models of mechanical ventilators where, in spontaneous mode there is option to add pressure support. If you add pressure support in spontaneous breaths that becomes pressure support mode. That means, that is synonymous with pressure support and spontaneous so that may consuse you. In controlled mechanical ventilation or CMV all breaths are initiated and delivered by ventilator and the patient doesn't take an active role. It delivers a pre-selected ventilatory rate and tidal volume or peak inspiratory pressure and inspiratory flow rate, which are independent of spontaneous effort of patient. But this form of ventilator mode is not routinely used in clinical practice. Only used in operating room or comatose patients or deeply sedated patients for short period of time What is lacking here is, synchronization. Now a days this Controlled mechanical ventilation (CMV) has been replaced with Continuous mandatory ventilation (CMV) so, dont confuse youself. Continuous mandatory ventilation is actually synonymous with Assist controll or AC In Assist control mode it allows the patient to initiate ventilator breaths. Patient's effrot is assisted by the ventilator. If the patient has no adequate breath to initiate ventilator breath then breaths will be delivered by ventilator at a pre-selected rate i.e. mandatory breaths. Let us seen an example. If we ventilate a patient at a rate of 20/min That means, at every 3 seconds ventilator will provide a breath. During this 3 sec period of time if patient takes any breath the ventilator will ventilator will notice that breath after synchronizing with that breath ventilator will provide a full breath. As this breath was initiated by patient that is actually patient triggered breath After this breath ventilator will wait for another 3 sec for further patient's response. If patient don't take any breath during this 3 sec period of time at the end of this 3 sec ventilator will provide a full breath. As this breath is not initiated by patient rather provided by ventilator after certain period of time that is time triggered or machine triggered. That means in Assist control there is a mix of mandatory and assisted breath. All breaths, once triggered either patient triggered or time triggered are treated as same and have a constant tidal volume or peak inspiratory pressure. This is the waveforms in assist control ventilation. This is flow waveform. This is inspiration & this is expiration. At middle, this is pressure waveform and at bottom, it is volume waveform. If you notice, all the breaths are of similar character and provide equal amount of tidal volume in all the breaths. In pressure waveform before few breaths, you'll notice a negative indentation. This negative indentation indicates patient's spontaneous effort that means, these breaths are patient triggered breath. But, this is not patient triggered breath. There is no negative indentation and that is a machine triggered breath  or time triggered breath. But, all the breaths are of equal characters. Let us see the difference between controlled mechanical ventilation and  assist control In controlled mechanical ventilation, this is a mandatory breath and this is a mandatory breath and in between the mandatory breaths when patient took a respiration that was unsupported and it is the unsupported patient's inspiratory effort. But, if it is assist control that effort will be supported by identical mandatory breath. So, all the breaths are mandatory breath and assisted breath all the breaths are of similar characters  having full support. In controlled ventilation breathing is entirely controlled by ventilator which is actually applied for a short period of time during acute phase. There is a down side of respiratory muscle inactivation and ventilator associated diaphragmatic dysfunction if used for a prolonged period of time. On the other hand, in assisted ventilation patient's respiratory system and the ventilator work together and, there is less requirement of sedation and  muscle relaxant. There is less risk of critical illness polyneuropathy and less chance of diaphragmatic dysfunction. Now, come to synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation or SIMV In SIMV mandatory breaths are delivered at a pre-selected rate and patient is allowed to breath spontaneously in between mandatory breaths. If mandatory breaths are not synchronized with patient then it is called IMV which is not used now a days. Pressure support is usually added in SIMV to support spontaneous breath in between mandatory breath to overcome the resistance of the endotracheal tube and thereby reduces the work of breathing. Let us see the same example. We're ventilating a patient at SIMV mode with a rate of 20 breaths/min That means, after every 3 sec ventilator will provide a mandatory breath. But, in between this, if patient takes additional breath those breath patient will not get full support rather they'll get pressure support. that is partial support. This curve may help you to understand little more. This is mandatory breath and this is mandatory breath But, in between these mandatory breaths when patient took spontaneous breath those were supported with a some amount of pressure support and these are pressure supported breath. these pressure supported breaths are much smaller than mandatory breaths and provide less amount of tidal volume. Usually 2/3rd of peak inspiratory pressure  can be started as pressure support. and then you can adjust accordingly. If peak inspiratory pressure is 15 then you may add a pressure support of 10 These are the waveforms in SIMV mode This is flow waveform, pressure waveform  at bottom volume waveform. This is mandatory breath these two mandatory breaths, where good amount of tidal volume provided, almost 700 ml. But, in between these mandatory breaths there are patient's spontaneous effort and pressure supported breaths and, in these pressure supported breaths patient received less amount of tidal volume less than 400 ml. So, SIMV is actually mix of breath mandatory breaths and few spontaneous breaths (pressure supported) What's the difference between Assist control and SIMV In Assist control spontaneous rate in excess of set respiratory rate will get full support Say for example If we are ventilating a patient in assist control mode with a respiratory rate of 20 breaths/min and patient is taking 30 breaths/min patient's own rate is 30/min that means, patient has additional 10 breaths other than 20 mandatory breaths. In that extra 10 breaths in Assist control mode ventilator will provide full support like those of 20 mandatory breaths. But, in SIMV mode if we provide ventilation with 20 breaths/min and patient's own rate is 30/min then, after that 20 mandatory breaths those extra 10 breaths ventilator will not provide full support ventilator will provide partial support. that is pressure support. So spontaneous rate in excess of set respiratory rate in Assist control ventilator will provide full support and in SIMV ventilator will provide partial support. That's why actually SIMV is a weaning mode When we're planning to wean from mechanical ventilation we can switch to SIMV Let us see the difference between SIMV and Assist control in a graph This is SIMV, these two mandatory breaths and in between there is pressure supported breath with partial support But, if it is assist control this patient will get full support in those extra breaths also. So in assist control full support and in SIMV in extra breath patient will get partial support. Let us see pressure support ventilation. In pressure support ventilation there is no mandatory breath We don't provide any respiratory rate in this mode of ventilation. That means, every breath must be initiated and triggered by patient and supported by set amount of pressure So, patient has to take his own breath and ventilator will provide only pressure support in those spontaneous breath of all the patient's breath If, in SIMV mode of ventilation we make the respiratory rate zero that may also become pressure support mode but usually ventilators don't allow to make respiratory rate zero in SIMV mode Usually lowest achieveable rate in SIMV mode is 4 In pressure support mode, if we dont support  breaths with pressure support then patient will get only PEEP Positive end expiratory pressure That is actually equavalent to CPAP. or Continuous positive airway pressure. we're at the end of presentation Let us see what we discussed today. Controlled mechanical ventilation all breaths are initiated and delivered by the ventilator And patient doesn't take an active role. In continuous mandatory ventilation or Assist control it allows the patient to take and initiate ventilator breaths. All breaths, once triggered are treated as same and have a constant tidal volume or peak inspiratory pressure Synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation or SIMV Patient is allowed to breath spontaneously in between mandatory breaths Pressure support is usually added in SIMV to support spontaneous breath in between mandatory breaths In Pressure support, there is no mandatory breaths Every breath must be triggered by patient and supported by set amount of pressure How will you start? You can start with Assist control or CMV. When your patient is improving and you are planning to wean then, you can switch to SIMV. Alternatively, if you are ventilating in CMV or Assist control and patient is hyperventilating, there is  respiratory alkalosis and too much wash out of carbon-di-oxide then you can also switch to SIMV. From SIMV, before weaning you can give a short period of trial at Pressure support mode for half an hour to 2 hours. In older children and adults more than 2 hours can be given. But in children, half an hour to 2 hours is adequate. And after this trial period you can extubate the patient. But, it is better to avoid pressure support in neonates. Neonates can be extubated directly from SIMV also. Which mode will you choose according to  disease condition? In ARDS it is APRV, Bi-level or inverse ratio ventilation We've not discussed today. In subsequent lectures we'll discuss these advanced mode or less commonly used modes. If patient is hemodynamically unstable then very high PEEP is better to avoided. But low PEEP less than 4 or 5 is not advocated. In Bronchial asthma or hyper-reactive airways low PEEP, high I:E ratio is advised and in Pneumothorax and airleak low PIP/tidal volume, low PEEP and high respiratory rate is advocated. In next lecture, we'll discuss newer and  advanced mode of mechanical ventilation. like, pressure regulated volume control and Adaptive support ventilation or ASV 