 Morning good afternoon everyone. My name is John Dripps. I'm the Account Technology Strategist along with Bill Barkovic, who's our Modern Workplace Specialist, and Brian Jamison our Security Specialist and we are just part of the larger Microsoft tribal account team within the federal group at Microsoft. As we work with different tribal communities and organizations, we hear a lot of common problems and concerns in those mainly focus around security. You know, security around data, security around remote users and obviously concerns about data sovereignty. So, as we work with you guys, we understand a lot of the risks that you face and the things that potentially keep you up at night. Security, of course is paramount and should always be top of mind at which I'm sure it is with you as well. Today we're going to talk a little bit about how you can support your employees that are working remotely. Our next series will be in two weeks, Protecting your Sensitive Information using Azure Information Protection and some of our other solutions around data loss prevention. And following that, we will be talking about how to strengthen your security posture with some of our other solutions. We will have a Q&A available during this seminar and do our best to answer as many questions as possible, but if we don't get to your questions right away, will be sure to follow up directly afterwards. Without further ado, I'd like to introduce by Brian Jamison, our Microsoft Security Specialist Brian. Thanks John, and thank you all for attending today. So, today we want to focus, as John mentioned, on enabling our workforce to be productive from an organizational perspective, but also to be safe and for us as an organization or you as an organization to be comfortable that the transactions and what's happening from your end user perspective is not putting the organization at risk right? And so we do that. And this is a industry wide. Term for those who are familiar with that, take 3.0 standards that come out from the federal government. For certain agencies. It is directly in line with a lot of that right, and so we'll talk about that today. How do we enable productivity with our workforce being remote sometimes, and even when they come back into the office, right? How do we ensure that that what they're doing and what's happening in the organization is safe? Secure in were able to respond to it in a decent time frame, and so we do that by embracing zero trust. Is so zero, trust really falls into three categories or is 3 principles right that zero trust falls under? Alright, so the first principle is to various verify explicitly, right? We want to we want to authenticate and we're going to look at two entities and you'll see this theme throughout today's discussion. So when your users are remote, when your contractors employees, all the type of categories of persons who interact with your organization, we want to do certain things from a verify, verify explicitly perspective. We can always authenticate him. You can always authorize them on every request, right? And we're going to look at the devices and those individuals, right? Or those identities right? And we're going to look at what they're bringing to the table. As we say, right? What Telemetry do you bring with you? And what will allow me to verify that you aren't exposing the organization to a risk, right? And that's that, looking at those various data points, location is my device healthy compliant? You know what data am I going after, right? That's part of that verification process and other any anomalies, right? We're going to talk about some of that signal that comes in from that verify, verify, explicitly swim Lane, right? The second principle of Zero Trust and again a theme. You're going to see throughout today's discussion is we want to. We want to maintain a least privilege posture when it comes to interacting with the organization, right? We always mention for those who are familiar with the Superman or Marvel Series. Right, you want to walk around his Clark Kent. That's that's the business person who doesn't have all the Superman Powers and only allow Clark Kent to be Superman right when, when necessary, or when he needs to be right. And that's that least privileged mindset just just in time and just enough access, right? We'll talk about that a little later. You also have to be in at least privilege, principle mindset. Be able to do adaptive or I. I like to call it dynamic policy's right. As my posture changes as in user, right, I could be healthy doing the proper things in the morning. But after lunch, now I'm coming in from a Tor browser. I'm coming in from a bad reputation IP, right? We have to dynamically adapt to who I am as identity or what my device is doing, and be able to protect the organization. Appropriately, and then finally the 3rd Zero Trust principle that that everything is built on what we're going to talk about today to enable your workforce to work remotely in a smart, secure manner is the assume breach, right? We not not a scare tactic, right? But but I'm sure all of you write have part of your standard operating procedures on what do we do when X happens, right? And so you have to assume that breach. Mindset right and So what does that mean right? It's not walk around being fearful. And Oh my gosh, what's going to happen right? But how do we move quickly? How do we prevent lateral movement or or or identity escalations, right? Someone going from a standard user and then that bad actor getting ahold to an administrative level of privilege account, right? How do we verify that all sessions are encrypted, right? To then minimize the blast radius if you will. Of something happened in that breach happens again and then. Lastly, more importantly, how do we use analytics right to get visibility and orchestrate Telemetry that's coming in to drive detection to drive risk mitigation right and so leave the principals that'll get you as an organization to a level where your remote contractors, employees or your remote users can securely and safely. Interact with the organization right. Verify licitly least privilege an assume breach. Now. I talked about the the the, the control strategy a bit here, but I'm going to go into it a little deeper as we move forward here. So we there's there's three things that happen all the time on every session request or that should happen all the time when every session request, right? They always get the analogy. Well, we have a VPN or you know we're coming back and we're using some direct connection from a cloud resource. Back home, you know, even if it's creating a circular route, so as long as there there were going to trust him, right? They've gotten onto the VPN. So great, well, well, well, not so fast, right? Are you able to do these things even though they're on the proper communication? Channel right, take a little look at your signal right to make an informed decision on what to do with this request right? And so is the device, and again you'll see this theme. There's two signal inputs that we constantly take a look at right. The 1st signal input is the actual. Apologize the actual device right and what's happening from a device perspective. Is it being managed? Is it compliant? Is it not compliant? Were there threats? Salt scene on that device, right? And if so, maybe I want to do something different? Is that device currently under quarantine, right? Have I seen this device before right? Those are some of the signals that come in when you're first deciding what to do in this zero trust. Access control strategy. Never trust. Always verify one the user side from a signal perspective, right? We take a look at things from you know are you? Do we have the MF a wet behavior? Have you shown as a user right? What groups are in, you know? Are you a senior level user or are you a least privileged user right? We take a look at that signal. We have to be able to collect that signal in order to make informed decision. As well as the first part of Zero Trust and how you control that access to the resources that you're going to give him access to, can you obtain this signal on every single request right now? Now that you have the signal right and you're marching through deciding what to do with this particular request from a user who's remote, now we have to do some decisions based off of your organization policy, right? So now you say. Yes, right? I'm coming from a device that is not compliant, do something right. I'm looking at that signal that I got an. I'm using my organizational policy that use an organization make from IT security Spec OPS. You know, you name it right based off of what I know. Here's how I want to treat this particular request, right, but we also have the ability in that decision frame and you'll see a little later where we can do dynamic. Or, you know, decisions right? So if I'm risky, well, how do you define risky? I'll show you that a little bit later. Is my device at risk right? And if and what is the risk score? And we you know you have to be able to take a thorough look from an analytical perspective on that signal that's coming in to make informed decisions and be able to react on every single session request. And in some of the decisions there am I going to allow for access. You know, increase assurance in my Fe limit access. They want to block altogether, right? That's the decision point that you have to make using your organizational policy. And then finally right, it's part of this zero trust access control strategy. You want to look at enforcement, right? All these things are great. I'm gathering Telemetry right on gathering signal, mapping my organizational policy too. I'm getting in from a signal perspective. I'm being dynamic, right? If I'm looking for impossible travel, I'm I've done all the heavy lifting, right? But I have to also do the enforcement piece and I can't just do it in one realm, right? And that's where we come. That's where the Zero Trust really finishes off this point of Zero Trust Access Control strategy I have to enforce that policy or that decision channel right across modern application SAS applications. Legacy applications. Or you name it right, you have to be able to then take that. What the decision point in? Do some level of enforcement that's zero. Trust access control policy strategy. OK. So there's 2 two real paradigms that that have come about. When you think about zero trust right? And and again I'll refer back to that. Take 2 auto versus take 3.0 right? Two auto was really somewhat close to this network paradigm here, and what we're talking about today is an identity base right? 00 trust policy based off of access requests and your identity right? And so I kind of marched through the differences here really quickly. So on the network side of the house, right, you're looking at Micro Segmentation of your networks, right? You're shrinking your network landscape to each server IP address. You're really marching through, and you're kind of deciding who can do web based off of what network you on and separate out important things. From a segmentation perspective. On the flip side of that right, the identity started the house. We do a dual perimeter. Right, we added emitted entities inside. Defined by authentication and authorization, we coexist with what's happened on a network, and I'll show you some examples of that right? Brian is coming in. I know who Brian is. I'm going to do some identity level signaling and decisions, but also can do some network level decisions. Is he coming from a trusted network? Is he coming from a a Geo location that's not approved right? We can do a little bit of both there and coexist together. As far as the scope right on what network paradigm to zero trust can bring to the table versus the identity paradigm and what it brings to the Zero Trust discussion it, this is really where that line you start to see the line and start to see the benefits of the identity piece right from a network perspective is sort of limited to the networks you know. Your control doesn't span beyond your micro segmentation period, right? That's where your control point lives from an identity perspective. You know you can apply this to all of your assets, whether it's in the cloud, legacy assets, assets via Proxies, right? You're all over the place. There were on what you can control the scope to where you can apply your zero trust. And so you know the differential. What makes it different here is again to scope right on where you can zero Truss is in force, and then the threat intelligence. You know how. How can you in just what's happening here in mapping and orchestrate it to other telemetry right? Whereas you'll see I'll show you in a bit here how the Zero Trust Identity paradigm, right? How it integrates behavior right from the signal perspective you can. Integrate machine learning across your assets to make decisions right? Legacy assets are protected and so you'll see how it all comes together. And so today's discussion really going to focus on that identity side and how we take care of zero trust from an identity perspective. It's the picture. If you notice in this picture and I'm I know I'm talking to my my tribal and an Alaskan native entities, right? There's nothing on this picture that says Microsoft. I don't think. Yeah so. But this is the picture weather weather your Microsoft or not, whether you vendor X or vendor Z Right? This has to be what you're shooting for. If you're going with the Zero Trust model right? And so let's March through this really quickly. Just to explain what we're looking at here, because this from this right is where we then I'm going to map you out into how we do it within Microsoft. For those of you who have M 365 E 5, you have this in your wheelhouse. You're ready to go. I can. I can March into it if you hav E3 or G3 we can talk about that and how we get you to five to really get you into this model and so. On the left here, let's look at the two things and you'll see some some things that we talked about before, right? Or are inputs right? We look at identities and devices. In the Zero Trust Model, says great. I gotta know who my identity is. But now let's let's get some information from the provider. Let's be able to do some level of multi factor authentication. As we all know from from story after story breach out to breach the theme. The general theme of all of 'em is God. Should they just had multi factor authentication on they probably could have gotten away from ex breach right? And then we take it a step further. Zero trust right? You have to be able to take a look at that user an that session and determine what the risk level is. Every single request that's part of that telemetry. That's part of what feeds into your policy evaluation piece, which we'll get to in a second. On the flip side, not only am I looking at that identity right and doing all of these things right provider mweh user in the session risk. I'm doing very similar things on the device side of the house. When you're looking at a Zero Trust Model, you have to be able to accommodate corporate devices Corp. Issued devices as well as unmanaged devices. Now some of you will say, Well, Brian, I we don't. We don't allow unmanaged devices. Into our organization is just not part of what we do and I don't know if we'll ever get there. Well, then your policy is I don't wanna manage devices touching in one of my resources. I don't even want it unmanaged device knocking at the front door. Alright, so it's still something you have to account for here now. Once we know whether your corporate issued device or an unmanaged device now is it part of your inventory, 'cause I could be a corporate issued device, but maybe I've opted out of being managed by the organization. Gotta know that I got to know the device identity. If it's a Corp device or even unmanaged device, I gotta be able to determine if this device risky and is it compliant to the compliance status that the organization is set in. The organizational policy here. Alright, so now we got all this telemetry in a zero trust model. I looked at the identity. I looked at the device, I gathered everything I needed to gather. Now let's apply that to the organizational policy, right? So you as an organization your IT admin staff or your your secops or whomever, right you guys are setting policy on how you want to deal with these two entities coming in to your environment to get access to your resources. And so you have to have zero trust model says you have to have the security enforcement for your policy has to happen real time or near real time evaluation, right? So every single request I can't come in at 8:00 o'clock, right? Make a request to get to some, send an email right and then come in at 9:00 AM and you trust me, because I was just there an hour ago? No at Zero Trust Model says. Every request I have to do real time policy evaluation, right? If you manage device anuar, AA chief information officer then I want to treat you this way, right? That's the policy that you have to be evaluated against and I'll show you an example of how we do it. All the while, while you gather in this telemetry on the identities, then the devices, all the while while you're mapping and doing the evaluation against your organizational policy, the Zero Trust Model says you have to have threat intelligence happening, right? That threat intelligence is not Brian, who's one of your best secops person. Mining through logs and running scripts and commands and trying to see if anything looks suspicious there. Right, This is real threat intelligence based off of. Trillions of bits of data that we we do that that's being recommended by the Zero Trust model is looking for orchestrated telemetry pieces, right? Think I got 10,000 devices right and I got, you know, 20,000 users right? How do I then take all of that data and determine, wait, wait, wait these five devices and need three? These three users are under some level of risk and you know what? They all kind of belong together. But that's the part of the same risk. That's that threat. Intelligence that has to be happening here during the policy evaluation period. So after you've gathered it telemetry from the identity in the device have to be able to apply threat intelligence to it, right? So now I've gotten through that I've done the the organizational policy evaluation. Now here comes the enforcement piece or the rendering of where you were trying to go as an end user, right? Whether I'm at Starbucks, whether I'm at a beach house or at home in my basement, these this is what has to happen here. So now I can say, right, you can get to your emails or your structured data, but I'm going to take a look at. I gotta be able to classify and label that data. Right part it is Zero Trust Model. Why do I need to classify unlabeled documents? Well, it's gonna get applied back to your policy evaluation right. This feed is coming from from this side as well. And so if Brian, who's coming from a corporate issue device and device is not risky in its compliant and Brian as a user in his session is not risky, right? Is trying to access data, but the data is labeled highly classified. And it should only be addressed from on Prem. Then I can still say no, right? You gotta understand what your date is and what you're dealing with before you render it to an end user. Now that matters in a zero trust Mount model. Because if I'm a bad actor right, I can limit the damage that could potentially happen because I understand my data. I know that I know as an organization that I want highly classified documents. To only be accessed by a certain group of persons on corporate devices in a network that I trust you've limited your humidity limit your risk landscape. You've reduced it and thus you've helped yourself when it comes to mitigation. Same thing for applications, right? There's high business and back applications. There's medium, there's low, there's you can do it on the application by application basis, right? You have to have that adaptive access again. Maybe I'm coming from an unmanaged device. Now I'm going to a low business impact application, great. Maybe I'm coming from a corporate device, but my devices marked non compliant. Or maybe I don't want you to get to that same application. Or maybe I want you to do something different, zero trust at its best, and the same can happen here on the infrastructure side of the house from an IaaS or pass right? Think what happens at access in runtime control to those infrastructures. Have to Blair threat protection on what's happening here right from seeing IP addresses with bad reputation? If I'm seeing communications here and things happening that that is marked as a threat, I gotta be able to identify that before I render it to an identity or device. Zero trust model. And finally, finally, while all of this is happening right, I'm I'm gathering telemetry from identities I'm gathering telemetries from the devices. I'm doing real time policy evaluation from my organizational policy. I'm looking at threat intelligence with everything that's coming in and out of this policy evaluation zone. Looking at what's coming in from Dayton, how my data is classified and encrypted, I'm looking at my apps, my infrastructure, my network. Well, all that's happening the Zero Trust Model says I gotta be able to see all of that. I gotta be able to put all this in a pond and if I get a ripple in data, I have to see it over here in devices, right? If I got Brian behaving not so nicely here when he's dealing with a certain sense application, it has to be visible and have to apply Analytics around that and be able to orchestrate all the Telemetry that's coming in from all around. And they will trust. Model says I gotta automate this. I got allow for Playbooks and in a certain level of automation right? As we all know humans can sometimes be the Chokepoint and processes or the error prone point and processes right? So how do we automate some things that we know is going to happen on a regular basis and focus our human resources on some of the more advanced hunting in advanced things that has to happen in this model. So the thinking is if I can get to this trust model, right? Haven't talked about anything Microsoft yet, but if I can get to this trust model you can be on Mars or Jupiter, hold another Galaxy an I can be assured as an organization that you're not putting me at undue risk. Will risk happened. The third part of the Zero Trust? Of course, because we have visibility and analytics across before we have automation across. Because we have automation across, we can react to any of those breaches that could happen and that we are assuming will happen in the organization because everything is visible and we're mapping out Telemetry. That's the essence of zero trust. So let's talk about how we, at Microsoft kind of view, view this and I'll quickly go over this modern approach to this access right? And so this is kind of lumping some of this together on what we just talked about, right and how we look how we view the landscape, right? So the modern process? I still got my two entities right into these. I got my user risk, right? Do I want to? FA is impossible travel happening? Unusual location. I'm looking at behavior Anna. You know, uh, anomalies here I'm integrating with threat intelligence. We just talked about that. The modern approach says, you know, I gotta look at devices, right? We talked about compliant managed versus unmanaged. Isn't infected all that signal right decisions, right? And we talked about the decision piece in here and we've got to be able to remediate the user and device risk. So if either one of these, the user or device ever be trends into a risky posture. How do we remediate that right? That and that's part of that decision realm there and then the enforcement realm. We break it into these four categories, right? Documents and data. Modern applications and protocols right so? And if you see here, you're starting to see some names pop up right. Not all Microsoft names it, and that's because zero trust mandates that right. Sudden, say Microsoft Zero Trust Model, this is zero trust doing business in your organization, right? And so you look at Office 365 dynamics 8 W. You know whatever it is from modern app and protocol perspective, it has to be able to feed into this, right? And be able to be evaluated in the like legacy applications, right? We can handle that with Proxies. You know? Opportunity reduce risk from full network access, right? We can point you directly to where you have to go via proxy or whatever the protocol and put you under the same umbrella for continuous risk evaluation and remediation. And then finally networking, right reduce the risk of using segmentation threat protection encryption. So there you go. So that's the the modern approach to that zero trust model, and so now let's talk a bit of product here. So only user side, so let's back up. So these are the two inputs here and I'm hoping that two things happen as part of this talk today that you'll remember sort of the general flow of zero trust, but more importantly that you know will send out some surveys and reach out as well. Let's have a detailed discussion about your organization and and how you doing right. Let's talk about where where you fall into this model. Are you able to get to this model? And let us let us talk it through with you in more detail, but so here. Here's where we start to plug in what we do now. I didn't mention it. I gotta slide here to talk about it before, but this piece here is the threat intelligence piece, right? Everything that we're going to show you from this point forward from a Microsoft perspective is built on what we call our Microsoft intelligent security graph, right? This number here says 6.5. I think it's 8.2. Trillion signals that we ingest per day. We see a lot. We see a lot of good activity. We see a lot of malicious activity. We see everything in between right? And we base our security decisions and we we analyze risk. A lot of based on that, signaling that we get. On top of the behavioral baselines and analytics that we have in your organization, so on the user side of the house, right, we take a look at the user and user, threaten the risk signal that the users generating. So we think of Azure Advanced threat protection here that I have listed here. That's what you're doing on your domain, right? What's Brian identity? What is he done in the domain? Has he tried to get to some privilege level accounts? But you don't have access to that will put him in a risky state, right? Is he? Is he trying to get into the machines or servers? He has no business getting into or typically hasn't gotten into before. Behavior based lining that could be risky. We take a look at cloud. What you're doing in the sass realm from a user perspective is Brian doing. You know shadow, it is he going to UN manage applications as the behavior and the not so nice manner against even applications that are corporate. Define SAS applications. We gotta know that and make that part of that user threat and risk signal. We take a look at from an Azure Advanced Azure Active Directory identity protection. Has Brian credentials been leaked on the dark web right? What behavior have we seen from Brian's identity even out in the social realm? Is it part of some other attack or breach somewhere else? Once we've gathered that right, we can make that part of Brians user and session risk and feed it. Here, until the conditional access, we take a look at how Brian authenticated right and should we apply MF a right? What are you doing on the front and hello for business on the windows machine right? Azure multi factor authentication? We feed that into part of your decision making process. And the device perspective and allow these a lot of lot of my tribe, tribal customers and Alaska native customers are using quite a bit of this and This is why these we picked these topics because a this is working remotely as super important this day and time. But be a lot of lot of you guys already have a lot of these solutions in house. Just amount of putting together and falling under this zero trust mindset. So from a device perspective, right? I'm looking using my. Eddie, are you know my endpoint detection and risk mitigation? I'm looking looking at my Evie perspective to see if this device is risky or poses a threat to the organization, right? I can use some some partners for my MDM on my mobile landscape. Well, I'm using in tune right to take a look at my morning. My mobile landscape I I can take both my my PC's and my mobile landscape and decide whether it's compliant or not based off of policy. Right, I can take a look at these the mobile or the desktop landscape and decide is it managed right. Is it part of my domain right? Is it hybrid AAD joined or what? Have you write feed that into my signal that we get and so already we have you covered from AM 365 E pot 5 perspective on gathering the needed signal to March through this zero trust Mount set. In the in the decision piece, we have Azure Active Directory conditional access right? And you see that here we can accommodate your B to B customers that if you have any we can ingest your policy organization policy right? We can increase trust by you come in with no MF a, but because you're going maybe somewhere get into a highly confidential document or high business impact application. Maybe you want to push back and say you know what I want to increase the trust of you, Brian. Why don't you MF a for me? And if you successfully complete multi factor authentication then we can talk and proceed right? That's what you get with conditional actions there. As part of that decision based on organizational policy. We can do things like Re Mediate Lee credentials, right? So if we think Azure Active Directory identity protection thinks or believes that you have weekly Lee credentials, we can ask user in user hey why don't you change your password? We believe that you may have been compromised so you change your password and if you successfully change your password then and only then can we continue along your path, right? That's decisions. That's real activity. There's Zero Trust is giving you as an organization to respond and react accordingly to things that pop up during this process. Then finally. When you talk about rendering your applications, your your cloud access right we can from Annapolis sass application perspective. We can lower access or restrict sessions right? Of course that happens with our Microsoft applications, right? 'cause we're tightly integrated what we're doing here in M365. And so if if I'm coming from an unmanaged device and I'm coming from a, you know my Home Office, I can. I can lower your access or restrict what you can do. In the Office 365 suite. Right, we have Azure Resource manager that takes care that was happening in the cloud, right? We have cloud app security which is our keasbey that can do conditional access, write an extension of what you've done here organizationally from a policy perspective and apply that to your SAS applications. We can also apply that to any other modern applications that you may have as well as through our Azure Active Directory application proxy. We can apply that same logic and conditional access app control to your legacy applications, right? We're checking the boxes here with this zero trust user access and then finally we take a look at your documents and we can apply labeling and classification. We can encrypt documents based off of your organizational policy. We can do DLP for you. Write all those those controls over the documents that zero trust mandates we can accomplish. O'briens typing a document he puts in it. You know, some PCI data. It Dings against. Your organizational policy says I well, since you have pid data in this document, we're going to label this confidential internal organization only. Brian then attempts to maybe save this to a non approved sass application source and we block it. That's the coordination vest is Zero Trust Access Best M 365 E 5 and then finally in the mobile space right? We can take a look at your mobile apps approve apps. We can look at what's happening in your mobile landscape and apply those same conditional access rules on what you can do on your mobile device in win. Takes care of zero trust altogether gives you takes care of your signal, your decision and your enforcement. This is M365. Now I mentioned briefly conditional access and just want to March through here on what you get from an Azure Active Directory conditional access perspective. Again, this is the main piece that's going to interpret your organizational policy right? So we look at 4 levels of feed. Here we look at, you, know your identity, right? Are you employ a partner? What's your role, right? We take a look at your device. Is it trusted as a compliant? Right, and these are the. How we accomplish that and what what can be fed into it? We take a look at your physical and virtual location, right? Your Geo location. Are you on a trusted network? Not trusted network? We take a look at your your client app and authentication method, right? How you're coming in. We take a look at all of that. And then we do apply some things to it again, 40 Terabytes of data coming in from a conditional access perspective. We apply machine learning to all of that. We, we applied your policy's to all this Telemetry. We just gather, then we do some as zero trust says, we do. Some real time evaluation based off of what we know globally and what we as Microsoft see, based off of the base lining and behaviour normalization that that's happening in your environment, and we apply some session risk to what you have. What's going on here as part of this request? And so we are risk levels go from one if you will to five right for most of its session, wrist, even user risk. And so here's what that dynamically change can happen from a zero trust perspective. Brian comes in all things being equal, trusted device got the location but. His behaviors been off. He typically authenticates 8, not 8:00 AM to 10:00 AM, Monday through Friday. No send is Saturday night at three in the morning, and he looks like he's coming in from New Zealand. That may take your wrist or up. If it does, you as an organization can have a policy that says 3 and below were fine, just go carry on his business as usual. If you ever get a secession risk of four, maybe in my thing, or if you ever get a session risk of five, then maybe we just want to block you out right and flag somebody right. That's the dynamic adaptability piece that we talked about. That has to be part of zero trust. And then finally controls. Now that we know something now that we've applied risk scores and we've gathered Telemetry, here's what we can do across all of these mediums here. Allow limit require MF a right to what's happening in the Microsoft side of the house to modern apps. And cloud says applications to even on Prem, another web applications using proxies. So I got a couple of slides here. Then I just want to walk you through briefly a quick show until one on the console here, just to kind of look around for those who need a refresher again, most of you are using M365, either G, G3 or G5, but. What we offer to accommodate zero trust and to get you to that mindset is our Microsoft 365 and it covers 4 main columns. If you will write or solution areas, I am adding access management. We we cover your information protection from DOP to labeling and classification and cover cloud security. What we do in the cloud space and we cover threat protection. And if you as you can see here and I want to go through all of it, but we can and we integrate up to 40 security categories, anti phishing, right threat, intelligence feeds, DLP you know device encryption, right? You name it. This is what M365 brings to the table. This is how we can get you to a zero trust mindset from an identity perspective. I mentioned it once before, but it's really worth mentioning again. All 40 of those solution areas that I just showed you all for the core columns from I am to threat to cloud to protecting your information. All of that security and intelligence that we throw at those solutions are all built on this right and this is unique to Microsoft. I think again the numbers up to 8 over 8 trillion signals per day. Unparallel breath of what we provide by way of what we see. Every day from 200 million mobile devices to 630 billion identities that we deal with right 600 billion documents right on down the line. And so we see trends we said see bad your reputation URLs. We see binaries. We see behaviors that are malicious or otherwise. And we build that into the fabric of our security solutions to give you the best threat intelligence possible. As an organization. And so once again, these are the four areas I won't repeat this too much here, but these are the columns. Again. We I would love to talk and more detail with each of you who have an interest who wanted potentially get to zero trust, right? This is how you get there. If you got Microsoft 365 Enterprise E5 or G5, you have it. It's just a matter of now how do we. How do we set it up? How do we implement it? And get going with Zero Trust and really make that remote workforce less of a headache and literally give you more control and more security in what you do. This is big picture. This is what we do across M. 365, but now we talk about the Azure side and infrastructure in AI as in the past room, right? And what we do from a scene perspective when you want to bring in IoT and another cloud entities. This is how the big picture fits into it and how we look at overall to accomplish your mission even outside of M 365. So now it I'll pause here while I go to my screen just to show you really quick the console without policy of John and or bill have captured any pressing questions that need to be answered as of yet. No, not at this time, Brian. OK, so. And John, just a quick check. You can see my browser screen. Yes, we can see it. Thank you, thank you. And so this hopefully is review again for a lot of you. I wanted to show you how all of those things, how it Telemetry rolls up right, and for those who were able to attend or will will review the our last workshop. We talked about threat protection and mitigation and we kind of went over some of this, but this is how all that to limit you. All those products that we showed you, those 40 solution areas and those four core areas between. I am and threat protection and information protection an. You know, right on down the line cloud they they can't operate in an island. They have to be in the same pond and and share Telemetry and orchestrate results and this is the result of that integration here on what we do with M365 right? So at a glance I can see right? I got 21% of my devices in a non compliant state. OK, that's interesting. 13 users at risk, right? I got 8 devices at risk, right? Users with threat detection, right? Right on down the line we're sharing that Telemetry were bubbling up to a single source, right? We even go beyond that. We we give you the ability we give you the ability here to we create incidents for you. So we gather. Telemetry, we gather alerts right and I'll use this first one. As an example, we gather alerts across and. As you can see here, we got alerts across all of the fees that we get in your environment. In this particular incident, we've got gathered alerts and it looks like I've gathered 59 alerts. Now this is 59 alerts out of thousands and thousands of alerts and I did. The sources of those alerts come from on Prem. When your domain controllers with Azure Advanced threat protection, we've gathered from their threat intelligence with our overall Microsoft threat protection, we've gathered sources and alerts from your EDR, which is our defender product. Microsoft defender advanced threat protection. We've gathered some alerts that started as one incident from your cloud space with our Cosby Microsoft cloud app security or antivirus have picked up on some things that belong to the same incident. Right, which is part of that defender suite as well as we've gathered some Telemetry from office advanced threat protection, think fishing, think safe attachments and that sort of thing. So we've said you know customer, right? We've done the threat intelligence for you. We've done some orchestration and we believe that 59 alerts belong together and they are all part of the same incident. But let's take a look. And so when I take a look at his incident, it walks me literally walks me through the Mitre attack framework, write an give me dates behind it, right post delivery, detection of suspicious attachment by this user on this PC, right email message containing malware. What we did with it, how we mitigate it, what everything that happened is part of data type framework, right? We give you the incident. Information associated incident, maybe incidents that were similar to this that that happened on another day or the same user right? And it tags that we used right? We give you information. We give you information on here's the 59 alerts, right? You know, here's why we flagged these alerts right post delivery debt detection of suspicious attachment right on down the line, suspicious process injection, injection observed. Here's the devices that were part of this incident. Mind you, I'm clicking once here to gather all of this information. That's why we, Microsoft, and our threat protection gather all this information together for you. This is all part of that zero trust. If you remember from the earlier chat we talked about everything that you do in Zero, Trust has to be analyzed as one has to be automated and visible throughout. This is the result of that visibility is 1 mailbox involved. This this particular incident kicked off 6 investigations right? A hack tool was used mimikatz, right user, an IP address reconnaissance, SMB write it. Failed, but this is who captured it. Azure Advanced threat protection on your domain controllers. A suspicious last elsass process access on your workstation, right? Right on down the line. We even to finish it up. We give you the evidence. On top of the alerts that we got from our systems and from our solutions, here are the emails. Here are the files. The processes in the IP addresses. I didn't run one script, I I I it didn't take me an hour. It took me less than 3 minutes to look at this incident. Have everything correlated, CD evidence and give me a great insight and point me in the right direction towards resolution. Finally. I'll take a look on the cloud app security side of the house right in this last couple minutes. I got here. We give you this information from your SaaS realm, right? And I'm just choosing one of the pieces as part of that zero trust, right? We got, you know, 29 alerts. Right? Suspected skeleton alert, risky sign and from an unfamiliar location there are 68 files infected that came across your sass environments, right? I can go one step further and I'll finish with this page here. On alerts Sorry so on my alerts. I I I bubble up right away, suspected skeleton key attack, right encryption downgrade, right risky sign in from an unfamiliar sign-in prompt. This is all happening in my stash world again. Visibility, threat, analytics and this is what you get as part of your zero trust architecture. And so again, I know there's a lot to it. I sort of went fast here, but I I just want to leave you with this screen here. As we closeout. Zero trust is achievable. It is really a great way to look at enabling your remote workforce. It's a great way to up the ante when it comes to being able to respond to threats, verifying explicitly, and really doing business in a more secure realm. If you have Microsoft 365 E 3, you close. If you have Microsoft 365 E 5 or G5, you have this solutions under your umbrella. We'd be happy to talk to you. And happy to have a more personal conversation to get you to a zero trust mindset. And with that John I think we can close unless there's any further questions. No questions at this time, but again, Brian, that was excellent. We appreciate everyone's time today. And again, please reach out if you just want to have a conversation, talk about what you currently have, where your concerns might lie, you know we're here for you. We want to protect you. We want to keep everyone as safe as possible, so please anytime reach out. 