 [MUSIC PLAYING] Hello and welcome to SAP TechEd 2020. My name is Mathias Klein. I'm a Senior Quality Specialist at SAP. And I'm happy that I am here together with Holger Bruchelt from Microsoft. Hello, Holger. Hello, Mathias. Thanks for having me. Yeah, my name is Holger Bruchelt. And I'm a Program Manager for SAP here at Microsoft. OK. Thank you, Holger for introducing yourself. So in this session, we will talk about how you can move your SAP ERP system from on premise to Microsoft Azure and by doing the conversion to SAP S/4HANA at the same time. So let's have a short look at the agenda. So first of all, I would like to take you through our introduction about SAP's multi-cloud strategy, then Holger will talk about the benefits of moving to Microsoft Azure. And he will also show you a little demo of the Azure portal. Then we will talk about preparations, which you have to do if you want to run the SAP S/4HANA conversion on your ERP system. And we will take a look at the currently available options, which you can use to move the system from on premise to any hyperscaler. And then at the end, we will have a short outlook at a joint project, which we have, we, as SAP, together with Microsoft. So let's get started right away with the introduction. So, why are we talking about moving ERP systems to a hyperscaler, in this case to Microsoft Azure? What we have seen is that we have now our-- SAP has its own cloud infrastructure like you, for sure, know. And of course, there are these hyperscalers out there in the market like Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services, and Alibaba Cloud. And we see that more and more customers are interested in moving to the hyperscalers. And what we say is, we are where our customers are. So if our customers want to move their ERP systems to Microsoft Azure, then this is fine for us. And what we have seen because I just said that we see more and more movement in that direction is here these two polls, where you can see that 84% of enterprises already have a multi-cloud strategy. So you can see enterprises with a size greater than 1,000 employees, they already taking a look at hybrid cloud scenarios here in that case. And what you also can see on the right hand poll here, that 31% of enterprises see public cloud as their top priority. And for us, of course, this is the reason that we have to take a look at how we can support you in doing that move, because we can see there is demand. And now, I will hand over to Holger, which will tell you why it might be a good idea to run your SAP system on Azure. And he will also show you a demo of the Azure Portal. Holger, it's up to you. Thank you, Mathias. Yeah, they're basically three pillars that I want to talk about when it comes to why you should run your SAP workload on Microsoft Azure. And the first one is all about the partnership between SAP and Microsoft. For over 25 years, we've worked extremely closely together, starting with running early SAP versions on Windows Server, working with SQL Server on SAP, and so on. This actually resulted in the situation that Microsoft runs SAP, but not only that. We've migrated all of our more than 700 virtual machines that we use for SAP already to Azure two years ago. Similarly, SAP is running a lot of their internal SAP systems on Azure as well. The next thing is that SAP and Microsoft are really collaborating on joint reference architectures, joint design sessions, and integrated offerings, including the SAP HANA Enterprise Cloud. So by this, we really bring the customer the best experience of running their SAP and Microsoft workloads together. This can also be seen in a lot of co- innovation areas where we look at IoT scenarios, Artificial Intelligence, and also other software as a service solutions. When we then look at the infrastructure, then you can see that Azure provides up to 12 terabytes of HANA-certified Virtual Machines that are available worldwide in multiple regions across the globe. So this means if you can start with a smaller SAP footprint, like using virtual machine that only has half a terabyte of memory, for example, then you can grow this over time by just resizing your virtual machines up to these 12 terabytes of memory. Similarly, when we look at even bigger workloads, we have so-called HANA large instances that allow you to run 24 terabytes, single node in one instance. Or when it comes to scale out scenarios, we can actually scale up to 60 terabytes of memory or 100 terabytes using TDI version 5. So you can see that there's really a lot of room where you can actually grow and run your SAP applications. Finally, the last point is compliance and security. Similarly like SAP, Microsoft is putting a lot of focus on topics like compliance and security. Azure has actually the largest compliance portfolio with over 90 compliance offerings, including tools for General Data Protection Regulations, GDPR. If we look at the availability, we can also see the huge growth of Azure that happened in recent months and in years, actually. Azure is available in over 60 regions worldwide. And each of these regions contains out of multiple data centers. All these data centers and regions are connected by an Azure network that allows customers to seamlessly connect their SAP systems across the world. We are also going more and more local. So customers can benefit not only from the global presence of Azure, so having regions in the US, in Europe, and Asia-Pacific, but at the same time, we also hear a clear request for localized regions. That's for example why we have already announced new regions in Mexico, Israel, Spain, or Greek. And we introduced regions already in Germany, Switzerland, France, and in several other areas in recent months. We are working with hundreds of global and local ExpressRoute partners to make sure that you can connect your on-prem SAP systems with the Azure network. These ExpressRoute partners allow you to create dedicated ExpressRoute connections from your on-prem environment to Azure. By using these private connections, we can ensure high-throughput, increased reliability, and very low latency to ensure that your business critical SAP systems are accessible in the most performant and scalable manner. Similarly, when we look at security at Microsoft, we have over 3,500 full-time security professionals that use the trillions of signals that we receive every day to ensure that we can detect attacks, viruses, and other security breaches in a very fast and efficient way. For this, Microsoft is investing $1 billion every year just in cyber security. So we see a lot of customers that start obviously with their infrastructure on-premise. As a first step in their cloud journey, they just migrate and convert their existing SAP landscapes into Azure on a pure infrastructure as a service component, Especially when converting directly from ERP to S/4HANA. The benefit from the wide variety of virtual machines available on Azure. They can just pick, and choose, and resize the required memory footprint for the SAP systems. Once they are running their SAP and other products on Azure, they start to explore more serverless components. These components can then leverage platform as a service and serverless technologies from the SAP cloud platform and obviously, also Azure to get even more out of their cloud investments. In the end, all these innovations, very often, also lead into low or no code solutions that really enable all employees to create applications quickly. The central entry point for this on the Microsoft side is the Azure portal. So with this, let's take a look. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] - Let's take a look at Azure portal. The Azure portal is the central place where you can create and manage all resources in Azure. This can be a database, machine learning services like our cognitive services, or like what we want to focus on right now, a virtual machine. There's a huge range of different types of virtual machines, different operating systems that we can select and choose from, but also a lot of different sizes of virtual machines. These virtual machines can start with one virtual CPU and one gigabyte of memory, but really scale up to very, very high virtual machines that have literally hundreds of virtual CPUs and tens of terabyte of memory. So these virtual machines allow you to really create SAP environments from very small to really, really very high systems. Now, if I don't want to select one of these simple operating systems, then I can also go to the Azure marketplace. And there, if I search for SAP, there's a huge range of available templates available. Of course, I can use an SAP HANA Express Edition and deploy directly here from Azure. But I can also select very SAP-specific operating systems, like for example in this case, Red Hat Enterprise Linux for SAP or different SUSE Linux flavors. I can even select here an SUSE Enterprise Linux for SAP with full support from SUSE directly here from the Azure portal. I can have different plans available for this. And I can even start a preset configuration directly here from the Azure portal. I can select what I want to deploy a Dev/Test environment, or production, and also here different pre-built T-shirt sizes to immediately get started. If I want to have a little more control, that I can also use one of these Azure Quickstart Templates. These Azure Quickstart templates are available for a huge set of different scenarios. So for example, I could install a SharePoint environment directly here, leveraging one of our templates here. These templates are all based on these ARM Templates, Azure Resource Manager Templates and provide me a quick way to install complete infrastructures. Now, the beautiful thing is that these templates are not only available here in the marketplace, but actually they're all hosted on GitHub. And that means I can really go down into the different files. So I can really download the required JSON files. I can make some modifications if required. And then once I'm ready, I can just click on Deploy to Azure. And this ARM template will be deployed to my Azure portal. So I'm redirected now to the Azure portal. And from the Azure portal, I can continue some configurations. So for example, I could specify the SAP system identifier. I can select different operating systems like Windows, SUSE, Red Hat, or even Oracle Linux to get started. And I can select some of these T-shirt sizes, which we have clustered in different SAPS ranges. Once I've selected all this, I can just click on Review and Create. And the infrastructure for my new SAP NetWeaver 2-tier environment would be directly deployed in Azure. Now, this only takes care of the pure infrastructure, so the virtual machines and the network configuration. But we also have on GitHub scripts available that allow me to automatically deploy a full SAP environment. We're using Ansible and Terraform scripts. And again, all of these scripts are available here on GitHub. So I can use them as a good template to get started. I can download them. I can modify them if required. And then use them to not only install the infrastructure, but to also really deploy a full set of my SAP environment directly in Azure. Now these environments will be plain clean SAP environments. If I want to go one step further and also have some demo content, then I can also use the SAP Cloud Appliance Library to deploy full solutions and full SAP solutions directly in Azure. So what I've done here already is I've deployed an SAP S4/HANA 1909 solution in Azure. And here for example, you can see the result in Fiori Launchpad so I could go here now to my business users. And they could immediately start experience and testing some new features of S/4HANA. But if we take a look behind the scene and take a look of what was actually deployed in Azure, then I can see here the different resources. So I can see virtual machines. I can see disks that were created, public IP addresses. All of this was automatically created by the Cloud Appliance Library from SAP. Now, if I take a look, for example, at this SAP3 virtual machine, I can see that this is a HANA box, running, obviously, the HANA database of my S/4 HANA system. I can see that the environment is based on SUSE Linux 12 Service Pack 3. But the beautiful thing now is that I can now also use Azure features, native Azure features to manage this environment. So for example, I can create a backup off this SAP solution. And this is not only necessarily an virtual machine Azure backup. But I can also really take an SAP-specific backup. Meaning, I can use a backend certified interface to connect to the SAP HANA database and really make a HANA database backup. Another beautiful feature that is built-in into Azure is the Azure Monitor for SAP solution. So instead of just monitoring the metrics of a virtual machine, I can create so-called providers that allow me to connect to the actual SAP system to the actual SAP HANA system and retrieve information for the database that are running there. So with this information, I have really visibility into my SAP HANA systems. And I can see, for example, that there is a certain server name. But it can also drill down and take a look at some of these services that are actually running on this SAP HANA system, like the index server, the script server, and so on. I can also use this information to track and get some additional telemetry information on what is actually happening, not only on a virtual machine layer, but also really take a look at what is actually happening in the SAP HANA system. So with this, I hope I could give you a quick overview of what the Azure portal is and how you can deploy different components to run your SAP landscape in Azure. With all the tools and script that we have available in GitHub, it really simplifies the way how you can get started and create your SAP landscapes in Azure, which is obviously the first step for a migration scenario that we'll discuss in the next steps. [END PLAYBACK] Thank you, Holger, for these very interesting insights into Microsoft Azure and thank you for the demo as well, of course. Like I said at the beginning, the goal of this project is that we have an S/4HANA system running in Azure at the end of the procedure. So this is our goal. This also means that we have to take some preparations on the ERP system to make sure that the SAP S/4HANA conversion is running smoothly. So let's have a look, a short look really-- only a short look at the tools available to support you in the conversion to SAP S/4HANA. So we have the SAP Readiness Check, which is an optional tool, but we nevertheless highly recommend to use it. So this tool checks the readiness of your ERP system for the conversion to SAP S/4HANA. It gives you an overview of the things which need to be done on your ERP system to make sure that the conversion runs smoothly. And it helps you to plan your transition to SAP S/4HANA. Then we have the Maintenance Planner. This is a mandatory tool. So this does two things. It, first of all, checks your ERP system for the compatibility of add-ons and business functions used. And it takes a look at the system from a software component point of view. So it plans the conversion to SAP S/4HANA calculates the required software archives you need to run the upgrade to S/4HANA. And then we have the Simplification Item Checks. Those have to be implemented into the ERP system. And in a difference to the maintenance planner, this is not looking from a software point of view, from components, software component point of view. This is taking a look at the functional aspects of your system, like data consistency, customizing, and so on. And this helps you to determine which simplification items are relevant for your ERP system in which you have to take care about to make sure that the conversion runs. This is a important step because the Software Update Manager is executing the simplification item checks as well. And if they are not green, a green traffic light, then the Software Update Manager will abort the conversion process. And then in the end, we have the custom code adaptation, which helps you to check your custom coding and makes sure that your custom code will run as expected on your SAP S/4HANA system after the conversion. It also offers some filter functionality and quick fixes for the most common adoptions required in the custom coding. There are some other sessions here, which will give you much more detail about those tools. You can see here. And you can find them also later on at the end of the slides. Now, let's take a look at the currently available options. So if you now want to move your ERP system to Microsoft Azure, how can you do that? Well, there are actually two ways. The first thing is if your SAP ERP system is not yet running on SAP HANA, in that case, we, as SAP, recommend you to use the Database Migration Option of the Software Update Manager with system move. And please keep in mind that using the Database Migration Option without system move for a migration across data centers, this is not supported. So please make sure you use DMO with system move. There are some restrictions and limitations. If you want to use this option. One is that your source system, if it's already running on SAP HANA DB, then you cannot use the system move. The second thing is the target DB for the target data center, it has to be either SAP HANA database or the SAP Adaptive Server Enterprise, or in short SAP ASE. Those are the only two target databases supported. And then it's not possible to change the system ID of your system during this procedure. So it will stay the same. You can find more information in the SAP Note listed here. And I already mentioned it. So if your system is already running on SAP HANA database, you cannot use the system move. In that case, you can use SAP HANA system replication to migrate the database to Microsoft Azure. I will now go through both scenarios in more detail. And at first, we take a look at the Database Migration Option with system move and how it works. So this is our starting point. We see on the left hand side, we have our on-premise data center where our ERP system is running. And in this case, I just said it's running on any DB. This means it's running on any database, which is supported by the SAP ERP system according to the product availability matrix. Except, like I mentioned before, SAP HANA database. So what we do then is on Azure, we prepare our environment to function as a target system for the migration or for the conversion. In that case, we have to install an SAP HANA database on Azure. And we also have to install a new SAP S/4HANA system. So it's a fresh installation of an SAP S/4HANA system, which has to be in the same target version as you planned in the maintenance planner. The next step is then that you start the Software Update Manager on your on-premise ERP system. And the Software Update Manager does the usual things for the conversion, like preparing the system for the conversion and already doing as much as possible during the uptime. Then some point of time, we then will reach the downtime phase of the procedure. You can see it here marked as a red box. And then we perform the migration export. This means we're reading all the data from the source database on-premise and writing the export files into a folder of the Software Update Manager. If you have done that, completed that step, we now have to transfer these files to the target system on Azure. And there are several ways how you can do that. You can copy the files over the network. This is one possibility. You can either use FTP or secure copy, whatever you prefer. You can also use the parallel data transport mode, which is available in the Software Update Manager saying as one package has finished on the source system. You can already import it on the target site on Azure. And of course, there is also the option to put the export data on an external disk and use Express shipment to the new data center to use this way to get the data over because sometimes Express shipment has a better bandwidth than the Wide Area Network. After you have copied the files to the target system on Azure, you then start the Software Update Manager on Azure. And here, it will pick up the migration export and import all the data into the SAP HANA database. After that, the conversion downtime will take place saying that all the data is converted into the new SAP S/4 HANA data model. Then after the Software Update Manager has finished, you do the usual post conversion tasks like doing this, SAP S/4HANA Simple Finance Migration, and et cetera. And after that, you have an S/4 HANA system running on Azure. So this is using system move to do that. The other thing which I was talking about is the SAP HANA system replication. So like we can see here on this slide, on the left hand side, on-premise data center, we have our ERP system. But in this case, it's already running on SAP HANA database. So what we can do now is that we go ahead and install an SAP HANA database on Azure. And then we set up HANA system replication to replicate all data from on-premise HANA database to the target HANA database on Azure. And you can do that while your business is up and running, business users are on the system. Of course then, one fine day, you will reach the maintenance weekend. And so this means in that case, you will then stop your ERP system on-premise, make sure that the remaining delta is replicated to the target HANA database on Microsoft Azure. And then we split up this replication. We install an ERP primary application server in Azure, which is connected to the SAP HANA database on Azure. And then we have our ERP system up and running on Azure. The only thing which is now left is to start the Software Update Manager on Azure and to perform the S/4HANA conversion in that environment. And also here, after the procedure, you have your ERP system moved to Azure, and you did the conversion to SAP S/4HANA in one business downtime. If you have more questions about this HANA system replication, feel free to get in contact with your Microsoft Azure counterpart. For them, this is already business as usual. They already do it. So they can for sure assist you here, in that task. And now, let's have Outlook at what we are currently doing. I already said at the beginning that we have a joint project together with Microsoft. And the goal of this project is that we want to explore new technology options for cost-effective one-step conversion from ERP on-premise to SAP S/4HANA on Microsoft Azure. We also want to identify potential measures to keep the business downtime as low as possible in the same step. And we also want to identify automation potential so that we can make sure that the procedure is as smooth and easy as possible for you. We plan to publish a white paper jointly together with Microsoft where we give you detailed guidance on how you can run this new procedure, what you have to do, and to give you some guidance on which way you can do it best. Please stay tuned because we are currently in the middle of this project. We're still working on it. So this is why we set up a dedicated webinar. This is planned for January 2021. So if you are interested to get more details, and you want the full details, and maybe also already we have the white paper until that point in time, just feel free, drop me a mail. I will send you the registration information and then we will see you in January again. So with that, we almost reach the end of the presentation here for the sake of completeness where you can find more information. Like I said, we have these two sessions by Boris Rubarth DT101 and 102 where you get the full details about the SAP S/4HANA conversion. And we have also a session DT 114 by Peter Datsichin where you can also get a closer look at the tools I shortly introduced to you to prepare the SAP S/4HANA conversion. There are also some public websites with more information. For example, I have here the blog about DMO with system move. Here, you can see how you can use the system move in a little bit more details. And of course, there's the official guide for the Software Update Manager, which is available on the SAP Help Portal. So with that, thank you for your attention. I hope you find the information provided useful. And of course, a special thank you also to Holger Bruchelt from Microsoft. Thank you for telling us everything we have to know about running SAP on Microsoft Azure. [MUSIC PLAYING] 