 We were quite active in some country in Africa. Let's begin, guys. If we consider Switzerland's performance in terms of innovation, there is every reason to be cheerful. In international innovation rankings, our country has been among the frontrunners for a number of years. But even though Switzerland is very well placed in terms of research and innovation we face increasing international pressure. Countries like the U.S., China, Germany and France are making enormous efforts and invest billions. If we want to keep up, we will need above all entrepreneurship. Petar, do you have a second? - What's up? So, regarding the pitch, it's ten minutes. Brussels, the Commission provides a full list of questions for example how we address gender balances and stuff like this. All these social questions, that's something that we need to apply. The jury is usually six or seven people and two moderators. It's ten minutes pitch and ten minutes Q&A. He highly advised that both founders show up, that's easy for us. And what's more important than economic impact is social impact, that's what they want to see. In case your technology reduces CO2, mention this. In case it improves life, mention this. In case it's a green technology, mention this. Nice. What do you reckon, three millimeter wall thickness for a hand? So the first statements of interest are already coming in. Nice. This looks fantastic. Hello! Super! Did we already mark this one? I think we did. This is really genius. The pump and the water bath, should I already start them? Sure. I guess it will take two hours. In the afternoon it should be done. The hammer was hidden somewhere. Should I hold it? - No, it's okay. They shared with us a report about the chimney that they inspected a while ago. It's a hundred meters high, and the idea would be to collect point measurements on each section. So here, before we start pitching, this should be okay. This should be good enough to fly in my opinion. We should be okay. In 400 meters, turn right. Hi Peter, it's Michela. Question: Where should I park the car? This is the other company. We are now working with several brands and manufacturers on the traceability of all natural textile fibers. Not just cotton, also wool and cashmere. How can you be sure that this is working out for you as something that brings you profit? Consumers are more aware of environmental and social issues associated with garment manufacturing. They want to make sure that what they buy is not only authentic but also produced according to certain standards. To ensure that the standards are respected you have to provide full transparency, and that's what we can do. No, we have to do this again. Grants are hit or miss on whether we get them or not, but we should have the demonstrator built by summer. This is going to impact our fund raising at the end of the year. So you read it then? Yes, I just skipped through it, so we just need to read it and make sure everything is okay. There's a few comments that we need to respond to. But it's mostly about the financials, right? Of course we need to make profit to survive, but for us it wouldn't be that big of an issue if we cut a little bit on our margin, basically our gain to take a step more forward on the sustainability part and make sure that our process works in a way that it should, not is just profitable no matter what the cost is. As soon as the market realized that, we will have the advantage of leading the new way for plastic recycling. Yeah, I definitely agree. I think we should either do a franchising model, so we have still control over the company and we make sure it has the sustainability roots. We don't give it to somebody who is just going to abuse it or make bad product and sell it under our name, this sort of stuff we have to be careful with. And then eventually, at some point we'll all either retire either we'll sell the company or... ... or we take over the world. What we are doing in China is very important. Hopefully, with all the support, we can be the biggest edge computing company in the world. In three years? - Not in three years, but maybe in five to ten years. We want something like $100 million value of the company in the future. In the next step, we're going to set up the mother company in Chengdu. Smart surveillance, smart wearables, home robots, and drones. There will be one other topic that is missing here: VLSI, neuromorphic computer chips. We're not targeting these applications now, but in the future for sure this can be used for drones or robots. What about hiring in Switzerland? How many more people can we hire? You know, the main issue is the cost. People who join us here, the cost initially and the salary is a bit high. It is difficult to transfer money from China here, so we have to control the size, currently. That could be a problem in the long term. That's a stent. We probably need to shrink these. Look at the surface finish, see this? I like it. Sharp. That's an aortic root with the heart valve, and that's one without the heart valve. That's a tracheal stent, it goes into your trachea and keeps it open. Oli? Can you look at the gold presentation? What do you think about this slide? I want a standard design for all the slides, so this is maybe not detailed enough. Look, also this slide, better use it later when we describe what we do, otherwise, it is too repetitive. Okay, how about I do it like this... This is a small one, this is a medium one. We'll have a bigger one here. Why don't you use that one? Do you want to use that one for the 161? What's the size of that one? 188. Ideally, that's good, because it's real. Yeah, it's a real life sample. Are all these PET? It looks like they are all different things. Like this one, I'm not sure, what this is. It doesn't even say anything. It might be on the bottom. We should just take it, shred it and use it. It looks like it's been in the rain for some time. Did somebody take out label off? No, I haven't put it on. I don't think anybody would care about this, it's just trash. No instrument or anything. There's a whole bunch on my desk that are smaller quantities. Is it done, this batch? - Yeah, I think so. Okay, I can get it to the furnace. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Let me know if you need any further informations on the membranes. We would be of course happy to help you and support you there. Of course, for you as well. Have a good day. The membranes had white stripes on top and through the middle. It was very bad. It's number 37. - Do we have that one here, too? - Yes, we do. Apparently we are one of the most demanded startups there from the investor side. No pressure. This means six investors already signed up for the speed dating to meet you, to meet us. So we have this roll-up poster that you can just bring. The pitch has all the questions, it's ten slides, you can just go through it step by step. You know the story, we have discussed it anyways already for quite some time. The other part is super casual, then you can go whenever you think it's not interesting anymore. And then you take the day off. I think it's until five o'clock or something. Is it broken? It's broken, completely. But look, if you do this... It's not enough. The problem is, it goes unstable. Look, it goes crazy, completely, which is odd. Sometimes, but it's not happening all the time. Now it happend. Yeah, if I do this, it's only if I move in this direction. Yeah, now I see. We have an area here, which is not firing at all. It's weird. Just record them, which ones they are, and then we can just kill them. It's a wave pattern. It cannot really generate high noise here. The rest of the digital circuitry is... they have a fast rise and fall transition but this sections, they don't. Also this gets digital data. No, it is if you have two over here, it goes to the gate of that inverter. Whenever I move my finger from bottom to up, I see the image moving from bottom to up. No, this is what I'm telling you. Boom. No! As soon as you're on contact, it's basically okay. And what if you enter Vicon as vision heading? When we used MC Custom, we should have gotten into this loop. But if external vision is true, we never enter the loop. As soon as I push more it makes this weird jump. I have no explanation for this. This parameter is completely off. It's much too weak if you make a whole rotation. This angle should be zero, this error here. Quickly in the microwave. Does he really want it room temperature? I can't have room temperature whisky. Check this out, that's actually nice. Cheers. I like how he's already used to it. Which? It's not impressive anymore. I see these things all the time, you know. In the end, what's the point in printing if you don't have crazy structural properties? Because anyone can print, seemingly. How are for example M&Ms and stuff made. How do you color or coat things? I have no idea how they go about that. I really wonder. Imagine some kind of pipe that's filled with almost silicone vapor, and you just drop it. That's what you need. 