 It's great to be here with you, Andy, and talking about fungal communication. Which is such an important subject and one which we really don't have that much of an idea about. Fungi are peculiar in a number of ways, but one of their peculiarities is that they have these distributed bodies and indeterminate patterns of growth. And so there's no 'a place', where – no specific place – where they could be integrating . Say what they perceive with the next course of action. And so they seem to be able to coordinate their bodies both a little bit everywhere at once and also nowhere in particular. And one of the really exciting possibilities is that they might be using a Bioelectricity to do this, might be using impulses, action potential impulses to do this. And so it's really exciting to be talking to you about this in your recent findings and their potential applications. And you've done so much work in Unconventional Computing. I love this term and I love that you run the Unconventional Computing Lab. It feels like there's a lot of unconventional computing to be done. And it seems rather like a lot of computing is perhaps very conventional. And you've worked a lot with Physarum, with slime moulds as Bio Computing networks. And it's only more recently that you've turned your attention to fungi. And have been documenting the way that Oyster mushrooms respond to stimulations with flames or with sugar or salt, with spikes of electrical activity. So I wonder if you could tell us a little bit about your findings. Give us an introduction to to what you found and and where you're at with this research. Ok, basically I start with slime moulds, as you as you thought correctly, and slime moulds responds to various types of stimulation, to chemical stimulation, to mechanical, to optical stimulation. By trains of the spikes of the electrical potential. And by making several sensors with the slime mould, I saw that why not to try insert electrodes in the fungi and check how they respond. And what for example, is the genius activity of the mycelium. And therefore, to start with, I inserted one electrode in the stalk of the fruit body and another electrode in the cap and recorded for several days. And I saw that we can observe trains of spikes and average width of the spike is about 20 minutes and the distance between spikes is about 1 hour and up to 3 hours. And the distance between trains is maybe like between 6 hours and 18 hours. So essentially, I saw that the mycelium network behaves in a way similar to neural network. Because all parameters of the action potential can be found when we record the mycelium network. And we started to dig deeper and try to specify spiking activity. Types of spikes, distribution on the reach and the amplitudes and the number of spikes of the train. And then we stimulated mushrooms or mycelium blocks with light, with mechanical pressure. With chemicals like chloroform to make them sleep and with human hormone cortisol, to check how they respond to stress. And also in the framework of fungal variables, we attach patches of the hemp parts colonised by mushrooms. I will show you later. And then I apply some stretching and also elimination of chemicals and check the spike activity. And we found that indeed, in all kinds of experiments, mushrooms respond quite distinctively to different types of stimulation. That's what was done so far at the moment. And to what degree do you think the responses, the bio electric responses of the fungi are an active signaling process or an information transfer process? And how much do you think is just a by-product of this trauma that you are inflicting on the tissue? I have no idea, to be honest, but in theory, everything can be interpreted as information. Therefore, even if it's inflicted by trauma or damage to the cell wall, this action potential spikes propagate in the mycelium at work. And therefore other parts of the mycelium network can respond. But based on my experience, with slime moulds for the last 15 years. I believe slime moulds use electrical activity to coordinate the whole body of the protoplasm network. And also to shift protoplasm back and forth, to transport nutrients and maybe transport some signaling molecules. Some more likely the mycelium network uses electrical activity for the same purpose, for the purpose of coordination. Because what happens, we have, the mycelium is very large. You're the best person to confirm this based on your book. The largest mushroom is several hectares in Oregon. And somehow this largest mushroom coordinates its activity and behaves like a single organism. And more likely it can be done with electrical activity, because electrical impulses propagate faster than chemical signals. You very memorably wrote a paper called 'Towards Fungal Computer', suggesting that these bio electric impulses travelling through fungal networks could be used by humans as a kind of bio-computer, to achieve certain aims and certain goals. And I wonder if you could talk to us a little bit about the potential applications of a fungal computer. How might this find a use in human life at this particular moment in time on our damaged planet? Difficult to say, because I'm the person who usually stays quite far away from applications. But what I think, if instead, for example, 256 electrodes in the mycelium, for example, in the forest, we insert electrodes. We apply Boolean functions of the those 256, we record the outputs. So basically this mycelium network will implement mapping of the Boolean functions. The exact structure, the functional structure of the mapping will depend on the geometrical structure of the mycelium network and the configuration and distribution of repellents and attractants in this network. Therefore, from the form of this Boolean mapping, we can derive maybe, for example, the environmental state of the forest because the mycelium represents it. Or the distribution of objects in the forest or overall health of the mycelium network or maybe its intentions. Where it actually plans to grow and in what places plants are fortified? That's one of the applications. In terms of our projects FUNGAR, we are making, growing buildings from mushrooms basically . We use fungal blocks to make buildings and some part of the buildings will be dried fungal blocks and some parts will be alive. And this alive part will react to light, chemicals in the environment, maybe to touch of the inhabitants. Maybe to the hormones emitted by the inhabitants. And then using the fungal computers, they'll make decisions about how to proceed. Maybe switch the light on or emit some pheromones or maybe open a window. Basically just like an intelligent house. That's because if you talk about the speed of fungal computing, then bits of the spike is about 20 minutes. Therefore, basically fungal computing is very very slow. Because mushrooms have nowhere to rush. They're kind of immortal we can say, and when you're immortal, you can compute very slow. Therefore, they will never compete with classical silicon computers, but they can still be useful in terms of like, ecosystems, to do some computation, or in terms of fungal buildings where speed is not critical. I love this idea of plugging into mushrooms and eavesdropping on the activity of mycelial networks. They're so densely and intimately embedded in their surroundings, and they have to be paying attention in some way to what's going on around them. They are bathed in a rich field of sensory information. And it makes a lot of sense intuitively that we should be able to, in principle, detect this, provided that that sensory information is encoded in electrical spikes. But this will require some very careful experimentation to decode the natural bioelectric language of the fungus. And this will presumably vary from strain to strain and species to species and possibly from place to place. And I wondered if you'd embarked on this somewhat daunting program of research to try and decode these spikes of electrical activity. Yes, that's what we are trying to do at the moment. So far, we submitted one paper about the complexity of spiking activity. And we also compare the complexity of spiking activity with the complexity of European languages. And like the most complex European language, by compression measure, it will be the Estonian one. I don't know why. And actually fungal language is even more complex than the Estonian language. Therefore, it stays at the top of the hierarchy of complexity of the European languages. So maybe two versions, either mushrooms, I don't like the word intelligence, but I will use it. Either the mushrooms are really intelligent or there is just plenty of noise. Like oscillators distributed in the block which add to the overall complexity. But discovering the language of mushrooms will be actually my dream, because mushrooms form an important part of the ecosystem. They act like messengers between trees, insects, plants and all other parts of the forest, for example. And they understand the language of trees and understand the language of insects and then somehow manage to translate between between the species. Therefore, it's more likely that the language of mushrooms will be very, very complicated. But right now, it's difficult to say what it will be like for them. My suspicion is that most typically you can observe trains of about three or four spikes and then the strength can be combined in more complicated words. Therefore, I would say that probably minimum for them, will be three or four spikes train, which is about 20 minutes. And which according to about two phonemes of human language which is about 100 or 200 milliseconds. So one phoneme of fungi is about 20 minutes, which is equivalent to one phoneme of human language, which is 200 milliseconds. Therefore, a 10 minute speech equates to two days of fungal recording. This is wonderful. I wonder if you could give us a little demonstration of this since you're in the lab. Yes. So first I will show you the lab and then I can give you a PowerPoint presentation. So right now, I will try to put it here, now I'm doing experiments of anaesthetising mushrooms. I will just try to put it closer, like this one. So we have the hemp part, colonised by an oyster mushroom. We inserted electrodes. It's like eight pairs of differential electrodes. And in each pair, we measure the difference between two electrodes. I'll just put this on the screen. And then, as you can see on the screen, you can see now a little bit. That's the electrical activity recorded on each of the channels. If for example we play – I will show you another recording. Here. That recording encompasses a long experiment. And this part we just recorded endogenous activity of the hemp part colonised by oyster mushrooms. Then we put chloroform and then you can see visibly, the amplitude of spikes decreased and the overall kind of complexity of electrical activity, it's also decreased. So basically,the Mushroom was going into sleeping. Then we removed the chloroform – well the chloroform evaporated at some point like here. And then you see the spikes are restored, clearly visibly. And then we applied chloroform again and everything went down, so the mushrooms went to sleep. That's basically one of the experiments. As you know, what is consciousness? Last year at a conference of consciousness. I asked Hameroff and Rasmusson, guys, give me a formal definition of consciousness. After many, many arguments, they agreed that, if any substrate can be anesthetised and decreased electrical activity. When chloroform, for example is applied. The subject has consciousness. Therefore, what you saw right now is a demonstration that mushrooms have consciousness. And by recording the electrical activity, we actually try to uncover complexity and structure of their consciousness. And this mannequin we use for experiments with fungal variables. And that part it's already dry, the hemp part. And I will show you in the PowerPoint presentation. Electrodes attached here and only apply pressure to the shirt, just like this stuff. And it records electrical activity. These fungal variables, they respond to stretching. And also, for example, if you apply brewing sugar, then the frequency of electrical activity increases because the mushrooms like brewing sugar. If you apply ethanol you have very strong action potential, probably damage to the cell walls. And then kind of alarming spikes of activity because mushrooms are not happy with ethanol. That's what I have at the moment in the lab. And indeed we are growing plenty of fungal substrates everywhere for future experiments. This is marvelous. Could you show us your slides? Do you see fungal spiking right now? Yes OK, so I will try to present. That's basically a picture of the first experiment when I tried four years ago. I tried to record in the wild, the electrical activity of mushrooms. And that's we see, the set up of experiments already in the lab. And the electrodes were inserted in the caps and stems. On the right you can see a very typical, action potential of the mushrooms. So we have depolarisation, repolarisation and some quite long refractory fields. Here are examples of fungal spiking. And enlarged in the insert, you can see a train of spikes. It's three spikes is a train, and they also look action-potential like. And that's an example of the electrical activity recorded during quite a long period. And we have several types of the trains. In one train with a frequency of oscillation about once per two hours. On the left, this one and the on the right we have frequency about five hours, frequency distance between between spikes in the train. So this demonstrates how actually slow thinking mushrooms are. And that's the example of the fungal response to load. So by (W) with star, it indicates where we actually put about 500 grams on the hemp part colonised by oyster mushrooms. And you see, we have one less response, spike, followed by a train of smaller spikes of higher frequency. When we removed the load from the hemp part colonised by Oyster mushrooms, we again see quite a large spike and then a train of small spikes. The response to illumination is quite different. As you can see further, with (L) with star. We see the moment when the light was switched on, so the hemp part was eliminated. And then, potential raise and stayed so, at the raised level, until the light was switched off and this phenomenon is repeatable. So we switch light on again. Again potential raised and when the light is switched off, it goes down. So already you found that mushrooms can differentiate between mechanical stimulation and optical stimulation. With the mechanical stimulation, mushrooms respond with one large spike and a train of small spikes. And then activity goes normal and that when the stimulation is removed, we have nearly the same response. And to the light, mushrooms respond, as you can see in the picture below, with raising potential and keeping it up until the light is switched off. And the last example of experiments on the fungal variables. You can see a mannequin with fungal part attached, electrodes inserted. On the bottom to see how they are inserted. And it's all recorded through an amplifier to the laptop, basically. Here is the response to the application of Malt. By the star, it's showing the moment when malt extract was applied. The first part of the reaction, maybe like two or three hours, is basically a response to water because malt extract dissolves in water. But then you see high frequency spikes. And these high frequency spikes, is a response to chemoattractant because mushrooms like malt extract and probably they consumed it. And on this plot, you can see response by stretching. A response by stretching is manifested in a very kind of strong action potential. And now just a couple of illustrations of the model of the fungal computer. So we have basically a colony. That's a photograph of the real colony and we put on a matrix of electrodes, you can see on the right. Then we stimulate some of the electrodes and the waves of the stimulations, they run over the colony. And then we can also record responses on the area of electrodes inserted in this colony. And then to each combination of impulses, we can assign a logical function, as you can see on this plot. For example, 'and not', or 'and', or, 'or' function. And the last point. And then we can take recordings of all possible binary strings to the inputs. And extract a number of logical gates implemented by fungal computers. And what we found in the computer model is that the overall distribution of wall and gates is quite similar for mushrooms, slime mould and plants. So more likely, all living systems they have the same computational abilities. That's all about the future of mushrooms. Wonderful. Thank you so much. I wonder one of the questions that arose when I was looking at those figures and I was wondering. In human brains and then neurons, the activity of individual neurons, the action potentials to pass along individual neurons, combine with many, many other neurons to give rise to a sort of sum, a field, an electromagnetic field that moves across the brain in rhythmic frequencies and that electromagnetic field can act back on the activity of neurons. So the neurons' activity gives a rise to the EM field and the EM fields can also change the activity of the neurons. And I wondered whether you'd looked on any investigations as to whether these fungal mycelia can respond to changes in electromagnetic fields that surround them. That's a very good idea. We should we should actually do, and then we can produce a paper together. Indeed, already papers were published about charges of the tips of the growing mycelium. Therefore, each growing tip was actually already charged. And more likely, these tips generate action potential which propagates further. And by generating action potential around the mycelium, these tips might interact with each other. And indeed their individual electromagnetic fields they integrated into the larger field. And yes, I have no answer, but I think maybe even mushrooms can feel our own electromagnetic field or the field of other creatures and somehow interact. That could be a fantastic topic for future studies. I'm so intrigued as to the way that fungi can use bio electricity to coordinate their behavior. And of course, other organisms do, too. Obviously we do, animals do. Michael Levin, a wonderful researcher in the States, he says that brains didn't evolve their tricks from scratch and that this electrical excitability is a really fundamental property of cells and even bacterial colonies can communicate amongst themselves using waves of electrical activity. So one thought that comes to my mind is, that once you've decoded the way that this fungal electric language – then the next step would be to try and work out how the fungi are electrically communicating with the organisms they associate with. The plants that they associate with, for example, or the bacteria. And this would be a whole other field of research. But it feels like we're really at this exciting new beginning of research into bioelectricity. The bacterial work was done in 2015 or thereabouts. And this fungal work has been picked up recently by you. Althouygh Stefan Olsson did some key work on it in the 90s, but no one touched it for over 20 years. And so it feels like we're at this very exciting moment where people are beginning to consider bioelectricity anew, in a way that perhaps it hasn't been considered for the last few decades. So this is so exciting. And I want to maybe to roundoff. If you can tell us a little bit about how you imagine the future of bio-computing. You've worked for a long time with slime moulds and you've gotten to do all sorts of strange things. And I've seen these demonstrations and I find them very amusing as well as when as very interesting. But I'm always left wondering how is it that this would be something we could actually use? And the idea is not to compete with silicon chips because silicon chips are very fast and convenient. But I've wondered how you saw, in general, the field of biocomputing developing over the next 10, 15 years or so. And what your ambitions might be for the field as a whole? Well, right now with age, I think that the key goal will be to understand the language of mushrooms, language of plants and language of slime moulds, for example, as any other living creatures. Because if you manage to understand their language and communicate with them, then our world will become better. Because right now we don't know their language. We don't even know the language of dogs or cats properly. Not talking about slime mould or worms, for example. And therefore we are kind of standing alone in this world. But by understanding the language of mushrooms, we'll be able to merge with them and become part of a very holistic ecosystem. And live together, because I think in the future there will be no computers which are kind of separate from the human body. It will be not necessary at all. We can use our brain's computer, as a computer, and we can convey information by electromagnetic fields to other living creatures. So we can interact with each other and interact with other living creatures. So I think the future of that biocomputing is in the integration of all living creatures in one harmonic system. Wonderful. Well, thanks so much for your time Andy, it's been wonderful to chat and good luck with the ongoing studies and I'm very excited to see how they develop in the coming months. Thank you. Bye. Thinking about the future, it's like a computer board and we can see some parts of mycelium growing on the board and right now, just as the process of growth. But my idea is to attempt to integrate conventional hardware in a very straightforward way by just growing mycelium directly on the boards. And then insert these boards into a computer and check how they function. I know it sounds silly and non scientific, but I'm the type of guy, if I have some idea, I just want to try. I love that thought. There was a study that came out recently which found that fungi had been digesting CDs. They would be making pits in the surface of seeds. And I thought it would be quite fun to give a blank CD to the fungus and then to play back the CD that it had made by digesting it. A bit similar to your fungal circuit board. And basically that, the fungi are very smart. Do know about this predatory Oyster mushrooms. Which really kind of, lure worms nearby them, then paralyse the worms, and then eats them basically alive. The worms are paralysed. So if we uncover mushroom intelligence and mushroom consciousness, maybe it will be, kind of, our way to the future. Because mushrooms were the first species who are arrived in this Earth. And that's another kind of concept that maybe magic mushrooms intentionally try to show us future galaxies. When you eat magic mushrooms, you see strange things and maybe it's a vision of the future. Certainly feels like it. Yes at least it feels like it, exactly! 