 What's up everyone, today i am gonna share how you can get started in data science. whether you want to learn Data Science just to full fill your hobby of using cool AI applications, or if you are pursuing Data Science for your career, or you are into research and innovation trying to launch your next big idea or to carry out your own RND work then you have come to just the right place. Make sure that you stick with us to the end of the video, I have something for you. I am Suyash Dixit, over the past few years I have delivered more than 40 AI projects in different fields such as in finance, medical, Ecommerce or digital marketing in varying roles for different clients, organisations and institutions. I have also carried out several research, worked on patents, solved business problems and helped people launch start up. Now I am sharing my journey and expertise with every one. If you’re new here then make sure you subscribe to this channel to stay updated with all the amazing content that we are going to put out here. All the links related to the video are in description. Make sure you check it out once. Today internet is filled with all the hype and buzz around the AI, People who are not even aware of programming write about world dominating robots, self conscious mechanical systems and things like that? Our analysis reveals that every month around half a million people from US alone search for various keywords such as “artificial intelligence”, “A.I.”, “artificial intelligence is”, “artificial intelligence define” and what not., and this number is far greater when comparing to the worldwide data. However lets have a look at results served by google. Researchers shut down ai that invented its own language? AI robot that learns new word tells human creator it will keep them in zoo? Is it? Man I made a model that started to spit out garbage. These people should know that It's a failed model, and nothing more. My model said that the owner fried his cars. That sh*t doesnt even make any sense. Another article says the same thing, and we have this one, when her best friend died she used AI to keep talking to him. Damn this needs to stop, any sane data scientist knows that this is plain crap. I can also make a 3 min video of someone who is dead speaking on it but again its for consoling kids and not for some adult to keep engaging along. This is pure misrepresentation at its best, Screen shot read. They say AI can do so much, Where as my model cant even differentiate between a Dog or a Cat? Or is it, is it that early for AI in 2020? Certainly not! Now we have self driving cars, intelligent drones, complex tasks getting automated and with the onset of BCI we are more connected with computers then ever and now they can read our human minds. If you havent watched our conference on the same then please do watch it, Links are in description. But even after all this, AI is just a tool for problem solving, it is just a program capable of choosing the right option when offered with a definite fixed choice and nothing more. We have come a long way over Cat Dog but the pun here is That it is still not the same as it is portrayed by the news and media. They have completely ignored the true sense of AI and people are exactly not aware of what it is and how it really works. This false information smuggling has not increase the awareness or adoption of AI even one bit, but they are the reason for loss in adoption due to false expectation of people and then people underestimating there capabilities and considering it complex without even trying. This is completely wrong, AI is not machine consciouness but problem solving and no matter who youre, where are you from, what is your major, technical background or your age. Anyone can solve problems. I will surely do a video on What AI really is? So make sure you subscribe to this channel now to receive updates on the same. Now if you have passed this stage, and you have decided to take on the challenge of mastering nits and grits of AI then there comes an even bigger problem. The first roadbloack was just the tip of the iceberg. Once you start, you find that the world is full of information abundance, it seems like maybe there are more content producers then content consumers. And a person gets lost in the ocean of information. Internet is filled with lots of vanity courses, that is they fill you with false hopes. They will show you dreams of flying cars and talking robots in the introduction, show you big job numbers, big climbing graphs, market share and things like that, then by the end of the course you would have only run the code provided to you by the instructors and that will also do nothing but solve some cat dog problems. Moreover these projects doesnt reflect real world challenges at all. There are countless drawback amongst these courses such as: Domain Knowledge missing. Background of the approach is missing. They dont egive you real world problem solving capabilitie4s. [For example I once worked for a start up where I had to deliver them a Disease diagnosing model. From courses I would have got a plug and play model, with bunch of input and output sequence. They did not teach how to prepare dataset because for majority of real world problems dataset doesnt exist. The approach they taught was not usable as the out of the box solution since in course they just taught training and testing the model where as the problem statement required more emphasis on delivering a detailed insight to the customers of derma based startup.] Is this the way you are shooting to stars? Or do you think? Your boss at your next data science job will be saying, hey I have a husky and a german shepherd, I am not able to differentiate between them, can you please provide me with a jupyter notebook where i can simply click on run and it will tell me what breed did i provide. No this is not how you are going to succeed in Data Science. Period. This abundance of information and the hype build by media around it, most of the people dont even try getting into data Science, even if they start then they are lost forever, most of the people dont reach anywhere close to perfection due to mis information and information overload. Thats the reason despite of having huge job requirements in AI, you can find an AI enthusiast in every home who is still looking for a job. Fascinate yourself. Countless motivational videos emphasize that you should be passionate, goal oriented, devoted and consistent, So I wont be giving a lecture about all that. All i say is that to keep the momentum going, you need to have a driving factor, a constant source of inspiration, a purpose to keep your interest alive and a path full of small milestones with rewards. My understanding of neuroscience says, our brain is hard wired to a reward system, so all these things will happen naturally if youre fascinated and inspired enough by something that is well within your reach. Get inspired with every day AI techs, try to find something that really fascinates you, do your research, try replicating it or even a small part of it. In doing so, you will have the feeling of accomplishment. This cycle naturally turns into passion, goal oriented behaviour and makes you consistent. So the first step is to fascinate yourself with the innovative products of AI that seems unbelievable to you. For instance I took brain computer interfaces for the same, I was inspired by the ability of computers to make sense of human minds. Now Neuroscience and AI is my deep rooted passion. You can follow us on instagram, because there, we bring you a daily dose of fascinating and inspiring project from all around the world which we later also try to cover on youtube with full tutorial so subscribe us here too. 2.) Identify yourself. Once youre fascinated enough to stay motivated over your pursuit in Data Science, then next step is to identify yourself. You should know a little more about your personal traits like whether you learn good from courses or books, whether you are good at self learning or mentored learning. Whether you enjoy or fear programming, whether you are good at maths or not.These are some basic introspection that you should do. [Your background (law) Books or course. Guided or unguided Practical or self] 3) Identify your goal. Your learning path is highly depended on your expectation from data science, whether youre looking towards data science as a profession, or you are some seasoned enthusiast from other background such as Law, digital marketing, medical, finance etc. looking to upgrade yourself to have an extra advantage or be any business or individual who is looking to leverage on AI to cut down cost or improve to efficiency. Or anyone, from any background, age and domain looking towards data science for some research and innovation. So you need to identify your expectations [Hobby, QC check, digital marketing. Dummy, job and retaining job Expert, innovation and research] Identify your domain knowledge, from predicting cosmological events to mapping human mind From Healthcare to finance, digital marketing, automobile, law and so on. From signals, images, linguistics, numbers and so on. From generating arts, music, images, write ups. AI have a role to play everywhere. So identify what are the other things about which you possess deep knowledge. For example, for me it was Biology, so i initially applied AI more for developing healthcare tools but eventually i got better across several domains. Arranging Resources: Next you need to arrange your keys, tto data sci nd get your shovels ready for gold mining. You need to take a decision, whether you would like to have a deep learning powerhouse next to you or you want to pay as you go? There are several factors that can affect this decision, for example when you want to do extensive research, train larger models, want to work on problems with huge amounts of data or when internet is an issue and you cannot arange a couple of gbs of internet daily then you might consider having a deep learning workstation around your corner. Apart from deep learning it can do a couple more task such crypto mining, gaming, audio or video processing, 3d modelling and game design however it will cost you anywhere between $1000-$2500 that is from 75000 to 2lac in indian Rupees. But I believe that beast can cover its own cost in an year or two, if planned strategically. I will Do a DIY video on how to build one such deep learning rig and also share a couple of ways which can help you cover the cost on autopilot with the rig, so make sure you subscribe to this channel to learn more. However if you cant afford so much hassle and pain then there are much simpler option, you can always pay as you go. Majority of your data science can be done absolutely for free, google provide these jupyter notebook, which generally have a 12gb of ram and 14gb of vram with either a tesla t4 or k80 gpu. This is really enough for small projects and some experiments. Infact an experienced person might even be able to train larger models ranging in 50-100gbs of data but that requires some skill. I have also trained model with 70-80 gb of data on colab and will share some projects in upcoming videos. But even after all this, it is just for experimentation or hobby programming, in real world training the model is generally the small part, deploying the model and developing an architecture around it is the prima focus. And for that purpose you may have to resort to cloud pay as you go services to rent the hardware when you need it since colab cannot do everything. You only pay for the resources you use so it is quite cheap like under $100-150 or 8000-10000 rs. You can do a lot of things. But even with this added advantage it cannot outweigh the benefits of having your own hardware around because the money you spend here is never coming back. And over the period of an year or so, you accumulate almost same amount of money with an exception that you dont own the asset and you cannot do anything other then data science. I learnt this the hardway, although i had a deep learning hardware around but due to hassle of maintenence, my laziness and easy access to the cloud option, which was a portable solution since i could train models from anywhere I ended up paying more than my hardware over the period of last 2 years and now i wonder if I would have used my hardware, I would have done a lot of things other than data science. Like the way this video was made. I just regret using the easier option. So in breif you should have hardware On premises. if you want to do extensive training, are into research, innovation, startups Or when you dont have suficient internet and you want to work on data with order of magnitude 20gb and above. On the cloud. When internet is not an issue or you dont want to spend in bulk on resources or you want to work only on small models for hobby or experimentation. Mind it, having your hardware gives you complete freedom. PLAN ahead. Now based on who you are and where you want to reach, available resources you have. Lay down a strategy which does the work of aligning your skillset with your expectation. For example if you want to pursue data science as a profession and you dont have programming skills then it wont work that way. You might start considering learning some programming beforehand, however if you want to do some research or innovation then you might want to learn about every small detail and strengthening your fundamentals. If you are here just to experiments and utilising AI to support you in your everyday life then following us on instagram is enough. We also assist business and individuals looking for automation and process cost cutting, you can contact us on the email below in description for various solutions. Last thing I want to say is, no matter who you are, we need 3 things to succeed in Data Science, irrespective of your expectation. Number 1) Projects, Number 2) Projects and Number 3) Projects. Doing a lots of real world projects is the antidote to success here. But keep in mind, real world project doesnt mean the basic ones which you see on all resumes such as housing price, credit fraud, iris, titanic and etc. One most important advice I want to give is, the papers, the certificates, the written metrics doesnt define you. All that defines you is the work you have done, one thing i want to say is, number of courses in your resume will not catch the recruiters eye or make any difference. Literally any one can just play the courses, sleep and wake up next day with a certificate. Nor the content of those courses is anywhere close to things that happen in real world where you solve completely different problems in a different way. And most importantly data science is not just training the model and testing it. In real world this is just a brick in home, majority of work happens before and after the model. Training is always a plug and play task. So i suggest that simply do lots and lots and lots of project. There is no other alternative to that. ----Now time for Something Special---- You should definitely fill the form in description to know why watch the remaining portion of the video. Learning path highly depends on your objective, if you just want to make your lives easier by using AI applications then you just need to know the basics and capabilities of current day Data Science. we will be maintaining a playlist for you by the name AIForHobby. In that we will be sharing cool AI applications, information, tools, tips and content that can make your everyday personal or work experience far better. If you’re just looking at Data Science from job’s perspective, then you need to focus more on Competitive programming,, Data Science theory and creatively using several libraries. A few courses will also be enough. You should just be aware of what is the background of the algorithms and how to use them from an existing library. If you fall under this category then we will be maintaining another playlist with content that will enable you to do a lots of project with the help of our library and we will also give a background behind all the concepts. Competitive programming is also crucial, because at work you wont be taking any decisions, all you will be given is a set of input and output. Competitive programming will help you in delivering solutions which generally pass all code reviews and are optimized for speed because in this field every nanosecond matters. So in this playlist AIfordummies, we will be cover all your needs that can help you in landing a job. All you need to do is complete a bunch of courses vaguely, do some amazing end to end projects on weekends and practise competetive programming on weekdays. If youre looking at Data Science from innovation perspective, or if you want to be on any leading or decision making role and not just an entry level fresher or junior then you not only need to know theory behind the data science and programming but also the practical and mathematical reasoning behind it, hence you need to focus less on competitive programming and more on research and scientific study perspective. Being able to solve 20-30 line long logical programming question in 30 mins wont give you any advantage here, most of the code will go well beyond 1500 lines and involves deep thinking, actual problem solving, creativity, innovation and subject expertise.. It require ability to understand the problem, having a deep domain knowledge, coming up with solutions for problems that are unsolved so far. And also ability to choose from right model, selecting right approach and adopting right practises, design pattern and solutioning a complete architect is required. Competitive programs are the problems already solved by thousands of people but time cannot bound you if you have to create a solution for something which have no answers yet. Anyways if you do a lots and lots of project end to end that is from training the model, to setting up UI, databases and deploying on cloud then you yourself will find competitive programming really easy. For a fresher or entry level job, you need not to take any decision on what model that you should use, that decision is taken by your seniors. You just need to know how to apply the models, but in a decision making role you need to have answers to that out of 5 classification model which are doing the same task, why you selected a particular one. Why you used a particular activation function, parameters? And apart from this You also need to adapt yourself in solving problems that you cant solve with what you know so far! Capability of handling things that are completely new to you. This requires a deep understanding and more creative approach. So for people who want to leverage data science for working in research, innovation or willing to start up then I will be maintaining a playlist AIforexpert where I will cover all these aspects. So no matter what your expectations are, make sure you subscribe to this channel because we have you all covered. Every video that we will be uploading will have a tag AIForHobby, AIForDummies or AIForExpert. So watch only what suits you. Thankyou for sticking with us till the end of the video, So if you have watched the video so far then you know there are many challenges in AI. But the first thing is identifying and balancing yourself with your goals, You will find a google form in description. Where there will be a bunch of question about you, your interest, your skills, once 10,000 people fills up that survey, then we will be emailing you the exact data Science path, career choices that you should choose and an intelligent analysis on you. And based on your needs from the survey, we will be making tailor made content specially designed for you on this channel. SO make sure you subscribe to us, 