 (intense tone) - What's up everybody? Ben Rudolph from Microsoft. I'm here with Jeff Gasior from Asus. Jeff, there's a ton of awesome stuff that you guys are announcing at CES 2018. I want to start with Windows Mixed Reality and what you guys are doing with your headset. So tell me a little bit about the Asus headset. - Yes, so this is the HC102. What we really tried to do with this is tackle some of the pain points that are associated with VR. One is that you look a little bit silly with it on. So we tried to make the front of the visor a little bit of an interesting design. It's got a nice polygon pattern on there. Another thing we did was focus on comfort and weight. So it's only 400 grams, which means you can wear it for a long time. It's not as fatiguing. We also spent a lot of time on the materials on the actual headband. Because when you're wearing a display like this and especially a little bit more active, you sweat a little bit, and you don't want it with a material that gets kind of gross. So we use anti-bacterial foam on the inside, so it's actually quite comfortable to wear for extended periods of time. We've also got a little flip-up visor mode so you can actually keep the headset on but actually flip the display up. If you wanna just get reoriented in your space or mess around with something on the PC. - Let's grab Janet for a second. So Janet I'm gonna pull up your visor up here just a little bit. So that'll flip straight up. We'll pull that off. Thank you. - Sure. - So I love what you did with the front here, 'cause I think that's a really common, I don't want to say pain point, but it's certainly something if you're new to the mixed reality space, you look at one of these things and you go, Oo, I don't know if I wanna put that thing on, 'cause a lot of them are glossy plastic. I like what you've done here 'cause the texture, one, it's unique, two, it adds a little bit of depth. It kind of slims the profile a little bit. I don't know if you can pick that up as you're watching this on video. But it softens the profile a little bit even though you've got these kind of bumpier edges. So it makes it look really nice. The fit and finish on this thing is fantastic. This is my first time playing with your headset. And the first thing I noticed was this neoprene in the foam. So, it doesn't feel chintzy. It feels really nice, nice sturdy foam. And I love that you've got the antibacterial, or antimicrobial coating on there. 'Cause if you're moving around, you're playing a game, like super hot, or as in the sunshine, you know you're jumping around a bunch, you can get a little sweaty. - Oh yeah. - From playing mixed reality. So having something that can kind of help self-clean, really really nice. - The nice thing about it as well is it kind of sits on your head, and some of the VR headsets basically strap to your face like goggles. So you have that kind of VR face, where the display is pressed up against. But because this has the visor setup, and it sort of mounts on the crown of your head, it doesn't press into your face as much. And it's just more comfortable. - Yeah, I mean it feels really nice. I was playing with it before we got on camera. And you put it on and you're right. It does really, it feels more, I would say less like goggles, and more like a hat. You kind of put it on top of your head, as opposed to like suction cupping it to your face. - Exactly. - I love this flip-up visor for a couple of reasons. One, as you said, if you need to jump out, 'cause you need to do something else, somebody grabs your attention, you can flip it up. You don't have to dismantle it. I've also found that, you know it doesn't happen to a lot of people, but some people, when they're first trying out mixed reality, they start to feel a little uncomfortable. If you need to help somebody kind of bail out quickly. Just being able to click that thing up and pull them back into the real world, is a really powerful way to give people kind of a taste, but let them know they're still anchored in the real world. - Exactly. - Which I love. So, this is great. I mean this is another example of why I love the Windows world, and why I love the Windows ecosystem. It's not just about the breadth of PC's. It's about the breadth of experiences. Window's Mixed Reality is a relatively new platform, and I love that partners, you have a long history of Microsoft with Windows, like Asus are building these very headsets. I think it speaks to the value of the platform and it shows that just like there's a PC for you, no matter who you are, no matter what you're into, no matter how much you want to spend, there's gonna be a mixed reality headset for you as well. - Exactly. - Awesome. So let's put this guy down. And we're gonna head across the floor, because you have some new laptops as well, right? - Yes. Some new thin and light laptops. - Let's go take a look. So huge range here, which I really think speaks to the breadth and the depth of the Asus system. I mean you really have everything from value-priced PC's, all the way up to the super high-end which is where I naturally gravitate, and I want to talk about today. So, what are we looking at? - So this is actually a little bit in the middle. So this is the ZenBook 13, also known as the UX331. It comes in a couple of different flavors. The one on the right over here is available with a discreet graphics chip, so if you wanna do some light gaming, it's better than a typical integrated graphics solution. And we didn't go super thin on this, we went sort of thin enough to be very very portable, but also you can fit full-sized ports in there. So you've got you know, your normal USB. You've got your HDMI on the other side, and it's also available with up to a 4K display as well. So nice compact little system. - So you made me laugh, because I think your definition of not that thin, and most other people's definition of not that thin, are radically different. I think about what PC's looked like, two, three, five years ago. And the fact that we're now at a spot where we're looking at something that's this thin, which is what, maybe a centimeter on the bottom part of the chassis, maybe half a centimeter on the top, that we're like, oh it's not that thin, it's not that light. And this is what, maybe a bit over two pounds? Less than probably a centimeter and a half when I close it up? And I love the fact that, I love this color. Color is beautiful. I've been talking about this all week, something that I've noticed, and I'm starting to see more and more, are on these ultra-thin, ultra-light PC's, full-size HDMI ports. Which, for somebody like me who spends a lot of time in meetings, I'm presenting. Being able to just plug that straight into a conference room TV or into a monitor, is a huge, huge advantage. No dongles required. - Exactly. You don't want to be at home, when you, or forget your dongle when you go out, and realize that you're like, oh I need an adapter for type C. I mean I love ultra-thin, type C reversible ports, but you know, you need more stuff to be able to work with it. And that's just not available yet so, this is a nice kind of middle ground where you get sort of the best of both worlds. - And I think that's really smart, finger print center? - Yup. - For Windows Hello, awesome. No password required, just tap your finger. I think this is a really smart, intentional design. I mean I think we all look forward to a future where everything plugs into the same port, and everything just works. And we're certainly gradually moving down that path, but as you said, there's a lot of legacy devices out there, and a lot of new devices that don't connect to that. So having that flexibility to not just have a thin and light beautiful machine, but have those nice little touches that make it super productive, absolutely awesome. What else are we taking a look at? - So this one over here, is very very closely related. This is UX331, UAL. And this is basically a super-light version of this one. So what we did was we took out the discreet graphics. - The display is a-- - Aw, so light. Tiny, full HD, but it's under a kilogram. - Yeah, I mean it, this is one of those PC's again, there's my full-sized port, which is perfect. That was the first thing, if you noticed, I went to go check. But I love these, these PC's are so light, they don't feel real. Like they don't feel like they should have the capability and the power that's inside. I love the display, it's always just done a great job with their keyboards, like there's a really nice key travel on it, and the fact that I can get something like this in a package that's, you know, two pounds, throw the charger in my bag, it can run all day, this is. - Well, that's the thing, you don't even need the charger. This is 15 hours of battery. - Perfect, then I'll leave the charger at home. - There ya go. - Even further, like, this is like a perfect machine for the day trip. Perfect machine for running around the office. Just slide it into a light messenger bag, you're good to go. Absolutely awesome. So speaking of battery life, - Yes. - You know, 15 hours might be adequate for some people. But we might need, say, 50% more than that. And you guys have a new machine that delivers that, right? - Yes, this is the NovaGo. It's a Windows on ARM laptop. So basically what we did is put the Snapdragon 835 into a convertible laptop platform. And the idea behind this was we wanted to give everybody sort of a full laptop experience, and take advantage of the fact that this chassis allows us to pack in loads of battery. So you get that sort of, always on, connecting experience that you get with Windows on ARM, and pairing with that, the ability to go all day, and sort of all night as well, with up to 22 hours of battery life. - Yeah I mean, these I mean, the idea of an always-connected PC, is incredibly compelling to someone like me. I mean I flew 92,000 miles last year. I was on the road constantly. 22 hours of battery is New York to Sydney on a single charge, get work done, watch movies, mess around the entire time, land. And I still have six hours of battery life left. I can actually go to a day's worth of meetings, and not even have to pull the charger out of my bag. The idea of being somewhere and you know, I'm staying, I'm out on the road, staying in a hotel, the hotel wifi is not that great. I can just connect via cellular, through fast 4G LTE, and it just works. Couple that with all the things that I love, that I rely on Windows for, the familiarity, the compatibility, the productivity, the modern experiences like Windows Hello, I mean, this is an incredibly compelling device, especially for someone like me. You said, ink support as well right? - As Windows ink support, it sports our Asus pen, which is an active stylus, - Great. - And, yeah it's fantastic for that, and since you mentioned LTE, it's actually the first gigabit LTE convertible device as well. So you can get LTE without really sacrificing any of the speed that you get over wifi, or even over a gigabit network. - This is the kind of device that's perfect for somebody like me. I take all my notes in one note. I use my pen all the time. Flip this thing around, take notes in a meeting, when I'm ready to go back and do some email, I flip it back into laptop mode. Never have to worry about a hotspot. I can leave my charger at home, I'm good to go. - Yeah, one device to rule them all. - Super, super impressive. This has been great, Jeff. I really appreciate it. Thanks for having us. - Thanks for coming. - Great stuff from our partners at Asus. Stick around, we got a lot more. 