 (energetic music) - Hello and welcome to Microsoft Mechanics Live. Coming up we're gonna take a demo rich tour of the merger of AI, machine learning, IOT and realtime analytics with Azure Databricks and Mixed Reality through the HoloLens. We're gonna walk you through a real world application and then deconstruct how we can leverage the technology in your environment. To do that I'm joined by one of our all time favorites on Microsoft Mechanics, Mr. Or M R Ben Walters. (audience cheering) - Thank you, Jeremy, great to be back. - So over the past year we're seeing that there's a lot more going on in the area of IOT and machine learning, and Microsoft itself has a comprehensive IOT platform spanning device connectivity, management, security, analytics. We did a show actually with Jeff Volin not too long ago where we turned all these capabilities and to add to that now we can merge those capabilities to build MR, Mixed Reality solutions on top of them. - Yeah and this is a really interesting use case, especially if you look at taking all that data we have in the IOT devices out there in the field, reasoning over that with cognitive services, and building machine learning models and then being able to simulate the real world in a virtual world with Mixed Reality. So let's jump straight on in and I'll show you exactly how this comes together. So what I have here is the opening webpage for a system from a company called eSmart Systems. And eSmart have actually partnered with Microsoft to create this application. And they're responsible for managing the power grids across Europe. They're really worried about maintaining an up time at their power grid and also ensuring that they keep people safe as well. This is our field technician view, and what this allows me to do is to be able to get a high level view of my power grids. I can see where there are problems and what's happening and as I drill down I get more and more information. Now eSmart Systems have deployed IOT sensors across their power grid from substations to transformers and also on those pylons as well. And what this does is give them a view in real time of what's happening in that power grid, and so you can see, I can see things like grid load I can see the temperature of my pylons. I can also see line voltage down here in the bottom left corner, across the day and what's happening there. And because we have machine learning and analytics I can also start to predict where my line voltage is going to go and you can see here we're actually on this blue line about to spike over our maximum which is really bad, could take down these higher grid. - [Jeremy] It's not good probably that we're seein' a lot of red here on this visual in terms of all the things that are about to break, effectively. - [Ben] That's right, and it's one of those things that we can go and provide things like prescriptive analytics and the ability for people to be able to do things so I could for example click on these pylons and get a recommendation to reroute my power, which buys me a little bit of time, but honestly this grid's still at risk and so we really need to figure out how we're gonna go and address that. - [Jeremy] And we're seein' here we've got this voltage spike in the lower left corner with live voltage, so yeah they gotta get out there. The other thing is to be able to go out there you've gotta send technicians, right? - Yeah, and previously we'd send engineers out, they'd have to assess a power line, figure out what the problem was. But now what we're doing is we're actually sending out drones to be able to assess those power lines and take a look at those as well. And so what we have here is eSmart System created this connect a drone platform. These drones are equipped with a combination of infrared and LIDAR scanners and then they partnered those with high definition cameras as well to be able to run cognitive services over the images they've taken of the power lines. Now these images are passed through deep learning models that are running locally on those drones. As they start to find issues or they identify issues in those pictures they can then use the LIDAR scanners and high def cameras to be able to take a full 3D representation of the problem component and then be able to address that offsite before they send someone out there. - [Jeremy] And now as an engineer and in these cases such as, you're in Norway here so it's not always as green and as warm as it looks there, so it might make it tough to send people out and it's not always easy to kind of find the issues anyway. Now you can use actually Mixed Reality in this case with HoloLens to troubleshoot what's going on. So, Ben, why don't you step into the future and apply the HoloLens. - Put these on. - And then we're gonna track you to see what you can see here with your app, as you attempt to troubleshoot and fix the power grid. - Perfect, alright let's do it. - Let's do it. - Okay so I'm gonna get you to grab this phone over here, Jeremy, so you can project to everyone else what I'm doing. - Okay. - Alright we'll see how it goes. So now in front of me what you can see is my virtual command console. Across the top here I had those same feeds that I had on my dashboard before, of the IOT sensors bringing me things like load, I can see the issues that are coming up. I can also see info coming in from those drones that are out there assessing the power lines. So I've gone into that power line. You can see all the images that have come across from my drone here, with the bounding boxes that are showing you exactly where my problem is, so as I said there a problem with one of my insulators, so I'm gonna bring up that insulator. And you'll notice now here is that 3D representation that I was playing with earlier that you couldn't see, and you can see with this I can now zoom this in I can rotate that, this is a full 3D model of that insulator that I was using before. Now what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna come back in and I'm gonna select an alternative insulator to use on my power line. So now that I'm happy with the glass and ceramic insulator, I'm gonna apply that to my power line, and as I do that you'll see what we get now is machine learning models that have been run against that insulator, and other materials that we have, and this gives me a view as to what is the best material to use on this power line. Now you'll notice we actually have an option in there that has a zero percent failure rate but it adds a whole bunch of load to the power system overall and potentially still puts my grid at risk, but we'll notice the one that I selected has 15% failure rate but only adds an additional 20%, so that seems like the one that I'm gonna use today. So I'm gonna go ahead and create my ticket. Swap out for my new insulator model. And then just like that I'm gonna go and submit my ticket to Dynamics 365, so that my field service agent can then use this to go and make that repair. - Alright, very cool stuff, what do you guys think? (Audience cheering) Put that right back there. So now back to the here and now, so we saw a great example then of how we can really get real time data from the grid, and bring those into you know, from the IOT devices, bring those back to machine learning, really deep learning from the edge for predictive analysis. - Yeah and there are a number of technologies really working together to make this possible. What we've set out to do here is to give you an entire platform with Azure with IOT and also Databricks and machine learning, and bring all of those devices at the edge together to communicate and feed data back to a platform. It also enables you to manage the health of those devices and then apply predictive and intelligence to that. Apply intelligence predictive insights to that using machine learning and cognitive services which can then also trigger workflows as you so often see in things like Dynamic 365. So what we have for this solution is a number of IOT devices from our drones to our pylons and our substations. Then in capturing detailed images, running cognitive services over those images, and pushing that up into our Cosmos DB. We then have that data fed through into Databricks, which uses that information to be able to build our machine learning models, and then we can use that to test changes before we apply them in the real world. Of course all of that information can then be used to render our 3D environment so that when I'm working with those different objects I can do that in a virtual world before I go and submit that field ticket off to Dynamics 365 field service. - Very cool, very cool, so of course in the future you'd be able to augment this solution at the silicon level effectively using Azure Sphere. And can you break this down though and actually show us what the out code itself looks like and what you had to do to build this stuff up? - Yeah so what I have here is my Azure Databrick notebook. And you can see as we go through here we've actually got a number of things that we're doing. As we scroll down I've got my code in here where I'm loading my images from storage, we run them through some pre processing, we then use MMLSpark to be able to run across those images and build that machine learning model. And then as I scroll down here you can see here is a sample image that actually comes out of that MMLSpark model. So we use all of our images, and then as we come through we can start to see where we detect anomalies, and really break down those components of that image to detect where there are issues. And then once we have that machine learning model set up we can then containerize that and push that out to our drones. - Great Ben, so you've really made this real for us but where can people learn more if they wanna actually get their hands on all this and start trying it for themselves? - So if you want an overview of AI machine learning to get started, you can check out the Azure essentials series on Mechanics. Then we also have a number of other areas you can check out aka.ms dot MixedReality, slash MixedReality, slash GoDatabricks, and also the Microsoft.com learn website has all of these resources to get started. - And of course keep checking back to Microsoft Mechanics for the latest tech updates in reality and in Mixed Reality. Thanks for watching we'll see ya next time and goodbye for now. (audience clapping) (energetic music) 