 Get me out of here. Oh my god. No I can't do it. I'm up here with the birds. No. Do you use computers and technology regularly? How do you use it in your daily life? I think I'm very basic with technology and I noticed that little kids, you know,  they just have no fear they just keep on touching things until things work. Ten years old he just whips it up. And I've got one of these "fancy phones." Yeah I use my cell phone all the time and it always does what it thinks I want, which is never what I want. Here's a VR Headset This is an HTC Vive Tell us what you think about it. I would think, it was like for those, as from my era, slides, where you put the slides in and you project on the wall. Actually this is the first time I've ever seen one of these. You know I lived through World War Two  and we had gas masks. For lack of a better term I'll say scary. It certainly looks very modern and techy. Jesus Christ. This. I don't even know what to say. This is amazing holy crap It reminds me of man's future in space. Always wanted to do anything I wanted in a store. Do you think I'll get fired? (elevator music) No. There's a fire extinguisher. Where is the fire extinguisher? Okay. Can I put my face on it? Oh my goodness gracious. That's my brain. Will you want a little chemical with your bacon? (elevator music) A pocket donut from three days ago. (barfing sound) Here free lottery tickets everybody. Whoa. (elevator music) Oh oh phenomena Oh my god. Oh. You really want me to walk out there? I'm suppose to walk out on this. It's like nice to see the world from this view, but I don't think I could go out on that plank. I'm heavily insured. Okay. Whoa. I would like it better if there was a pool over there and I could jump off of it. (elevator music) Shit. Let's take the headset off. Welcome back. Welcome back to reality. I preferred unreality I think. I see why all these young people waste their lives  playing these video games... or whatever they are. It redefines reality because it does feel real. Virtual reality is unreality. It's virtually unreality is what it is. You can experience total freedom. Virtually turn a car around by just a touch made me feel like Superman. It's almost like imagination it has a sort of it set a parcel sort of dreamlike quality. You know it's very seductive. You can get hooked on this. And I could see it could be a terrific escape I mean for people like in hospital beds for a long time. I've had some of that. It drives you nuts you know. Young people will like, of course they're gonna love this, but people who are stuck in beds. And just to be able to do this would probably make them get better. It would be tremendously therapeutic for some people. It's very interesting how your eyes are telling your brain something that your brain really already knows. Virtual reality to me, now that I've experienced it is, in itself, an adventure. So this is what virtual reality is and I think it's amazing. I hadn't realized that it progressed of this state and this sort of thing could be done. I think it's incredible. 