 Welcome to Teams On Air brought to you by Microsoft. Thanks for joining us on-demand, our episodes are also streamed live every other Thursday at 9:00 a.m. Pacific Standard Time. During the live show, we give you the opportunity to participate in our Q&A. So, if you ever have any questions about our upcoming topics, be sure to join live, and our subject matter experts will be responding in the background. You can also listen to us on the go through podcast, iTunes, Google Play, and everywhere podcast can be found. If there are any specific topics you'd like us to cover, leave us a comment on our latest YouTube video and remember to subscribe to our playlist to get the latest updates. If you ever like our episode, make sure you give us a big thumbs up. All right let's get to the show. Welcome back to another episode of Teams On Air. Today, we're going to close out our first season of Teams On Air with a special episode on Remote Assist and Microsoft Teams. In order to help me do that I brought a special guest, Sandhya Rao. Sandhya thanks for joining us today.  Thank you for having me, I am really excited.  Yeah, this technology I thought is super interesting for us to bring on the show and talk about, because not only do we talk about Microsoft Team, but it also allows us to highlight some of the fantastic work that we're doing across Microsoft. So, talk to me about what you do here at Microsoft and how HoloLens and Teams are working together.  Yeah, sure. So, I'm in Teams, I'm a Product Manager and I work on bringing Mixed Reality experiences to Teams, and so our first implementation of that is Microsoft Remote Assist. It is a HoloLens app, and when somebody uses Microsoft Remote Assist, they are making a phone call to somebody who's on a Windows 10 Teams desktop.  Nice, and so this is a really cool and unique scenario, and a phone call could be just an audio and it can be videos. Is that correct?  Correct. Yes.  So, talk to me about some of the scenarios that you would typically see a HoloLens and a Teams call coming together.  Yes sure. So, Microsoft Remote Assist and Teams, this integration is really focused on first line workers. So, I'm not sure maybe you know what a first line worker is?  Well, I do, but maybe the rest of us don't know. So, share with us what is a first line worker.  So, first line worker are service technicians, factory floor workers, folks that are in the field and they're doing a lot of servicing, and technical work and sometimes the problems they're trying to solve are quite complex. So, they've got a lot of knowledge at their fingertips, but sometimes they need a little bit more help that they don't have with themselves.  So, they could use a HoloLens in order to help solve that problem?  Yeah. So, right now or prior to this integration, what was happening is that a lot of times these first line workers when they needed help, they would maybe email somebody, maybe they would call somebody, they have to go back and forth really trying to explain what the machine looks like and how it works and what's going on and sometimes actually that expert who's on the call or answering the e-mails has to actually come on-site to fix something. So, that can be very time consuming as well as costly because if you're talking about bringing somebody from maybe a different time zone or a different country to on-site, they have to buy a plane ticket, figure out when they can get there and all of that.  Yeah and so how is the Remote Assist and Teams integration helping to solve that problem?  Yeah, so with Remote Assist basically a first line worker can put on a HoloLens and in a handsfree heads up environment, they can make a video call, they can insert images into the call and they can also do Mixed Reality annotations with the remote expert who's on their Teams desktop.  They can do this all in real-time.  All in real-time.  Well, that's great, and I know a video is worth a million words. So, how about we jump into the demo so that our audience can check it out?  Sounds like a great idea. So, you can see Kate, my friend, is calling me, so let's answer her call.  Hi Kate. How's it going?  Good, how are you?  Great. So as you can see Kate is on a HoloLens. As she moves around, we see everything that she sees. Also you can see the call window, my call window moves with her so, I can follow her around wherever she goes and help her out with whatever she needs.  Nice.  So what's going on Kate?  Well, I'm trying to recruit some voice over for a video, and I have this new sound board right here. But for some reason, the microphone is not working. I was hoping you could help.  Yeah, I can definitely help with that. So, first and foremost, why don't we put my call window to the side so that we can really focus on the sound board. So, why don't she go and pin it to the side there. Great.  So, she can actually move your video stream out of the way so that she can more focus on the core task at hand.  Exactly.  All right, cool.  Okay, great. So now, when you look at the sound board here. Okay, so what you can see here is that it's a pretty complex device. Kate might need some help in terms of remembering which are the most important elements here to triage. So Kate, first I want to make sure that these inputs into the stereo are properly connected. Then I want you to make sure that this is set to 30, and then let's also go ahead and check to make sure that the connection over here to the mike is solid.  Nice. So, you are actually able to annotate on top of the image and point to places that you think are more important. Wow, that's really cool so when you start editing she can see all your annotations.  She can even see the annotations as I'm drawing them. What we've inserted here is a Mixed Reality toolbar and you can basically do annotations, you can place arrows, you can do inking, you can also actually pull up files from your OneDrive and insert it into the user space.  Nice. So, if you had a diagram of this board you can actually use the diagram to augment your conversation with her?  Exactly.  Awesome.  So, let's see how Kate is doing. Go ahead and check those things for me.  Okay. So, this looks pretty good. This game is at 30, does that sound good?  Great.  Now, I'll try this, let me see.  Oh yeah, that was a little loose so let me test it now, it's working.  Terrific.  Thanks.  Great. Well I'm glad that we could help today. I'll see you later Kate.  All right, bye.  Bye, and there you have it.  Oh wow, so that's a really cool example of how you can reduce the amount of time that it could possibly take to fix problems using both Teams and the HoloLens? That's great.  Yeah, that's right, I mean basically a lot of first line workers have problems that originally would take days or even weeks to solve and now with Microsoft Remote Assistant Teams, they can be solved in hours and sometimes even minutes.  Oh wow. Well, before you go, I have a couple of questions, but let's take a quick break and check out another app in Microsoft Teams.  With SurveyMonkey from Microsoft Teams, it's easy to work together on survey projects right where you're already collaborating. You'll create faster, draw stronger insights and get all your feedback in one place. From the store, add SurveyMonkey to Teams to collaborate on survey creation and preview results, or conduct a quick poll and a chat with your team. Say you want to get your team's feedback on a customer survey about your latest product design. Simply select the survey you want to share. Then, post the live preview of your survey and its results in a Tab. Your team can comment and provide instant feedback. Once you've sent your survey, you can view the results right in Teams. You can also set up a connector, so your team will know when new survey responses are received making it easy to share and act on your survey results in real-time. When you want to follow up with your team, simply add mention the survey monkey button in your chat, to easily send a quick poll anytime. Your surveys will automatically be saved to your SurveyMonkey account. Survey Monkey for Microsoft Teams is a powerful way to seamlessly collaborate on survey projects, helping you gather opinions at scale and find the why behind the data.  Welcome back. I hope you enjoyed learning more about some of the apps and innovations that we have in Microsoft Teams. So Sandhya, I have a couple questions for you. The first is, how do we get all this technology?  Well, if you are already a Team's customer, you're halfway there. So, that's the first step, you need a team's client running on a Windows 10 desktop, and then in terms of the remote worker, they're going to need a HoloLens, you can find HoloLens from our Microsoft Store and in addition to that once you get the HoloLens, you will need to download the Remote Assist App from the Microsoft Store. That app right now is available for public preview, so anybody can go ahead and download it if you have a HoloLens and then as long as you both have Teams, you can go ahead and start making calls.  Right, well you heard it here. If you have Teams you're halfway there and just all you need is the HoloLens and the Remote Assist App, that's perfect. All right, so HoloLens is just one example of integration that we're doing and the innovation that we're leveraging from Microsoft. Talk to me about some of the other innovations we can expect to see in Microsoft Teams.  Yeah, well, so I'm in the rooms and devices space so, there's a lot going on integrating Mixed Reality, is certainly an exciting one. We're also working a lot around how we can integrate artificial intelligence, how that integrates with some of the devices that we're auging into teams, and then the other big thing is voice assistants and how can our devices really bring voice assistants to life within Teams.  Yeah, so the Cortana assets that we have, leveraging that and integrating it into voice command skills. If you guys want to check that out, you can check out our Enterprise Connect Recap Video where we demoed a lot of the capabilities there at Enterprise Connect. Last question for you is about customers and how customers are leveraging this innovation. So, are there any success stories out there?  Yeah, we actually do have quite a few customers already using Remote Assist and Teams. We're getting great feedback. We do find that it's very useful for folks in manufacturing industries, also those who are in education, healthcare, they're very interested not only in what we're providing but also in how can they use Mixed Reality overall, to improve some of their products, some of their processes and really kind of take the next step in terms of implementing some of these technologies in the way they work every day.  All right Sandhya, thank you so much for doing the demo as well as giving us those great examples of what we can expect to see in the future. I think these innovations are really going to help our customers achieve more.  Thank you so much Delanda, I really enjoyed it.  All right, this wraps up Season One of Teams On Air. I want to thank you all for joining us for this first season in helping making Teams On Air a success. If you'd like to watch this video and all the other episodes of Teams On Air, please make sure you subscribe to the office video channel. All right, have a great summer. 