 My take on virtual production is trying to essentially recreate in CG what has been done for the last hundred years in physical production.  We like to try and relate virtual production to traditional production. So virtual pre-production is previs and some of the techvis in running up to the shoot. Then there is virtual production, which is simulcam, and potentially some more techvis. Then there is virtual post-production, which is post-vis; so taking the previs and compositing it onto the plates.  There is no other way to make the type of content that we are approaching. I cannot fly to Pandora and shoot Avatar; there is no way to do that. You have to create some mechanism whereby the directors and the creators involved can get out there and actually produce their film in a meaningful way.  Game engines, which have recently become a very big part of virtual production, they have really upped the quality of the render we are able to achieve. They have also allowed us to more accurately simulate the real world in terms of lighting. Just in the last year, year and a half, the aesthetic of this stuff has just been cranked up in how much more we can do in real-time.  Unreal is allowing us to compress the different divisions of vis, so that it is not so much a previs, and a during vis, and a post-vis. It is kind of just, you can do it all at the same time.  Just simply the fact that everything is live, and you can have a conversation with the actors, and you can make little changes -- it just makes a better product. It just makes a better movie.  To make movies using virtual production, and particularly with Unreal with all the real-time capabilities, it is an opportunity to redesign the whole process of filmmaking. Something that would take us overnight or a week to do, suddenly you can do immediately. And you can get immediate feedback on what you are doing, which opens up a world of possibilities to do things differently.  We know it will have completely gotten there when we are starting to do romcoms using virtual production. Then we will know we have definitely made it. 