Risk FactorsOur operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the sections below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.Risks Related to Our BusinessAny periods of uncertainty in the global economy and international trade relations, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue.Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand.The IC and electronics systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries’ and their customers’ products. Spending on our products and services has grown in recent years, but the current outlook for the semiconductor industry is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on our products and services.Uncertainty about future political and economic conditions, adverse changes to international trade relationships between countries in which we do business or future decline in corporate or consumer spending could negatively impact our customers’ businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs and their overall research and development spending, including their spending on our products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products and services. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, consolidation among our customers, or problems or delays with our hardware suppliers or with the supply or delivery of our hardware products could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business or adversely affect our future revenues and financial results. Our future business and financial results, including demand for our products and services, are subject to considerable uncertainty that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions or international trade relationships between countries in which we do business deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if semiconductor or electronics systems industry revenues do not grow, the ability to export or import products or services by the semiconductor or electronics systems industry is adversely restricted, or our supplies of hardware components and products are subject to problems or delays, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. During fiscal 2019, the Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) of the U.S. Department of Commerce placed certain entities who are our customers on the “Entity List,” limiting our ability to deliver products and services to these entities. When certain customers are on the Entity List, and in the absence of a license from the BIS, it will have a negative effect on our ability to sell products and provide services to these customers. Entity List restrictions will also encourage customers to seek substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions or to develop their own solutions, thereby decreasing our long-term competitiveness. In addition, although customers are not prohibited from paying (and we are not restricted from collecting) for products we previously delivered to them, the credit risks associated with outstanding receivables from customers on the Entity List could increase as a result of these limitations.We cannot predict whether or when any changes will be made that eliminate or decrease these limitations on our ability to sell products and provide services to these customers. We are unable to predict the duration of the export restrictions imposed with respect to any particular customer or the long-term effects on our business or our customers’ business. Additionally, other companies may be added to the Entity List and/or be subject to trade restrictions. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business which we cannot reasonably quantify, including that our business may also be impacted by other trade restrictions that may be imposed by the U.S., China, or other countries. Restrictions on our ability to sell and ship our products to customers on the Entity List have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Customer consolidation could affect our operating results.There has been a trend toward customer consolidation in the semiconductor industry through business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As this trend continues, it could make us more dependent on fewer customers who may be able to exert increased pressure on our prices and other contract terms and could increase the portion of our total sales concentration for any single customer. Customer consolidation activity could also reduce the demand for our products and services if such customers streamline research and development or operations, reduce purchases or delay purchasing decisions. These outcomes could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.9Table of ContentsOur failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers’ increasing technological requirements could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete.The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, rapid changes in industry standards and customer requirements, and frequent introductions and improvements of new products. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends:•changes in the design and manufacturing of ICs, including migration to advanced-process nodes and three-dimensional transistors, such as FinFETs, present major challenges to the semiconductor industry, particularly in IC design, design automation, design of manufacturing equipment, and the manufacturing process itself. With migration to advanced-process nodes, the industry must adapt to more complex physics and manufacturing challenges such as the need to draw features on silicon that are many times smaller than the wavelength of light used to draw the features via lithography. Models of each component’s electrical properties and behavior also become more complex as do requisite analysis, design, verification and manufacturing capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented and enhanced quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges;•the ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and DSPs that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC;•with the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The unavailability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customer’s design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services;•increased technological capability of the FPGA, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services;•a growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products; •adoption of cloud computing technologies with accompanying new business models for an increasing number of software categories; and•integration and optimization of solutions for system design with core EDA technologies.If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop, acquire or license new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. We must provide frequent and relevant updates to our software products in order to provide substantial benefit to the customer throughout the license periods because of the rapid changes in our customers’ industries. The market must also accept our new and improved products. Our hardware platforms must be enhanced periodically to reduce the likelihood that a competitor surpasses the capabilities we offer. Our introduction of new products could reduce the demand and revenue of our older products or affect their pricing. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. A transition by our customers to different business models associated with cloud computing technologies could result in reduced revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in keeping pace with all, or any, of the customer trends.Competitive pressures may require us to reduce our pricing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The highly competitive markets in which we do business can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our software, emulation and prototyping hardware and IP. If our competitors offer significant discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.10Table of ContentsOur Intelligent System Design strategy requires the development or acquisition of products and expertise in new areas of technology. Our inability to develop or acquire these capabilities could impede our ability to address the technical requirements in technology segments which are expected to contribute to our growth.Our strategy is meant to increase our business among electronic systems companies, which are now designing their own ICs and other electronic subsystems. Our strategy is also meant to increase our business among semiconductor companies, which are increasing their contribution to the end products into which their ICs and other electronic subsystems are incorporated. Part of this strategy involves addressing the needs of new categories of electronic systems, including hyperscale computing and infrastructure, edge computing, machine learning, 5G networks, augmented reality, virtual reality, IoT, aerospace and defense, and autonomous vehicle subsystems, where increased investment is expected by our customers. Each of these categories requires technologies and expertise that are application-specific. If we are unable to develop or acquire the application-specific technologies and expertise necessary to address the requirements of these categories, it could impede our ability to expand our business in these categories and ultimately affect our future growth.We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation and prototyping hardware and IP products.Various factors affect our operating results, and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the mix of products and services sold in a given period and the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our emulation and prototyping hardware and IP products. In addition, we have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Also, our cash flows from operating activities have and will continue to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the timing of our billings, collections, disbursements and tax payments.A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware business and our IP offerings is recognized upon delivery, and our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of hardware and IP to be delivered in a particular quarter. Therefore, changes in hardware and IP bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time.In recent years, we made significant investments to expand our IP offerings through, among other things, research and development and acquisitions. As we continue to expand our IP offerings, a portion of the revenue related to our IP bookings will be deferred until we complete and deliver the licensed IP to our customers. As a result, costs related to the research and development of the IP may be incurred prior to the recognition of the related revenue.Revenue related to our hardware and IP products is inherently difficult to predict because sales of our hardware and IP products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers, our customers’ willingness to expend capital to deploy our new and existing hardware or IP products in those projects and the availability of our new and existing hardware or IP products for delivery. Therefore, our hardware or IP sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their spending is constrained or if there are problems or delays with the supply or delivery of our hardware or IP products or our hardware suppliers. Moreover, the hardware and IP markets are highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitor’s hardware or IP product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. A substantial proportion of our software licenses yield revenue recognized over time, which may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes.The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.Historical results of operations should not be viewed as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by us, securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline.11Table of ContentsWe have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development efforts for new and existing products and technologies and technical sales support. Such investments may affect our operating results, and, if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our revenue and operating results may suffer.We have invested and expect to continue to invest in research and development for new and existing products, technologies and services in response to our customers’ increasing technological requirements. Such investments may be in related areas, such as technical sales support, and may include increases in employee headcount. These investments may involve significant time, risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the expenses associated with these investments may affect our margins and operating results and that such investments may not generate sufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments. We believe that we must continue to invest a significant amount of time and resources in our research and development efforts and technical sales support to maintain and improve our competitive position. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, or if customers reduce or slow the need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected.The competition in our industries is substantial, and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully in our industries.The industries in which we do business, including software, hardware, IP and services for enabling the design of electronic products, are highly competitive and require us to identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries, which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Factors that could affect our ability to compete successfully include:•the development by others of competitive products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue;•aggressive pricing competition by some of our competitors may cause us to lose our competitive position, which could result in lower revenues or profitability and could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our software or emulation and prototyping hardware systems products;•the challenges of advanced-node design may lead some customers to work with more mature, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows;•the challenges of developing (or acquiring externally developed) technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges;•intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price, or at all;•new entrants, including larger electronic systems companies, in our business;•the combination of our competitors or collaboration among many companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually;•decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services or IP development internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; and•actions by regulators to limit the contractual terms that either we or our customers can apply to product and service offerings. We compete most frequently with Synopsys, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation, a division of Siemens AG, and ANSYS, Inc., and also with numerous other EDA providers, manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, technical software companies, electronics design and consulting companies, and other IP companies. These include Altium Limited, CEVA, Inc., Keysight Technologies, Inc. and Zuken Ltd.We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions.We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in order to expand our product offerings. Our future revenue growth and expansion of our business is dependent on our successful integration of our acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in connection with potential transactions, including acquisitions that are not consummated. Potential and completed acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted:•the failure to realize, or a delay in realizing, anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;•overlapping customers and product sets that impact our ability to maintain revenue at historical rates;•the failure to understand, compete and operate effectively in markets where we have limited experience;•the failure to integrate and manage acquired products, technologies and businesses effectively;•difficulties in integrating employees of an acquired company or business and the failure to retain key employees;•difficulties in combining previously separate companies or businesses into a single unit;•the substantial diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired company or business;•the discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from an acquired company, business or assets, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition;•difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired company or business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models or customer support areas;12Table of Contents•unanticipated costs; or•unwillingness of customers of an acquired business to continue licensing or buying products from us following the acquisition. In a number of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee retention bonuses or contingent purchase price payments, based on the achievement of specified milestones. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to the achievement by the acquired company or business, or by the employees who joined us with the acquired company or business, of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. We may continue to use contingent payments in connection with acquisitions in the future and while we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value.Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired company or business, grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock options to employees of the acquired companies or businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of a material amount of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations or increase dilution of our stockholders’ equity interests in the company.We make and expect to make strategic investments and may not realize the expected benefits of these investments.We have made and expect to make strategic investments in which we have a minority equity interest and do not have operational control. These strategic investments may also involve collaboration agreements that further and complement our strategy and marketing efforts. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits of these investments, and the related collaborations may be difficult to manage without sole decision-making authority and the economic or business interests in these collaborations may become inconsistent with our interests. These challenges could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.The accounting applied to strategic investments depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage of ownership and the level of our influence over the entity. Losses experienced by these strategic investment entities or associated impairment charges could adversely impact our operating results and the value of our investment. In addition, if these entities fail and cease operations, we may lose the value of our investment and shared profits. Failure to obtain export licenses or restrictions on trade imposed by the United States or other countries could harm our business by rendering us unable to sell or ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States.We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in selling or shipping our products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Changes in these regulations or restrictions due to changes in trade relationships with the United States, including new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, sanctions, trade embargoes and other trade barriers, could harm our business, operating results or financial condition.The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 58% during fiscal 2019, 57% during fiscal 2018 and 58% during fiscal 2017. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies, although the majority of our revenue contracts worldwide are denominated in U.S. dollars. Volatility of currencies in countries where we conduct business, most notably the U.S. dollar, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the U.S. dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of U.S. dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer U.S. dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in U.S. dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar, it takes more U.S. dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to fund payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Approximately 30% of our total costs and expenses are transacted in foreign currencies. Our attempts to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations may be unsuccessful, and significant exchange rate movements may adversely impact our results of operations as expressed in U.S. dollars.13Table of ContentsOur operating results could be adversely affected by an increase in our effective tax rate as a result of U.S. and foreign tax law changes, outcomes of current or future tax examinations, or by material differences between our forecasted and actual effective tax rates.Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions, with a significant amount of our foreign earnings generated by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Hungary. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following:•changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws as applied to our business and corporate structure in the United States, Ireland, Hungary, the United Kingdom, China, the Republic of Korea, Japan, India or other international locations where we have operations;•earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates;•an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;•an increase in corporate minimum taxes;•changes in tax benefits from stock-based compensation;•changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets;•changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period;•increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes;•new accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; or•results of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), state, and foreign tax or other governmental authorities.The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns and other non-income tax returns, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth or franchise, property, goods and services, consumption, import, stamp, and excise taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. The calculation of our provision for income taxes and our accruals for other taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals for other taxes. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes, penalties or interest as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods.Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules, our interpretati