Risk FactorsOur business faces many risks. Described below under the headings "Risks Related to Our Business" and "Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness" are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer.Risks Related to Our BusinessUncertainty in the global economy in general, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue.Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand.For example, the IC and electronics systems industries experienced a significant downturn in 2009. The IC and electronic systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries' and their customers' products. This economic downturn in the industries we serve contributed to the reduction in our revenue in 2009, as compared to prior years. Although the semiconductor industry experienced growth in 2010, semiconductor industry revenues for 2011 remained at levels similar to 2010 and early reports  indicate that  semiconductor industry revenue during 2012 was slightly lower than 2011. Spending on EDA products and services grew moderately during fiscal 2012. 8Table of ContentsWhile spending on EDA products and services has grown in recent years, the outlook for the semiconductor industry for 2013 is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on EDA products and services.While we cannot predict global economic conditions, uncertainty about future economic conditions and future decline in consumer spending could negatively impact our customers' businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs, their overall research and development spending, including their spending on EDA products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if semiconductor industry revenues do not grow, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. However, if economic conditions improve for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to cautious customer research and development spending and our ratable license mix.Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers' increasing technological requirements could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete.The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards and customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends:•Changes in the design and manufacturing of ICs, including migration to advanced process nodes and the introduction of three dimensional transistors, such as fin-based, multigate transistors, or FinFETs, present major challenges to the semiconductor industry, particularly in IC design, design automation, design of manufacturing equipment, and the manufacturing process itself. With migration to advanced process nodes, the industry must adapt to more complex physics and manufacturing challenges such as the need to draw features on silicon that are many times smaller than the wavelength of light used to draw the features via lithography. Models of each component's electrical properties and behavior also become more complex as do requisite analysis, design, verification and manufacturing capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented and enhanced quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges.•The challenges of advanced node design are leading some customers to work with more mature, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows.•The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC.•With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The unavailability of a broad range of high-quality design  IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customer's design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services.•Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, or FPGA, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services.•A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products.•Adoption of cloud computing technologies with accompanying new business models for an increasing number of software categories, including EDA.If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop, acquire or license new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. Our hardware platforms must be enhanced periodically to reduce the likelihood that a competitor surpasses the capabilities we offer. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. A rapid transition to different business models associated with cloud computing technologies could result in reduced revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in keeping pace with all, or any, of the customer trends.9Table of ContentsWarrant transactions associated with our convertible notes will, in certain circumstances, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders.At the time of issuance of our convertible notes due in 2015, we entered into separate warrant transactions for the purchase of up to approximately 46.4 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $10.78 per share. At the time of issuance of our convertible noes due 2013, we also entered into separate warrant transactions, and warrants are currently outstanding to purchase approximately 6.8 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.50 per share. These warrants will be settled in net shares. Therefore, upon expiration of the warrants we will issue shares of our common stock to the purchasers of the warrants that represent the value by which the price of our common stock exceeds the strike price stipulated within the particular warrant agreement. If our stock price is above the warrants' strike price upon expiration of the warrants, the warrants will dilute the ownership interest to our existing stockholders. The warrants will also dilute our diluted earnings per share in periods when our average closing stock price exceeds the strike price of the particular warrant. Any sales in the public market of common stock issuable upon net settlement at expiration of the warrants could adversely affect then current market prices of our common stock. Additional risk factors related to our indebtedness are described below under "Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness."Our stock price has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to be subject to fluctuations.The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:•Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors;•Changes in our forecasted bookings, revenue or earnings estimates;•Market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries;•Announcements of a restructuring plan;•Changes in management;•A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share;•Material litigation; and•Announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers.In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware products.We have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware products.A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware business is recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to our hardware business is inherently difficult to predict, because sales of our hardware products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers and our customers' willingness to expend capital to deploy our hardware in those projects. Therefore, our hardware sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their capital spending is constrained. Moreover, the verification hardware market is highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitor's verification hardware product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower hardware revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of hardware to be delivered in a particular quarter. Since revenue related to our hardware business is generally recognized upon delivery, changes in hardware bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than do changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time.Our software license mix is such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the license mix, combined with the modest growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. The timing of our revenue recognition may be deferred until payments 10Table of Contentsbecome due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with low credit ratings.We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If the macroeconomic environment weakens, and we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes.The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "Critical Accounting Estimates" under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by us, securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline.We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components, making us vulnerable to supply disruption and price fluctuation.We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components. Our reliance on sole suppliers could result in product delivery problems and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Though we prefer to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Any supply disruption could delay our production process and prevent us from delivering completed hardware products to customers or from supplying new evaluation units to customers, which could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results.The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 57% during fiscal 2012, 57% during fiscal 2011 and 59% during fiscal 2010. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain countries where we conduct business, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States or US dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the US dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of US dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer US dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in US dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the US dollar, it takes more US dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to fund payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Our attempts to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations may be unsuccessful, and significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in US dollars.Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations.We currently are, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, including customer indemnification, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" and Note 15 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time consuming and expensive and could divert management's time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results.11Table of ContentsOur future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products and purchase additional services.Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor and systems companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers' bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us.The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries.The EDA industry and the commercial electronics engineering services industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include:•The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue;•Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity;•The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally developed) technology solutions, including hardware offerings, that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges;•The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry;•Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price, or at all;•The combination of two or more of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually; and•Aggressive pricing competition by some of our competitors may cause us to lose our competitive position, which could result in lower revenues or profitability and could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our software or hardware systems products.We compete in the EDA market most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Berkeley Design Automation, Inc. and Zuken Ltd. and many others offering "point solutions"), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. In the area of Design IP, we compete with Synopsys and numerous smaller IP companies. During fiscal 2012, Synopsys acquired Magma Design Automation, Inc., EVE SA and Springsoft, Inc. We expect that Synopsys' integration of these companies into its product offerings will result in increased competitive pressures that could harm our business, results of operations or cash flows. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. Competitive pressures could constrain the prices we can charge for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The highly competitive markets in which we do business can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.12Table of ContentsRisks associated with our international operations could seriously harm our financial condition.A significant amount of our revenue is derived from our international operations and we have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including:•The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers;•Limitations on repatriation of earnings;•Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies;•Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;•Performance of national economies; •Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•Difficulties in managing foreign operations;•Political and economic instability;•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•Inability to continue to offer competitive compensation in certain growing regions; and•United States' and other governments' licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products.Some of our international research and development and other facilities are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated because damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have a more significant adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products than other businesses that may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Furthermore, our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as cyber hacking, the introduction of a virus into our computer systems or natural disasters near any of our international locations, could significantly interfere with our business operations.In addition, internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations.We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations.Our business depends upon the continued services, efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and in other locations where we maintain facilities. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results.In addition, applicable rules and regulations require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans (including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans), and prohibit publicly-traded companies from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business.13Table of ContentsWe may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all.Developing EDA products and IP and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot ensure that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments.We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions.We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, but may nonetheless incur significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively or to integrate and retain key personnel from the acquired companies or businesses. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be seriously harmed:•The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;•The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business;•Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit;•The substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business;•The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition;•Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models and customer support areas;•Unanticipated costs;•Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and•The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience.In a number of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business, or by the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations.The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value.We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties.Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreem