 Naluri helps our users to become more mentally resilient to overcome life's obstacles and challenges to adopt a healthier lifestyle by offering personalized coaching from professional health coaches who use behavior science data science and digital design to make healthy habits stick over 16-week digital curriculum. As a primarily b2b service our users are likely to be referred to by their health care providers or by the insurer or employer. They will receive an invitation and email with an account They download the Naluri app and it will first go through an introductory screens to get an overview of the Naluri digital program. They then sign up and are brought to the Naluri chat bot for an onboarding process. Chat is the first of four key modules of the Naluri app and it's the most important pillar when the chat button is clicked the user sees a number of chat channels. The first is the user's assigned health coach, a trained psychologist. The user then has other channels to ask for advice. From a medical doctor a fitness coach a dietitian and an executive coach. There's also a group chat channel where the user is assigned to a small group of six to eight other participants who share several challenges and goals to mutually support each other. Then there is the another chat bot for online help support. Naluri has 77 daily modules comprising the first 14 modules for the first two weeks where we do not prescribe any changes but lay the groundwork to understand the users motivations stress triggers current eating habits preferred physical activities defining smart goals understanding how habits work and how they should weigh themselves and how to use the Naluri planner. There are then 28 modules related to diet and nutrition. There are 14 modules on exercise and movements that address motivations and activity tips. There are 14 modules on self-care stress management and better sleep and finally 7 modules to maintain success achieved at the end to prevent recurring relapse to pass on healthier lifestyle habits. The next module is our Thought Journal, a signature feature of Naluri. Research shows that users are 2.6 times more likely to achieve psychological well-being and succeed in adopting healthy habits through the use of journals and cognitive behavioral therapy worksheets. The final feature for the first version of Naluri will be our Photo Food Journal Research shows that users are 2.2 times more likely to achieve their weight loss targets if they regularly track their food intake and log into a journal. In the future as the digital data set from chat interactions between the users and psychologists coaches grow there are significant opportunities to apply machine learning to help coaches build better profiles and suggest interventions as well as smarter chatbots that can help improve the productivity of psychologists to increase the number of users they can serve. The future use cases include executive coaching and athletic performance, disorders, addiction and smoking sensation or traditional depression and anxiety support. Thank you 