 - Those of you who are AUSA members, I want to thank you very much for your support. Those of you who are not, we encourage you to join. We could use your support. The greater the membership, the stronger the voice. It may be a little disruptive for a while with some of these luncheons ending up just as the panel's beginning so bear with us a little bit. This is a very, very important, I know, and very interesting panel that we're about to have. Talks about Special Operations Value to the Nation. Well I think in these recent times we all understand the value of Special Operations. We cover the whole gamut here with this panel. Everything to crisis deterrence to crisis resolution. We are very fortunate also to have the State Department represented here with an ambassador. At the end of the presentation there'll be an opportunity for questions and answers. And if you could please come to the center and use the microphone so everybody can hear the question, we'd appreciate it. Without any further ado, I'd like to turn it over to Lieutenant General Ken Tovo, who is Commanding General of US Army Special Operations Command. - Okay thank you, sir, appreciate it. So thank all of you for attending here today. I will open up with just a few minutes really to set a framework for you that I hope may provide an organizing construct for the rest of the panel members as they speak. You know, as the title of the forum suggests, I'd like you to all walk away from here with a better understanding of how the men and women of the Army Special Operations Forces or ARSOF community provide strategic value to the nation. But as importantly I'd also like you to gain an appreciation for the fact that we have designed ARSOF to provide a set of unique capabilities to the nation that really represent a different approach to accomplishing national objectives. And that this combination of capabilities and approaches are really complementary to what the conventional force and what our interagency partners bring to the table. I believe that when mixed together appropriately, in the appropriate measure depending on the requirements of the environment in a particular operational area, that we form a symbiotic whole between the conventional joint force, special operations forces, the interagency, and our partners and allies. Or to kind of quasi quote Tom Cruise in the movie Jerry McGuire, we complete each other. So in support of our national objectives on any given day we've got ARSOF presence in 70 to 75 countries. We always quote generally about 3000. Today it's actually about 4300 deployed around the world in those 78 countries. Delivering what we hope is strategic value to the nation through really four complementary capability sets, it's really the how we fight. So first, and you'll see the, our paraphernalia on the walls and on the slide, but the first and foremost is our, an indigenous approach to operations that really is the core capability that I think provides a unique set of value to the nation. It's our means to help address challenges to regional stability, working with and through populations and our partner forces, empowered by a persistent effort of ARSOF engagement. We live among, train with, advise, and fight alongside people of foreign cultures. And we're leveraging a very heavy investment in much of the force in language training and cultural understanding, and then repetitive deployment so that we learn not only from an educational perspective or a training perspective, but also through an experiential one with repetitive deployments to the same regions of the world. We think that this indigenous approach provides a low cost, high impact option to address state and non-state threats, set conditions for conventional force success, and execute sensitive activities through minimal force commitments. The second capability set is really our precision targeting operations, and when I say precision targeting, I mean both kinetic and non-kinetic forms of operations. Really focused on counter network, a counter network approach to trying to impact the environment. Sometimes that's human networks, as we've all seen over the last 15 or 16 years of war with targeting Al-Qaeda and HVIs and ISIS. But it's also, we take the same approach to physical networks. Whether it's infrastructure in order to achieve an effect on a power grid or some such, or an IADS system, et cetera. And enabled by our SOF unique intelligence targeting processes, and in some cases technology. Often these are designed to buy time and space for other campaigns such as in a COIN environment, or other times to collapse a network and achieve effects on their own. Thirdly is our ability to develop understanding and wield influence. You know, going back to that SOF global presence, and the networks and partnerships that we have developed with allies and partners around the world, it gives us, we believe, an ability to generate an early understanding of emerging local, regional, and potentially transregional threats, and also opportunities. You know, I think it gives a micro context to decision makers that you can't get reading reporting in a SCIF thousands of miles away from a problem set. It's not the end all be all, but it's once again, it's a part of the whole that adds to the total understanding so that decision makers back in Washington can make appropriate judgements. Over time, our persistent presence and our repetitive contact, often with the same people over and over again in our partners and allies, also I think enables us at some point to generate a level of influence. Both at that personal level, but often more broadly in an organizational and culture aspect, and certainly something we can talk about in the questions if it doesn't come out in the conversation to follow. And then lastly, we provide the nation with a crisis response capability. And of course, that's a combination of forces that sit on alert both in CONUS and overseas, you know, kind of waiting for the call. But it's also that network of distributed forces around the world that are ready and prepared to react to crisis. When bad things happen in any part of the world, and we've got SOF there, what we try and tell them to do, the first thing they should do is call the embassy. You know, kind of call home for permission, but volunteer their services as a problem solver. And so whether it's a humanitarian disaster after an earthquake in Nepal or an attack on a western hotel in Africa, often the initial US government crisis response is, the front end of that is a couple of SOF soldiers who were stationed there for something else, kind of reaching back to the ambassador and the country team, as that point to set conditions for follow on US response or partner nation response. And of course we're leveraging these long term relationships with SOF partners that we have in a lot of these countries. So to close this out before I introduce the panel, let me just reiterate. We believe we form a symbiotic partnership with the interagency and the rest of the joint force that really provides the nation a suite of tools to choose from that is applicable across the full range of military operations. And then that maximizing the integration of SOF, conventional force, joint force, and interagency capabilities is really gonna be key as we talk about the implications of multi-domain warfare. Particularly given the predominance of and importance of fighting inside the human domain, highly urbanized areas, et cetera. It's gonna be a full team effect of all those you see represented here, and obviously the conventional force as well. So joining me on the panel today I have to my immediate right Ambassador Pyatt, currently the US Ambassador to Greece, but previously assigned as the Ambassador to Ukraine. And he was there, and I'm sure he'll talk about his experience there, was there for much of the recent unpleasantness in the Ukraine. Also we have with us Brigadier General Dave Komar, Director of ARCIC Capabilities Development Directorate. And then we have Colonel Bethany Aragon, the Commander of the 4th Military Information Support Group, also known as a PSYOP group. Colonel Brandon Tegtmeier of the 75th Rangers. And then Lieutenant Tom Craig of 1st Battalion, 5th Special Forces. And they'll provide some vignettes of their units' recent operations, hopefully as an example of those ARSOF capabilities in action, and hopefully also spur some questions and discussion about ARSOF support in other scenarios, multi-domain battle, et cetera. So with that, Ambassador, over to you, thank you. - Thank you, thank you General Tovo. It's a great honor to be here. I especially appreciate AUSA giving me the opportunity. I'd start with a very simple idea: that in a world of diffused power and shifting threats, most of the challenges that I believe we're going to see to American national security interests in the years ahead are going to happen on the seam between diplomacy and hard power, in the gray areas. And in these gray area conflicts, my experience has been that a critical relationship is the relationship and the partnership between Special Forces and the State Department Foreign Service. And as I listened to General Tovo talk about the organizational ethos of Special Forces I was struck. If you think about my own organization, the Foreign Service, and it's drilled into us from our very first tours that the most important word in that organizational title is foreign. And that the same commitment to cultural understanding, local knowledge, persistent and repeated overseas deployments in order to acquire the relationships that we need to be effective overseas, those are something that our organizations have in common. And I certainly welcome the opportunity this morning, this afternoon, to share a few reflections from my two ambassadorial assignments. Both of which took place in states, countries, at the frontier between Europe, the Europe of values, of democracy, of order, and Eurasia, and all the challenges that arise from the Eurasian landmass. And although these are two very different countries in terms of their national histories and where they are right now, in both places I have benefited from an extremely close partnership with SOCEUR. In my experience as Chief of Mission, there are a couple of key attributes that the Special Forces bring which are useful to an ambassador and to a country team working overseas. The most important is agility, speed, flexibility. The capacity to respond, as General Tovo described, to a quickly breaking conflict or challenge. The second is precision. The ability to be highly targeted in how we respond to a challenge. And the third, and critically important, and I have had a very positive experience with Special Forces and SOCEUR on the question of chief of mission authority. Because I think the best US government interagency decision making forum that has been invented is the overseas country team. It's where we bring knowledge together and bring the capacity, the full capacity of the United States government to bear. And I've been very grateful for the strong ethos that I found in working with SOCEUR in terms of working with chiefs of mission and ensuring thereby that we are all aligned in terms of our operations and objectives. In Ukraine there were three key elements of my partnership with Special Forces. The first was a fairly traditional train and equip mission to bring the Ukrainian Spetsnaz up to NATO Special Forces standards. This was actually a request that came directly from President Poroshenko to then Vice President Biden in his very first day in office, at the inauguration. And he said I would like American help to develop a real special forces. But it was also highly customized because it wasn't taking a force from zero, it was taking an existing force, and trying to reorient it to NATO organizational standards. The second pillar of our special forces program in Ukraine was an advisor, requested by the Ukrainian CHOD to help him to think about how to use this NATO model special forces capacity in his larger campaign plan. Again, that was a specific request from the government that SOCEUR responded to very quickly. And then the third was our MIST team, and I'm delighted that we'll be able to hear a little bit concretely about how MIST has worked in other settings. My experience I think was particularly relevant because if you look at the history of the Russian hybrid warfare campaign in Ukraine going back to 2014, one of the defining aspects of it was the weaponization of information. One of the things that has always stuck with me is that when you look back on the GRU and Russian special forces teams that came into Crimea and then came in to Donbass in the spring and summer of 2014, one of the very first things they did was they went to the local television stations, they pulled out all of the racks, and they plugged in ready to go electronics decks that were pre-programmed to bring in Russian broadcasting. That is a signal to us of how important that informational campaign was to the overall Russian approach to hybrid warfare. The MIST team was particularly useful in the Ukrainian context at that time because it helped to take what had been a highly insular Soviet tradition military, which wasn't very good at messaging outward, and it helped the military, helped the Ukrainian military to develop a messaging and informational campaign aimed both at their own forces, but also aimed at local communities. And it was done with sensitivity, it was done with great coordination with my embassy public affairs team. And I will share that at the time when we began this, I had to deal with a degree of unease among some of my colleagues who were worried about how we would manage the integration of the military effort with the traditional State Department informational effort. But in retrospect it was highly effective and I think made an important and timely difference. Greece of course is a very different country. It's a longstanding NATO ally. But also it's a country that's facing a shifting security environment, with challenges that increasingly veer toward things like migration, transnational terror groups, and maritime security. These are topics which are inherently interagency in nature. They cross stovepipes, and they require coordination. In the Greek case for instance between the military, the coast guard, the police, and border forces. We've had over the past two years more than 30 special forces engagements. And the one thing that I have taken from that experience in Greece is the great value of special forces as an influence multiplier. Because of how these engagements have allowed us, the wider country team, to bring in all different elements of the Greek government. Modeling interagency cooperation, fostering cooperation and trust in a way that pays dividends both in terms of the effectiveness of our Greek allies when called upon, but also in terms of developing a common understanding of threats and responses. So these special forces deployments have helped to sensitize our Greek allies to American threat perceptions, and American models of interagency coordination. But they've also provided a venue for us to learn. To hear from our Greek allies how they see the security environment, and how they are dealing with these emerging challenges. These are programs with a very, very high return on investment, bang for the buck. They don't cost a lot of money but they get a lot done. And the result with Greece is that we are now moving into new areas of cooperation that would have been difficult or even impossible to imagine just two or three years ago in terms of our military cooperation on a broad range of issues. The Greek programs have also helped to foster jointness inside the Greek system. Which is critically important as we want Greece to be a strong ally in a part of the world that crosses multiple US security challenges. You look to the eastern Mediterranean, the challenge of ISIS, you look to the Black Sea and the Balkans and the challenge of Russian malign influence. And you look to the southern Mediterranean, and the challenge of ISIS and instability coming up from the Maghreb and Libya in particular. This partnership is particularly lucrative in the Greek case because the platform that we enjoy at Souda Bay, which is both an indispensable enabler of US military operations in the eastern Mediterranean region, but also a critical venue for our forces to work together and become better allies and better partners. So I'll finish where I started. This is a critical partnership, the relationship between the State Department and Special Forces, and I'm extremely grateful based on my own experience for the asset that special forces provides to the nation in the advancement of our foreign policy objectives. I know that our Greek allies are also extremely, extremely appreciative of the quality of cooperation that we have been able to build in the special forces domain, and they're looking for more and more of it. I am very confident this will be part of the conversation in about two weeks when the Greek CHOD Admiral Apostolakis will be here in Washington meeting General Dunford and others. And so I would just finish with again this concept that I started with. In a world of asymmetric threats, the United States needs a flexible response. And that flexible response needs to bridge the world that I live in of diplomacy, and the world that General Tovo and General Komar live in of military response, and I think we've got a pretty good template for how we need to go forward together, thank you. - First I'd like to thank General Tovo as well as AUSA for this opportunity. One of the things that Commanding General of TRADOC is responsible for is determining the requirements of all army operational forces. Now not all of those capabilities are developed inside of TRADOC, we've got some, for instance we've got the Special Operations Center of Excellence that looks at developing capabilities for special operating forces. We've got the Health Readiness Center of Excellence down at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, that again looks at medical issues, as well as SMDC. But the important part is that all these capabilities all have to be integrated, and that's really where we come in at ARCIC. And really the richness of that relationship really is demonstrated by the fact that I don't know anyone in ARCIC that looks at the Special Operations Center of Excellence or Health Readiness as any different than any of the TRADOC centers of excellence. If you were to work inside these organizations it's completely transparent. There's tremendous collaboration across all of those capabilities, and people have taken opportunities to learn from each other. We're modeling some of our reforms and acquisition after what the special operations community has done for years with a very agile capacity development and acquisition model. On the force structure side, which we also do at ARCIC is the incredible value added of special operating forces in security assistance. That has really been the model by which we're developing the security force assistance brigades in the conventional force. Now if I go back, you know, more than a few years when I was brigade fire support officer, in fact for an aviation brigade, in a divisional aviation brigade, every morning we'd go in for the targeting meeting, plan the next night's deep attack. And there was always this SOF cell over tucked in the corner of the division main. And so I'd wander over and, you know, say hey, what are you guys looking at. 'Cause again, we were doing aviation deep attacks, you know, and it was, back then it was, you don't need to know, just don't, this is a no fire area. You don't need to know what we're looking at, you don't need to know what the task and purpose is, et cetera. You know, fast forward that to today where we've gone from sort of that special operating force, general purpose force deconfliction really moving towards the integration end of the spectrum. So I think we've seen some, some tremendous efforts in that pier. You know, from the material side even specifically, a lot of lessons learned from special operating forces we're applying as we're developing our ground mobility vehicle for our infantry brigade combat teams. UASs, tactical radios, et cetera. You know, the army is, again, we're trying to move towards buying less more often if you will. Particularly in areas where the technology advances very rapidly. Special operating forces have a tremendous role in multi-domain battle as we move toward the future. As we look at assuring our partners and allies. Army SOF not only contributes to building military capacity, but it also helps develop that deeper understanding of the human dynamics, which will help all of the joint force commanders as they make decisions. And again, the regular contact with that indigenous military and civilian population also provides unique opportunities to shape and distribute the narrative as Ambassador Pyatt had mentioned, the importance of the information sphere. Second, multi-domain battle objective is to turn denied space into contested space. Certainly cyber space and SOF need to be set in motion months or even years before overt hostilities. Most of the capabilities available to the Joint Force represent an outside in need to be projected, whereas your special operating forces and their partner resistance forces represent an opportunity to attack select nodes of for instance enemy IADs and fires network. The third objective is to defeat the enemy campaign. So in addition to the attrition of enemy combat power through asymmetric attack, ARSOF can also synchronize resistance activity within the Joint Force Command. It can help prevent fratricide between resistance organizations and allied formations, influence the sentiment of the civilian population in that contested area, and then challenge the adversary's ability to dominate the narrative, again. And then for fourth objective, multi-domain battle, consolidate gains. At the end of what we think of as kinetic ground and multi-domain combat, there's likely to be a transition period. Not to peace, if you will, as we've described it in the past, but back to, back to the period of competition that existed, that existed before the conflict. But what we're trying to do is through, particularly some of the contributions of special operational forces is to be able to shape that and try to prevent some of the conditions that allowed that conflict to escalate in the competition phase. So again, I'm looking forward to the rest of the panel's discussion, and the questions, thank you. - Okay, again, my name is Colonel Brandon Tegtmeier. I'm the commander of the 75th Ranger Regiment. Appreciate the opportunity to participate on this panel. The 75th Ranger Regiment is demonstrating the USASOC value propositions on a daily basis in support of Operation Freedom's Sentinel. Those value propositions are the ones that General Tovo described a little bit earlier. Before I dive in to our specific role in those value propositions I want to highlight that nothing that the 75th Ranger Regiment does do we do alone, we do it synchronized and alongside our general purpose force partners, alongside other special operations teammates within the joint community, interagency to include State, among a long list. And then with multinational partners as well. We don't do anything alone, just like everybody up here on this panel. So first I want to talk about how regiment provides a core capability of precision targeting. And so we've developed an organizational structure and expertise, of training knowledge to execute, rapidly execute what we call find, fix, finish, exploit, and analyze cycle. And that's how we target. And we target in order to produce effects against enemy networks in support of the theater commander, and in support of national policy objectives. And then as we look at the effects we can produce there's a laundry list of options for us in terms of those effects. They can be physical, kinetic, they can be information, but a whole category of them have to do with an indigenous approach and that brings us to the second value proposition. So we can execute partnered operations with host nation forces. We can enable host nation elements with small advisory teams. We can even enable simply with intelligence. So we find the target, we help the host nation force get there unilaterally, and then we help them on the back side with exploitation, so we can take advantage of the intelligence produced from that targeting. In fact, no operation that's executed in support of Operation Freedom's Sentinel is done without participation of the host nation, host nation forces. Now when you look at precision targeting, even more than the ability to produce effects against the enemy, what that precision targeting develops is understanding for us. And that understanding allows us to wield influence. And so our taskforce is regularly leveraged for our assessment on the enemy network, and we provide our assessments to senior military leaders, to US policy makers, to host nation senior leaders. And in fact we provided assessments and influenced the recent discussion on the South Asia policy, just as a small example there. And then finally, the 75th Ranger Regiment, we stand ready to provide the nation with lethal, tailorable, options for crisis response. And we train to a very high standard and we occasionally execute this to provide the nation with real world requirements. Now there's one final point I want to make about the regiment, particularly as we talk about Army Special Operations Forces value to the nation, and that is what we call our charter responsibility. So there's four different chiefs of staff of the army that directed the 75th Ranger Regiment to help improve the army through proliferation of standards in discipline, proliferation of techniques and equipment, and most importantly, proliferation of the exceptional leaders that we have inside our organization. We take that responsibility very seriously and we spend a lot of our resources and time in doing that. And while all army special operations elements have a very strong tie to the larger army, the 75th Ranger Regiment keeps a foot in that larger army enterprise in that regard. Thanks for your time. - Good afternoon, I'm Colonel Bethany Aragon. I command the 4th, hopefully soon PSYOP group instead of Military Information Support Group, but we'll see. I'm honored to be here and really appreciate the opportunity, and I look forward to discussing the future of PSYOP. And to inform that future discussion I'd like to quickly tell you a story of how PSYOP from 2011 to 2017 in support of SOC, Special Operations Command Forward in Central Africa, employed understanding and influence, indigenous approach, and then also precision PSYOP targeting to render Joseph Kony's Lord's Resistance Army irrelevant and return a generation of stolen Ugandan children. So for some background in case people aren't familiar with Lord's Resistance Army. Quickly, for two decades, over two decades, they abducted over 60,000 children, massacred 10s of thousands of civilians, displaced two million people, and then really destabilized a region the size of California that covered four different countries, Uganda, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and then also Central African Republic. At this time, we were in the midst of withdrawing out of Iraq, there was the memory of Rwanda and the perception that the west hadn't responded to the genocide there effectively. We were on the verge of another presidential election, and there was a US based non-governmental organization called Invisible Children that started a campaign that went viral called #Kony2012. So with that pressure that administration, looking for a low cost, high impact solution, established an Army Special Operations Command, SOC Forward in Central Africa to advise, assist, accompany, and counter Lord's Resistance Army across the region. PSYOP specifically in support of that was a regional MISO team comprised of four soldiers that initially got on the ground, and as you would expect we should be the lead most likely for the understand and influence portfolio. So we initiated a defection series. In the beginning we had broad target audiences, and we, knowing that most of the Lord's Resistance Army combatants had been child soldiers who were abducted, assessed that they were susceptible to defection. Given the area, unlike in Ukraine, it was significantly dense jungle. So the best means to access our target audiences was through radio, leaflets, and aerial loudspeaker operations, which are kind of the traditional what people think of when they think of psychological operations. So another thing that happened at that time was the Ugandan government decided to offer amnesty to Lord's Resistance Army combatants who did defect. So for the defection campaign to be successful, we had to make sure that when combatants defected, that they were treated fairly and that the amnesty was actually honored. So our regional MISO team worked closely with the partners in the indigenous approach, working with the African Union's Regional Task Force, and then also the Ugandan People's Defense Forces. And there is a, it's called DDR3, which is disarm, demobilize, repatriate, reintegrate, and resettle process. And we worked with them specifically to make sure that our messaging conveyed that any defectors would be treated well and that it was safe for them to defect. And that was directly countering Joseph Kony's counter-information, or misinformation campaign that they would be not treated well. So using an indigenous approach we created a community of interest that included the Bureau of Conflict Stabilization from State Department, there was a local NGO that we worked with, Pathway to Peace who was led by actually a former child soldier who had been abducted in 2006 and was able to effectively defect on his own. And then we also partnered with Invisible Children, and then there were also local and cultural leaders that were part of this community of interest. And through that process what we were able to do eventually was to identify key leaders within the Lord's Resistance Army that were prone to defection who would then be able to inspire multiple defections. And so in 2013 we had the first mass defection, and that was 19 Lord's Resistance Army combatants. And so then we would debrief them, learn more information, use them to help us create new products to continue to communicate to the rest of the combatants. And I'd just quickly like to highlight one of our last and most notable defectors. So Michael Omona was actually Joseph Kony's personal RTO. And we found him through a connection and a process that Pathways to Peace was able to use through family tracing. And we located his uncle, his daughter, and his mother. And so we were able to get messages from the three of them. We had a voice recording of his mother, begging him to come home. We had pictures of his daughter and his uncle that we put on leaflets. And then we went back and figured out where he would be located and we targeted him. So if you can envision yourself walking through dense jungle. You yourself, if you're Michael Omona, were abducted, you're working for a leader who absolutely at this point is clearly unhinged, and also not inspired by the original motivations that many people joined the Lord's Resistance Army for. So he's susceptible. And then as he's walking through the jungle, he hears over an aerial loudspeaker his mother's voice and her message begging him to come home. Then he sees leaflets that have his daughter's picture begging him to come home. His uncle who really raised him and was like a father to him. So in January of this year, he walked for two weeks to defect to the Central African Republic, and turned himself in to the African Union Regional Task Force. And again, since he was the RTO, we got valuable intelligence from him that let us know exactly when their communication windows were. And then they had a special code language that they would use so he gave us the key to that. And so it was, it was monumental really in rapidly ending the Lord's Resistance Army effectiveness in the area. And so we closed out that mission early this summer. And there was a 24% increase in Lord's Resistance Army defections just within that year after we started the process with the community of interest and doing the precision targeting on the key leaders that were able to influence additional defections. And five of six Lord's Resistance Army leaders are either KIA or being tried by the international criminal courts. And there was a 95% reduction in civilians killed, and then also the Lord's Resistance Army was rendered ineffective and taken down from a force of roughly 2000 to less than 100. So it was the most effective PSYOP campaign on the continent to date. And one final thought I would like to leave you with is that in light of this vignette, which is obviously a pretty primitive one, unlike the one Ambassador Pyatt talked about, where information was weaponized by a near peer nation state. As I consider PSYOP's role in the future in a multi-domain battle against a near peer, what does readiness mean for us? We cannot wait until the deployment to find the Michael Omonas of the social media network, find who their network is and who can influence them. We have to be doing that persistently if we are gonna be ready and relevant in a multi-domain battle against a near peer going forward. Thank you. (audience applauding) - [Man] Good job. - Hi, I'm Lieutenant Colonel Tom Craig, and I have the good fortune to command a special forces battalion from 5th Special Forces Group. About a week ago I left northern Syria and I'd like to tell you a little bit about what Army Special Operations forces there are doing. I had the benefit, or the good fortune to command a task force composed of SF A teams, some outstanding civil affairs teams, and some military information support teams, as well as marines, Air Force SOF, and a conventional army cavalry unit. What I'll tell you about northern Syria is that the indigenous approach is absolutely working. SOF teams as I've just described are uniquely suited to this task and we had an opportunity to see that play out every day for the last six months that I was there. The reason I think that Army SOF is so incredibly well suited to this approach has to do with their regional orientation and their unique training. Multiple members of my unit were on a second rotation to this specific area, and on a third or fourth rotation to the Lavant in general. The cultural understanding, the Arabic language skills they brought to the battlefield, make them incredibly able to build rapport very rapidly with our partner force. And to use that rapport to wield that influence to keep the partner force on track to support our coalition's military campaign plan, which is what I think we see playing out every day. In Syria I think it's important to note that our Army SOF teams are advising a partner who is in the lead. The partner's working to liberate terrain, the partner's also working in advance to secure the victory after liberation. And it's one thing we don't talk about very often but our indigenous partner is supported and advised by army special forces teams, by army civil affairs teams, and by military information support soldiers, already are preparing for victory before they achieve it in newly liberated terrain. The indigenous Syrian partner is already conducting civil military outreach prior to liberation as advised by our Army SOF civil affairs teams before they go. I think it's important to note. When we keep a partner like the one we have there in the lead, they own the aftermath. And I mean they own the aftermath in all the positive ways that conveys. Because they know when they liberate territory in northern Syria they'll be charged with continuing to secure it, to keep it safe from ISIS and to support the population that wants to return there rapidly, they plan ahead. And the liberation works faster and in a more efficacious way with less destruction when we support a partner in that way. So the indigenous approach and the light footprint provided by Army SOF teams in northern Syria keep that responsibility firmly on the partner's shoulders in Syria, and I think we're seeing the benefit. There's four ways our Army SOF team enables our partners in Syria, I'll talk a little bit about them. I think the most important one is training. And the training we provide them enables them to just be more effective and take fewer casualties and move the campaign forward faster. The second is some equipment, we do obviously provide them some limited equipping. Then our advice, and finally our operational support in the form of the air support that we're able provide them, and also intelligence as you've heard discussed by some of the other members of the panel. This relationship we have with this partner creates an incredible level of trust. And our relationships and that trust feed the understanding not only back here in Washington but also by senior military commanders who have tough decisions to make about our path ahead inside of Syria and Iraq. So we're able to provide that contextual understanding, or the why behind the decision that our indigenous partner makes. And often that context, knowing that context, can help a senior leader make a better judgment or a more informed decision as otherwise that they'd be not privy to without that kind of, that behind the scenes context for decision makers. And so we pride ourself on providing that from the field. The other reason, the other thing I want to talk to you about army special operations teams in northern Syria, the other important thing to note is, I think we're also uniquely suited to provide scalable, tailorable mission command nodes across the battlefield. It doesn't always have to be big. It doesn't always have to be too small and therefore unprotected. We're able to scale the size of our mission command nodes across the contested battle space in order to be kind of just right or best fit. Sometimes too big can often equal a little bit too slow, but sometimes too small can equal unprotected or not enabled enough like I mentioned a moment ago. So our ability to scale the size of our C2 nodes across northern Syria I think also makes us a great tool for this particular mission. I also want to point out that in northern Syria we're absolutely fully integrated with our conventional force brothers. Almost a third of the task force I had the privilege to lead was conventional force marines or army. And their contribution was incredibly valuable to us. And there really isn't, there isn't much they can't do when enabled as part of our SOF team in northern Syria and I'm quite proud of them, quite frankly. There's been a lot of talk about what our interagency partners are doing in northern Syria. It's common knowledge that a lot of our colleagues, some of our colleagues from the State Department are on the ground and they're doing a tremendous job. There should be no question about how well integrated our Army SOF team on the ground is with our State Department colleagues and our USAID colleagues in northern Syria. It's one team. And they can also, and I don't want to speak for them, but they can also employ a light footprint approach when the sensors that our SOF task force provides are fully available and transparent to them. And so when they need to make judgments across a vast area of northern Syria, or to try to understand it better, and everything that the Army SOF team on the ground is learning and seeing every day is available to our colleagues from the State Department or from the interagency and it makes us incredibly fast. And they can share their knowledge and expertise from years of dealing with situations just like this one with our Army SOF team. And particularly with our civil affairs teams, that makes them incredibly good too. And so in closing I think we're uniquely suited to support the indigenous approach and I'm obviously a huge fan. The partner in northern Syria's capability, when enabled by a small footprint of Army SOF on the ground makes them just incredibly effective and fast and has obviously resulted in what I think to be is a campaign that's absolutely on track. And so with that I'll turn it back to General, Lieutenant General Tovo. - Okay thanks, hopefully we kind of cut a pretty wide swath across the world in some of the things we're doing. Hopefully that generated some questions. We tried to keep it relatively short so we'd have maximum time for questions. So who's got the first one? She's closer to the mic, and we'll go with her first. - [Susan] I'm Susan Katz Keating, I'm with AUSA. I have a question about indigenous forces and lessons learned. A number of years ago I spent quite a bit of time with Montagnards who fought with Green Berets in Vietnam. And the consistent story they told me was, they loved working with the Green Berets, and then when we pulled out of Vietnam the Montagnards were left on their own. And this was very troubling to the Green Berets I spoke to and also to the Montagnards because it was just basically politics, you know, they got left behind. And it took them years and years and years to finally get out of Vietnam, to safety, at great risk to themselves, and to come to the US. So is there any attention given to lessons learned on working with indigenous forces and what happens when we leave. - Yeah, so it's interesting that you picked the Montagnards. Special Forces still have a relationship with the Montagnards, in fact, many of them that did eventually get out moved to North Carolina, the Raleigh area. And in fact they're participants even now in our special forces qualification course. We've got a whole scenario that involves them role playing interactions with an indigenous force. So the relationship that was built in the '60s and '70s continues to this day. But you're asking really a broader policy question of, you know, when the US commits to achieving effects in an area, and we choose to do it through an indigenous approach, what level of commitment are we making to that partner. Is it a short term marriage of convenience if you will, or is this a long term national commitment to goals of our own, but also that our partner has. And it's different in every place. And, you know, once again, it's not to the tacticians to choose whether or not we have a long term national commitment. We hope we do is because what happens on the ground is we've invested not only our own time and effort, but connections are made, personal relationships are made. And so I think, you know, the story Tom talked about with the Syrian Defense Force there, the SDF, is a classic example. That's a decision waiting to be made of what's the US long term policy commitment to that group in northern Syria, and we'll see how it plays out. But it's not really ours to answer. We certainly get a chance to advise upward and inform decision makers of the level of commitment that our partner has shown to us, and frame it appropriately, and also frame the potential downsides if we withdraw support from that partner. It's kind of a, almost a diplomatic question to answer, and so I'll see if the ambassador has any comments he wants to make. - I'll leave it to you, thanks General. - Go ahead. - [Wes] Sir, I'm Wes Morgan from Politico. We've heard a bunch at this conference and in the news recently about the tragedy last week in Niger, and about the possibility of AFRICOM and the Pentagon kind of reevaluating the security parameters of what US advisors are doing there. My question for you, General Tovo, is isn't such evaluating rigorously done by the SODIF and the SOC Forward in theater, on the ground in West Africa? And so, you know, I mean, what aren't they doing, if anything, I mean, is it appropriate for higher echelons to second guess them over casualties when they're advising in a fight against obviously an intelligent, adaptive enemy that can cause casualties on occasion. - Yeah, obviously this is an ongoing investigation and examination. I would say that in my view it's appropriate after an event like we had last week in Niger for examination at every level. I think we owe that to the American people, we owe that to the mothers, fathers, and wives, et cetera, of the fallen to look critically at everything we've done at every echelon to see if we can do our job better. And frankly we'd do that regardless of whether somebody from outside in asks us to or a higher level command does, does that. I can guarantee you that even at that team level they're already conducting critical self-analysis to say, could we have done something differently. But I think it highlights really the fact that every one of, every mission around the world that we're undertaking has got elements of risk. And so we've been put there by national decision makers who have said that there are national objectives to be obtained with a mission to seek out as part of the overall US government effort in most places at the, you know, kind of under the direction of a country team. And we're evaluating risks and potential gains each and every day. But it's a dangerous world and there are plenty of people out there, plenty of organizations that don't like who we are and what we represent. And so our soldiers understand the risks. And that's, I hate to say it, but that's you know, it's part of the cost of doing business. But we certainly evaluate each and every operation to understand if we've made the right balance. And I don't think anybody at the lower levels thinks that's being second guessed. - [Wes] Thank you. - Go ahead. - Hi. I'm Kevin Baron with Defense One. On the fate of the SDF and the future of these indigenous forces, I wonder if, I know it's not your decision to make, but we've reported about a bit of a divide between those who are doing the training on the ground and the State Department or other part of the government that has the larger consideration of what to do about balancing out the SDF state or Turkey's considerations. So without having to say what your advice is can you explain what are the, what would be the effects if the decision is made to cut off the SDF of some kind, or pull back. What is the effect on both the local force and security in that region, and how does it impact your own units who have to do this work and maybe be asked to do it again a second time, or somewhere else. And a second question that perhaps, from the 75th, the Colonel could talk to as well, we heard earlier this week General Milley say, talk about the new SFA brigade idea and the security assistance broadening out to the rest of the conventional force. Could you talk about how that affects your own abilities for recruit and retention and your thoughts of that force being created and a little bit more tell us how, working with them, how that would work in that future. I've heard some concerns that there, there are some concerns about retention in special forces already. So kind of two different questions there. - Okay. - Thank you. - You know, for your, kind of the impacts at the local level, Tom, why don't you see if you can. - Yeah, I'll be happy to. Obviously, like you said earlier sir, we'll take direction from our national policy makers with how long or how deep the length of our partnership is with any particular partner in any particular country. I would say that when you look at the efficacy of the SDF, it's exactly nested with our coalition's military campaign plan. And so when you look at what the SDF want to achieve and you look at what our 67 nation coalition wants to achieve inside of the land space of Iraq and Syria, they're very closely aligned. And you don't see a lot of deviation between what one particular partner wants and what the combined joint task force and what our coalition team's goals are. And so again, as any particular nation or member of that coalition makes different choices, it's obviously gonna have impacts on the ground for the people who were there and for the particular partners and member nations. But when you look at where they want to go, and when you look closely at where the SDF are intending to head, they're heading in directions that are not, in my view, from the ground, and in my particular opinion in tension with our key allies or other partners. And so for that, when I look at where they want to head, it seems in line with what our coalition intends to achieve inside the land and air space of Syria and Iraq. Obviously deferring to the joint task force charged with that mission to answer that question more fully. But when you look at where their goals want to go, I see them in line with our coalition military campaign plan and continuing to stay aligned with our coalition military campaign path for some time. Which makes them a great partner in my view. Militarily there's a lot of efficacy there. Sir. - Sir, I can tackle the SFAB question. I don't know where you went, there you are. So whenever the army's kind of standing up a new unit there's naturally some friction and some tension there going on. But bottom line, long term I see, I see little to no impact on out ability to recruit, assess, and select personnel, so. I mean, specific to the regiment or the army's premier special operations raid force. We'll always be very attractive to the kind of folks that we want to have come to our organization, and I don't see chief of staff of the army's manning priorities changing for the long term. Now the SFABs, we, and USASOC as a whole is involved in helping the army stand those units up, and based on what they're gonna do, where they're first going to Afghanistan, we are integrated with them because we're gonna be working with them for the foreseeable future there in Afghanistan. - Yeah, the only thing I'd add on really on both of those questions. The first one, you know, in the end the tactical situation and the opinion of our folks at the tactical level can inform the strategic discussion, but in the end we're one component of an overall strategy within the military. And so the tactical considerations are one aspect, but in the end it's gonna be a broader strategic decision on national objectives and it may not be driven by the tactical, what looks good from a tactical lens, and we expect that to happen, and it's happened before, and you could argue that the example given of the Montagnard relationship was one of those examples. Not our call to make but we inform the discussion. And then lastly on the SFABs I'll just add to what Brandon said. From our perspective at the USOC level, my perspective, I don't see it as a competitive capability. Once again, more of a complementary capability. There's a lot of work to be done, particularly in places like Afghanistan, on helping to improve the capability and capacity of our partners. And there's much more work to do than SOF alone can do. And so we're very involved in trying to help where we can with the army on developing that capability, on advising based on our own experiences, but in the end I think it's gonna be a complementary capability that really helps the army refine it's ability to help partners. Sure. - [Howard] My name is Howard (muffled speaking). I'm twice retired, once as an 06 with some MIKE Force time. Once as an FS1, and there are a lot of folks in this meeting that don't know what the latter part is. Special forces works very well with the embassies, I've been in UCOM 11 years and I know you guys can work with the interagency. The rest of the army, there is a group of people that also worked for me with the interagency. They've served at embassies as attaches, OTC chiefs, sometimes as liaison officers. But does the army, is there any way, and I ask the question of General Komar, particularly as you were forming advisory brigades. They tend to gravitate towards the J5, or G5. And you don't find them in J3, or the G3. So when you actually execute the operation there's nobody that has the sensitivity. Particularly as you're forming advisory brigades. But do you keep track of these people and try to put folks with this, it's two cultures, and I understand both. And the folks that do understand that, to track them and put them in places where they can be very useful to regular troops rather than special ops. - The answer to that is no absolutely, we do. In fact we have a functional area of, it's functional area 48, a foreign area officer. And these are the individuals that typically work in embassies, but there are positions for them in other place in the army. Would we like to have more, so that we could put them in more headquarters, absolutely. But again, if you know, it's a zero sum game when it comes to expanding one part of the army. You're gonna have to take something else down. But we do track them, I mean, in fact the current CSTC-A commander is, she's a foreign area officer. - Well I'm a FAO, too. - Yeah. - [Howard] When I became a FAO the MI branch stopped sending me (speaker muffled by distance from microphone). But a lot of the folks are combat (speaker muffled by distance from microphone) And they're they're the folks that wind up as the J3 or G3 somewhere. And they're the folks that has to have some understanding (speaker muffled by distance from microphone). - No, I appreciate it, that's a great insight. And again, sort of managing shortages if you will, a very scarce resource. That, you know, by the time we take an officer, send them to language training, in country training, actually serve in an embassy, again and we've only got so many. But I absolutely agree, you know, more's always better. The more language skills you have, the more cultural awareness skills you have, it would certainly enhance capability. Then the issue comes, okay do we have the right person in the right organization. You know, you got to say, okay well this individual is a southwest Asia expert and their division winds up deploying somewhere else. So that's, the management of specific people becomes problematic as well. But you're absolutely right, thanks. - [Patrick] Hey, thanks, Patrick Tucker with Defense One. Two questions for two different panelists. For Colonel Aragon, Aragon, excuse me. That was a great anecdote, story, that a lot of people here really appreciated it. And it seems like the more times you would tell that story the more often people would say to you, oh well just take that thing that you just described and apply it to this problem set that we're seeing, and this problem set over here. So I wonder if you could talk very briefly about what are the conditions that need to be in place for a MISO operation like that to be successful. Like, what do you define as your window. And do you feel like State Department, the interagency, and the Pentagon has a new appreciation for how effective those sorts of influence operations can be now. And for Lieutenant Colonel Craig, and also Lieutenant General Tovo, on the SDF we know that the area where they are operating and where you're operating with them is one of the most complex and difficult. And we know that last month there's some conflicting reports between the Pentagon and the Kremlin about how Russia targeted forces that were working close to US forces. So the question is do you feel like now there is a fix in place to make sure that that sort of event doesn't happen again. And if not what would you like to see to make sure that the forces that you're working with aren't in any way impacted by any deconfliction mishaps in the future, thanks. - Thanks for that question. So to the conditions that I would say would need to be in place for us to replicate a MISO campaign like that for success in other environments, you know, back to really the indigenous approach. We were reliant on a very capable and knowledgeable and well networked partner force. And the community of interest that I described. And it took time for us to build that rapport and credibility with those partners, which is why there was kind of the long lead time until we really experienced significant increase in our effectiveness and ability to target with precision certain leaders within the Lord's Resistance Army. So there's just that knowledge base, and that's kind of, my closing comment was directed towards that lead time that we need, and we can't wait until the deployment. Particularly when it's with a multi-domain battle against a near peer competitor. And additionally what was critical to the defection series is a government that respects and, so that like I said the Ugandans, the Ugandan government had the amnesty for former combatants, and so that has to be honored and there has to be trust between the citizenry and the government that that amnesty will be honored. Otherwise it's not effective. So in many cases the information we have to put out must be truthful and we must be able to follow up. So actions and words align. - And then with regard to your question about Russia and the SDF and the complicated battle space, what I'll say is, yes, I think the deconfliction mechanisms in place are good enough to prevent a similar recurrence provided that all the parties honor the deconfliction mechanisms they've agreed to. And obviously our combined joint task force in Kuwait would be the better, you know, would be the better forum to provide a more specific answer, but under their leadership I think we've seen some very prudent measures undertaken to ensure that deconfliction occurs. There are no guarantees on the future as we continue to maneuver against a tough enemy, and with the fact that ISIS will make use of maneuver, and attack both parties at the same time obviously makes it a complicated battlefield. But I think both parties absolutely have their heart in the right place from what I've seen. Although the future is uncertain. - [Patrick] Okay, thanks. - If I can, you also asked was there a new appreciation, I'm sorry. - [Patrick] Yes. - And so with that respect, you know, there is a new joint function of information. And so I think there is recognition that particularly with anti-access area denial means that we are seeing exhibited that information, particularly when you talk multi-domain, information exists in every domain, and as long as there is a human being in some part of that decision making process or kill chain, that that is somebody that can be influenced with information. And so I do think that there is a growing appreciation within our government writ large that we need to capitalize on information and consolidate our efforts towards that from an interagency process. - [Patrick] Thank you, I appreciate. - [Selena] Thank you to the panel. My name is Selena Hayes, I run a consortium of individuals that do problem solving, primarily in Africa. My question is for Colonel Aragon. I've worked with Invisible Children since 2008 in Uganda, very familiar with the mission that they were on and the programs that they were running. In fact, I introduced Invisible Children to Jim Linder when he was at SOCAFRICA. So, yeah, great vignette there. And I agree, persistence is key in this new space. But what I would argue is that the enemy has a changing face. So I often say that the new enemy is a 15 year old girl on Snapchat. So how in our strategy moving forward do we consider these new platforms and this new enemy when really most of us in the room really don't have an understanding of what that new enemy looks like, or those new platforms that are being used. So I would welcome a discussion on what are some of those recommendations that we could put in place, and where we start engaging technology and maybe looking at gender as an indicator in some of these competitors. - Thanks for that question. So I think particularly as we look at multi-domain and as you mentioned the evolving technologies, we have been, that's I think the reason why I haven't read the new FM 3-0. But the shift to multi-domain battle and focus on that because there's recognition that we have had overmatch as a force and so our enemies adapt and find other means to deny our force projection or stymie our efforts or impede our interests. And so from my perspective as a PSYOP officer, what I would like to see absolutely is my force in order to be ready to be relevant in a multi-domain battle, be able to practice, be able to understand, build awareness really persistently, be able to be engaged in the modern information environment on all platforms at all times. So that we're aware so that when the need arises for us to take action in that environment, we're familiar with the platforms, we understand the networks, and we're able to illuminate it for the joint force commanders and our interagency leaders, and apply PSYOP effectively without a big lead time. Hopefully that answers your question. - [Woman] That's a really good, I don't think this is on so I'm just gonna talk loudly. That's a really question into my question. What is the training response to that requirement in that multi-domain practice area with the evolving technology and the need to maintain flexibility for adopting enemy TTPs, things like that. How are we exercising that in training? What's the problem and what's your idea of a potential solution? - I think that probably others on the panel will have answers to that also, but I will just quickly say from a PSYOP standpoint specifically, you know, we have a new, as of this summer, commanding general for special forces, Command Major General Beaudette. And so he has taken significant steps already in command to position us to be able to move forward from our training base at Fort Bragg. And so he has an initiative that he has us working on that will seek to gain the authorities and permissions for us to be able to persistently understand and illuminate the information environment. So we do have capability at Fort Bragg, it's just right now we have to take a deliberate approach to how we will allow soldiers to operate in that space from CONUS because there are obviously some sensitivities with intel oversight and stuff like that. - Bethany, could that be done in conjunction with the Foundry program? - Sir, I'm familiar with the Foundry Program, I'm not familiar enough to be able to speak to really how those would align, but absolutely we need to be in lock step with the intel community communicating that we recognize their concerns, they are legitimate concerns. Frankly if you look historically at the application of PSYOP, the reason that we changed the name to MISO is because it is somewhat in conflict and tension with our national values. And so we have to find a way though in this modern information era where it is weaponized and used against us, to wield it while still respecting our national values and in a disciplined way that mitigates any concerns from the intel community. - Yeah, I think, you know, the training challenge, you asked how do we train this, I think the training challenge is how do you replicate a human ecosystem, which is really what we're trying to do in the information related capabilities is, is effect and influence human behavior, human thought process and for lack of a better term maneuver in this cognitive space. And so in order to really train against that you'd have to replicate a society and all the information related systems therein. And that's kind of tough to do out at the NTC or the JRTC, our national training centers. So really it comes down to, for them to practice their skills, to really do the target audience analysis and to understand the themes and messages and how they might impact on various societies, they've got to be studying, living in those environments in which they may be called to operate. And that's what Bethany's talking about is, so right now from an authorities perspective we have a limited ability to do that from CONUS. So from a training perspective for her to put her soldiers on net so to speak and do the things they need to do to practice their skills and hone their capabilities, we don't have the authorities to do that. - [Woman] To be clear, my question was for the entire panel, not just for some. - Yes. - But thank. - Others, comments? - Yeah, not necessarily limited to that, but I would argue that a lot of the things we see, a lot of the short duration enemy asymmetric threats we see in Syria are actually replicated at the National Training Center at our Joint Readiness Training Center. Enemy drones, and the enemy use of, obviously of improvised explosive devices. Enemy short duration attempts at GPS jamming. And we don't want to get into too many specifics but a lot of the things that we see replicated in our training centers by near peer adversaries can be found in Syria just for, far less capability, far less capable enemy than a near peer adversary, but our teams in Syria have actually seen things and trained on things at NTC and JRTC that they've experienced in Syria. And we see that every deployment. - Yeah, so I think there's two different, it's kind of two different topics. We got the information operations piece of this and then you've got the cyber aspect of the problem that, and within cyber you've got your intel collection piece and then you've got your effects or offensive cyber aspect. And you know, that gets after what Tom was saying. That stuff is being replicated pretty well in the training centers. And I will tell you, we are executing multi-domain battle and synchronizing effects against all domains every single day forward, and that includes the cyber domain. - Yeah, and one last comment on that too, we talked about the training centers. The other thing that's replicated at the training centers is that interagency environment. So out at the JRTC there is a former ambassador who replicates the ambassador of the country, and then other interagency partners. So when the players in a scenario go into a country team meeting, they're not dealing with Ken Tovo trying to play like he's an ambassador, they're dealing with a former ambassador who has sat in the chair, who asks the hard questions that will be asked, particularly as we're operating in that gray space that Ambassador Pyatt described. Which is a different environment than a combat zone. - [George] Sir, George Nicholson, Washington Liaison Global Special Operations Forces Foundation. I attended the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing last week chaired by Senator McCain and the issue was the strategy in Afghanistan, and the strategy in Iraq. And he indicated that he has placed a hold on any DOD appointments, including Owen West as the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, Joe Kernan as the Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence, and also the Secretary of the Army. He said there is a problem with the relationship between congress and the military. But it goes back to a year ago I attended the confirmation hearing for at that time Lieutenant General Tom Waldhauser, who is now the African Command commander. And Senator McCain specifically said to him, do we have a strategy for Africa. And without dropping a beat General Waldhauser said, absolutely not. And Senator McCain paused, and he said, this is the most refreshing answer I've had to a hearing, and so did Senator Reed. But since then, in the last year, since the Marines have stood up their quick response task force at Maron, unclassified, with four MV-22s there, two KC-130Js, and the 600 marines, unclassified, six hours response, wheels in the well, to respond to issues in Africa. General Waldhauser, he said, this is a key element that I have to support my theater. And also in his new guidance, three key things. One of the three is the development of a close relationship between Special Operations and what we have to do in theater. I see that as a huge enabling capability for my theater and my theater strategy. Again, what you see of that ongoing relationship, maybe it goes back to General Waldhauser, people don't realize it, having been a previous chief of staff down at SOCOM. - Yeah, once again, I don't live in the operational side. And certainly not, more of an observer of that relationship but from all intents and purposes from what I see is that we've got a good relationship between the theater Special Operations Command, SOCAF, and the AFRICOM headquarters. Certainly that would be more their question to answer though as to the state of the relationship, but from what I see, as with all our TSOCs, they work for the combatant commander and they're, once again, there's generally good relationships across the globe. - [Ted] Hi, question for General Tovo, Ted Sarandis, I'm a proud volunteer for soldiers in south Florida and an AUSA member. I know you talk to the combatant commanders, and I've followed your career as a student of Army Special Forces, and thanks for your tremendous leadership of our ODAs and our operators on your multiple deployments. Just interested in your thoughts, sir, and I'd also like to get our other special operations commanders up there to comment, how are we doing in the fight currently in Afghanistan against both the Taliban and ISIS and how are we doing not just in Syria but also in Iraq against ISIS. And then obviously the million dollar question is how do we win, how do we keep ISIS and radical muslims from coming back here at home and attacking and killing our civilians, thank you. - Thanks for that question, I expected that question, which is exactly why I brought Brandon Tegtmeier and Tom Craig, who are much more intimately familiar with both of those theaters, command in that theater. So Brandon, would you like to start? - Sure, sir. Okay, so you know, your comment on how do we win. That's the million dollar question, and that's what policy makers have been working through since we started this fight. And I'll just kind of keep this, I'll keep this down at my level, and kind of what we're seeing and focused on, so. Since the South Asia policy decision, I'll tell you the Afghans that we work with are very, are optimistic. There was, you know, a level of uncertainty prior to that decision, and, you know, the government officials, military, Afghan military leaders, there's, you know, there's some good optimism there. There's a lot of good news stories in Afghanistan right now. A lot of them that you can see, but, but the fight, you know, there's still a lot of, a lot of fighting to be had, and I think what the, what the policy decision has meant most at our level is that we need to plan for the long term, not that gonna there for long term, but that's the way, that's what we are doing right now, is planning, planning for the long term. And an example of what that really means is strengthening our relationships with the Afghans that we're, that's so critical. Strengthening the relationships with our interagency partners there. And so that's kind of the biggest, I think probably the biggest take away from recent events there. But there again, there's a lot of, a lot of good news stories against all the enemy networks there. But we're certainly, certainly not ready to, to slap the table, and it's gonna be, it's gonna be some time. You know, I think it's healthy to stop trying to think of this fight like it is a World War II type of fight, or a, you know, there's there Clausewitzian, this western way of war that's really not this fight. And so I think it's healthy to get away from that line of thinking and get, focus on, you know, producing effects, prioritized against, you know, threats to the homeland there, and that's what we're focused on. - Tom, good luck. - Yeah, I'll comment mostly on Syria, which is where my expertise is. And the answer to how we're doing is pretty well. The enemy is still tough in Syria, and he's a long way from defeated, but you can really in my view, in my ground tactical view, you can see how the ground campaign will play out from where we stand. And I think we've done really well over the last year in northern Syria, and that's really, it's really because of the dedication of the SDF and the predominantly Sunni Arab composition of that group that wants to get back home to places they have been evicted from for too long. Particularly in the Middle Euphrates River valley. And so what we're seeing now is a cumulative effect of a lot of Sunni Arabs who want to join the SDF and push back to get to their homelands, and there's almost nobody fighting harder than a guy who's fighting to return to his home town, or to the area he's from in the Middle Euphrates River valley. And so I think that's what we're seeing right now. So I think it's going pretty well in Syria. We've seen an enemy that's continued to lose terrain really for the past 18 months and never regain it, and never make any gains back in the opposite direction inside Syria. I think one of the reasons that's working and the reason we are going to win I think in northern Syria and how we're gonna keep the victory secure is because we have a partner in Syria who is absolutely committed to establishing representative indigenous legitimate councils along the way. As new terrain is liberated we're seeing the Syrian liberator put the right folks in charge and support them and let them have a say over their local affairs. And so from the bottom up in cities across northern Syria, we see the example, the template, repeated again and again, and we see it improved upon every time. And so now as we see the SDF advancing toward the Middle Euphrates River valley, yes there's challenge, we talked about deconfliction a second ago. That's obviously one of the things that may continue to be a challenge and we have to watch for. But the civil councils, and the ability of non-government organizations, and our State Department colleagues with some help from the DOD to get humanitarian assistance in to the right place immediately following liberation, makes a huge difference. And so because we're able to get humanitarian assistance in to really challenged populations, and the SDF work very hard to establish representative councils very quickly ahead of liberation, so that people have someone to look to for dispute resolution, and for good governance, and for a little bit of initial services. Get the water back on, get the power turned back on, get the rubble removed, get food back in, get some doctors and medical care to these IDP camps that spring up in the wake of any conflict like the one we're seeing in Syria. Because we're seeing local councils able to manage that so well in the wake of liberation, I think what we have there is a template for continued victory in northern Syria, and to keep liberated terrain liberated. And so I'll just close with, I have seen, and I looked for it constantly in my last six months, but for signs of fracture in the alliance that would lead toward instability in the parts of Syria that we're liberating, and I see none. And I looked for signs of insurgency, behind that forward line of troops and that leading edge of battle, and I also find none. And so you'll always have pockets of ISIS resistance that get bypassed or that are able to sneak into liberated terrain. I'll tell you watch Syrians turn them in as absolutely quick as they can, and you watch them point out ISIS infiltrators at checkpoints and in IDP camps, and that's a great sign that we're on the right path to victory, is when people will calls the cops and turn in ISIS, you know you've got a population that's far less susceptible to insurgency in liberated areas that we see. So it's not all good news in northern Syria, and there's a lot of terrain left to seize and a lot of terrain to keep seized, but I think the path to victory there is because of this particular partner's dedication to establishing local councils that really do a good job, and that really represent the people in each city, sir. - Ambassador. - Thanks General. Just a quick comment prompted by something that Brandon said about the moment that we're at in the international system right now. And I would just say, just to be autobiographical for a second, I joined the foreign service in 1989 as the Berlin Wall was coming down. Of my 28 years, all but six of those have been spent overseas, and I've been in a lot of different places, in Asia, in Europe dealing with proliferation, other things. I've never seen an international system as complicated as what we're dealing with right now. Power is diffused in the way that it hasn't been over the space of my professional career. A lot of that is a result of technology. Some of that is the result of how the world is changing, how economic power is being diffused. I think a lot of what we've talked about in this panel today is relevant to thinking about how we preserve American preeminence in that environment. I would say two things that we haven't talked about, one word that hasn't been used a lot is allies. And I would just underline, as somebody who's working in the capital of a NATO ally, our alliances are what set American apart. They are our greatest source of strength in dealing with the world that we confront today, and we need to work very, very hard to hold on to those. And I think on Bethany's point about this new hybrid warfare environment that we've dealing with and the phenomenon there, I think one task that wasn't mentioned when we talked about the training and doctrinal challenge that that presents is, how do we help our allies understand this challenge, and how do we become effective partners with them. Because they are facing some of the same issues but the United States is well ahead of our allies in thinking about how we consider this informational environment as a security challenge. Second, since the question of FAOs was raised, I would just note, as somebody that's worked with a lot of FAOs over the years, it's an incredibly lucrative investment of US Army resources if I can say so myself. I mean, one of my closest friends in my diplomatic life was a guy who finished up his career, Colonel Steve Sobotta finished up his career as Defense Attache in New Delhi, India when I was the Deputy Chief of Mission there. Steve deserves an enormous amount of credit for the fact that we now count India as one of our strongest partners in Asia. And that's the result of individual relationships that he had forged over the course of three or four different deployments to India, the local knowledge he had, the time he spent at their National War College, and his ability to be an interpreter between the commander of PACOM, the top US military leadership, but also to help us all navigate. And it's one guy, and in an organization like the US Army or like the State Department that does not celebrate the individual, you discover with FAOs that sometimes a single individual makes a decisive difference. And I would just say, you know, the last point in terms of dealing with this very complicated environment that we live in today, the world of grays, as General Tovo and I have talked about, the United States still remains an unmatched force for good in the world. And that goes back to alliances. And the strength of our alliances, and our ability to retain those allies is a function of how attractive our model, our political model, our social model, remains. And so we have to think about that as part of the informational challenge, as part of the political challenge, how we govern ourselves, and then also how we think about presenting our best face to the rest of the world, thanks. - Thanks. (muffled speaking) - [Man] I have two questions. First, for the entire panel. I think Colonel Aragon made an excellent point about how anyone who is a decision maker can be influenced, and I think there's a corollary to that that any action we take can also have an influential effect. In that context, and in a world where any activity we are undertaking can potentially be in the information environment, I would ask, you know, what are we doing to prepare the total force, outside the IRCs especially to operate and understand the effects of the information environment on the activities they're conducting. And what are the requirements to make sure that commanders as they're going forward in the future have the ability to appropriately understand informational effects as they're going through their decision cycles. And second, to Ambassador Pyatt especially, I'd like to hear your view of the relationship between the GEC, public diplomacy, broadcast board of governors, these kinds of organizations and the army and broader DOD IRCs and how that relationship should change to sort of accommodate the changes we're seeing in the broad information environment, especially since 2014, and with some of the lessons learned from Europe, thank you. - I'll kick things off here. I have always thought about any kinetic action as it's actually an information operation. And that's, I mean, that's everything we do is an information operation. And that, you know, we're much better off if we think that way. So every single action we take when you talk about kinetic finish options for us, whether it's a raid of a kinetic strike. We're thinking through, okay, what are we trying to achieve with this effect and it's an information goal, it always is, so. I'd like to think we're kind of there and certainly from, when you look at negative effects, of some things, some mistakes we've made. - Because again, I don't even really hear people talk about well, you know, what about, how do we operate in the human domain. No, everything we do is in the human domain. - Just to add, the best IO is indigenous IO. You know, and the best by, with, and through approach that we'd use for fighting also works in the information domain. And so when we can get our partners messaging, we can have civil councils in Syria publishing the good work they're doing to supply stability or to distribute resources to the population. Where we can have the SDF or Arab components that are fighting to liberate terrain put the message out themselves with maybe a little bit of advice. When we can have it be indigenous generated, I think we get a big win there and it happens far faster and to a more tailored message than when we try to do it. As good as we are, I think we want a partner that's capable not only of fighting the enemy but also of messaging the enemy for themselves. And so what we do I think as a team is we advise them on how to do a lot of information operations on their own, and that's where I think some of the information officers and psychological operations officers and NCOs that are part of our task force were incredibly effective is not in doing it themselves but teaching an indigenous partner how to do that faster or more effectively using the tools they have. And with technology so ubiquitous they know how to do it, they just need a little coaching and they can get incredibly effective. - And just to build on Tom's point I think that our engagement with our partners and using that indigenous approach helps us understand the effect, the influence effect that all of our operations activities and actions have. Because sometimes I think we think we know the effect that they're having and we will inevitably never get it right all the time. But the mental exercise, like my colleagues have mentioned, of trying to understand it and then really working with our partners who can inform our understanding of it is an initiative that I've got, at least within my group, our leadership looking at, being able to help inform joint force commanders and interagency leaders on the effects that we'll be achieving. And there is a movement about for narrative based operations not unlike in previous times, effects based operations, narrative led operations. But I think that we really need to look at what the influence is on the adversary, on neutral populations, on our allies. But using the indigenous approach and our partners to help inform that understanding is critical. - Good, well first of all thank you for the question because it lets me match General Tovo in quoting Jerry McGuire, and my favorite line from that movie, which is show me the money. And in this regard I would say first of all we owe a vote of thanks to Senator Portman, Senator Murphy, some of the other congressional leaders who've really pushed the whole interagency to tackle this problem and have put a little bit of money on the table to deal with it. I think for those of us out in the field some of this stuff is still pretty early days. You talk about the GEC and the RIG, and all of these other interagency things. For somebody who's at the ground level in terms of the execution of some of these efforts, we haven't seen a lot of effect yet. And it's still at the coordination between State and the Pentagon, congressional notifications. But I think the good news is people are now alive to the problem. And as, you know, as the points earlier alluded to, this is a much more complicated environment than I think people were used to thinking about. Again, when I came into the foreign service I can remember old USIA officers talking about how they would take a projector and throw it into a four-wheel drive and drive out into the bush and show American movies. And that's what messaging was. It's a little more complicated today. In fact it's a lot more complicated because we live in this world of instantaneous global availability of information. A world where anybody can put an idea out there and you get it to go viral and suddenly that becomes the truth. So I think we need a multilevel response to this challenge and we've just started to think that through. And again I come back, first of all, Tom made exactly the right point about indigenous messaging. If there's one thing that I've learned on this issue, our most credible channels of communication oftentimes are not a US government official. Oftentimes it's a local or an ally or a partner. And that's again why this question of helping to build capacity among our allies, especially our core allies, whether in Asia or Europe or elsewhere, in terms of how we think about this problem. And then lastly I would just say, and back to Jerry McGuire, when we do get to the show me the money part of the equation it's really, really important that all of us out in the field, and again you know, back to the message on unity of effort, interagency cooperation, and in particular the partnership between those of us who are out there getting dirt on our shoes from time to time dealing in the real world. And so I think we'll get to the right place on this but I would, you know certainly if I was asked I would say we're in the very early days of thinking through what the whole of government response to this new information environment looks like. What is for the 21st century the equivalent of that guy throwing a projector and a couple of film reels in the back of his four-wheel drive and going out to the countryside to tell America's story. Which is, as I said earlier, that's the most compelling weapon we have is the story of America. The success of our society. But we've got to think about how we do that in a much more complicated information environment. - [Sean] I'm Sean Naylor from Newsweek Magazine. A question for Colonel Tegtmeier. You mentioned that some of your Rangers are now functioning as small advisory teams. Given that both unconventional warfare and foreign internal defense are core special forces missions, how do you in Syria and in Afghanistan divide up that advisory mission between yourselves and special forces. How do you decide which element gets which sort of an advisory team. And what do you perceive to be the difference, if any, in capabilities between a small Ranger advisory team and an ODA. - Yeah, that's a great question. So clearly there are some capabilities that an ODA comes with that, you know, Rangers, we don't train to, we don't necessarily have the experience in. But we also come with some expertise of our own. In some of the ways we execute precision targeting, some of the ways we execute raids, how we collect intelligence, et cetera. So there's a couple of aspects to figuring out who's doing what. One, there's a bit of a capacity problem, right. There's only so much, you know, so many ODAs to go around, so many Rangers to go around. So that's part of the problem. We also have certain forces, host nation forces, that we have been beside and have helped build through, you know, since we've been in Afghanistan. And we have habitual relationships with them, and so naturally Rangers are gonna be with them, and then special forces teams are gonna be with other types of Afghan Special Operations units. But really the point I want to make is that we have all, and this is not just for Army Special Operations, but this the entire Army, this is the entire DOD, we've got to be able to adapt to what we need to do at the time. And we get wrapped around the axle about, you know, the bureaucratic systems on how we adjust force structure, you know, tables of organization and all those things. But at the end of the day, we've got to be able to adapt as quick as the enemy. And so if there is a need out there for Rangers who prior to 9/11 traditionally we did unilateral platoon to regimental size raids, and we still do that. But now most of our operations are alongside host nation forces because we need to. And so we adjusted and we train to that, built relationships and built that capability. But we are doing it alongside of our Green Beret teammates, just like I stated earlier, you know, we're never doing anything alone. We're always partnered, so. But at the end of the day we just, we've got to be able to do what the nation needs us to do. We've got to be able to adapt at least as quick as the enemy, and usually the enemy is outpacing us. Unfortunately. Hey sir, can I just jump back to a previous question? So the question about how things are going. I think as a AAR how I answered that question, I think I'd be remiss if I didn't take the opportunity to be a little bit more specific on what's going on in Afghanistan and what we're seeing of that enemy because there are out in open source, you read a lot of different things. So I will, I'll give you some specifics. And this is what I mean when I say there's good news. So let's talk Taliban. Last summer, we were essentially, not this past summer, but summer previous. We were essentially defending Kundus. I mean, that's how strong the Taliban was up in the north. And down in the south they had significant control of areas down in the south as well. This summer, completely different situation. Afghan Security Forces are pressuring the enemy out in the deeper areas well away from Kunduz, they do not have the strength to muster an attack or haven't up 'til now and it doesn't look like they will up north. Down south, same thing, they just don't have the control in the areas that they did down in the south. So there are a lot of good news stories in terms of the Taliban. ISIS K, we killed three ISIS K emirs within 11 months. And they have lost almost all their terrain that they controlled down in southern Nangarhar. They're moving into some other areas with think, but bottom line, significant effects against ISIS as well. But again, the fight's not over. And so there's a lot more to be done. It's gonna take some time, but there are plenty of good news stories. So you'll see both out there in open source. You'll see the bad news, you'll see some good news. But I wanted to throw the good news stuff that we're seeing right now, back at you, thanks. - Do you have one more, okay we'll go with one more question if we could, thanks. - [Man] Just a quick one for Colonel Tegtmeier, you mentioned the degradation of ISIS and the Taliban. Obviously, one of your regiments missions is to keep a lid on the core Al-Qaeda threat in Kunar Nuristan as well. You know, you guys killed a big one of theirs last fall. What's sort of the current situation with Al-Qaeda in northeastern Afghanistan. - Yeah, so Al-Qaeda's a, you know, interesting, interesting group. I think I'd rather stay a little bit general on that one. And I'll just say right now we are being effective at protecting the homeland. I'll just kind of leave it at that, thanks. - Well done. Okay, so I think we've pretty much exhausted the questions and answers here. I appreciate the opportunity to talk to you a little bit about the ARSOF team. Really appreciate the participation of kind of a broad set of experiences across the panel. Ambassador thank you very much, Dave thanks as well. Once again, let me start where, or finish where I started, and that's that we think we're part of an integral part of a joint and interagency team that serves the nation. We provide a unique set of capabilities from an ARSOF perspective. It works well across the spectrum of conflict. In that gray zone environment as the ambassador described that's heavily interagency led, heavily country team led, all the way up to the high end multi-domain battle scenario where it's much more of a conventional led operation. We think we have the ability to provide unique capabilities in all that. I appreciate your attention and with that I'll turn it over to General (mumbles). - Well it's very apparent that we enjoy very unique special operations capability through out military. On the world stage today unfortunately we also have a very high PERSTEMPO and OPTEMPO. And I think for the foreseeable future that's gonna remain. It was mentioned that we've come a long ways in the integration of our special operations forces and our general purpose force. I'm an old Vietnam guy and I've seen the evolution of Special Operations Forces to where it is today, and that has improved immensely. The challenge in the future I think is going to be able to how are we gonna sustain and improve that in the training base and in the institutional base there. And pull in, as was mentioned, the interagency, and our allies and coalition partners so we can get better and better as we address these threats. I want to thank the panel on behalf of the Institute of Land Warfare, and I'd ask everybody to please join us in a round of applause for them, thank you. (audience applauding) 