 {music playing} If everyone could take a seat. We are going to start. And to begin the competition, I'd like to invite President Satish Tripathi to say a few words {applause}. Thank you Graham and good afternoon everyone. I am really delighted to welcome you to the inaugural three minutes thesis competition hosted by our Graduate School and the Blackstone LaunchPad here at UB. The 3MT competition has to be really tough, not for the judges, but for our students, many of us have gone through a thesis, a doctoral thesis of some kind and some of us almost 40 years ago, some of us more recently, and I don't think many of us ever thought about giving the whole thing in three minutes. It could either be 10 seconds of what I am working on or if you want more it could take 15 minutes, 20 minutes to listen too. So this, this must be really tough but I am told that you already have gone through one level of competition and this is now the final competition and you are under strict time limits So that again is tough. I was under a strict time limit, but I have already exceeded my time here so you can see it is not easy to be on a strict time limit. I also want to welcome and thank our panel of judges from the community for their willingness to participate in today's competition. Thank you so much for being here {applause} It is indeed an impressive achievement to reach this point in what has been an impressive competition so I want to congratulate our finalists as they talk about their doctoral work. UB is a research university and actually approves a fair share of doctoral degrees every year. Approximately 1 in 10 doctoral degrees confirmed in NYS come from UB, so really it is a major contribution to the state and our alumni lead all over the span. They work in business and industry, they are in the sciences, they are in academia, they are in the arts and culture and they create their own industry. Many of the PhDs, as well as others, do all kinds of work actually. It is not just we produce PhDs to clone ourselves to teach someplace else, they work in many different fields and they make great contributions. So I am very eager to see how our doctoral candidates will bring their innovation ideas to the floor and the betterment of our world and I am looking forward to listening to it and learning something about their research. Thank you again and congratulations.{applause} Thank you President Tripathi. I am Graham Hamill, vice provost for graduate education and dean of the graduate school. and I want to welcome every body to this three minute thesis competition. The competition is a campus wide competition that asks advanced doctoral students to present their research to a panel of non-specialists in just 3 minutes. Student who go over three minutes are disqualified from the competition which sounds very harsh and I'm sorry to begin with a harsh note. It has been very gratifying to see the strong, positive response to the event from students and faculty across the campus. The 3MT competition is cosponsored by the Graduate School and Blackstone LaunchPad and a lot of people put a lot of work into making this event possible, but I really want to single out, very briefly 4 people without whom this never would have happened: Hadar Borden and Rachel Stern from Blackstone LaunchPad and Sandy Flash and Sue Adinolfe from the Graduate School. They have been working on this event for about a year and really deserve a special round of applause. So, I'm just going to say, very briefly, a few words about the competition and the events that lead up to today. The three minute these is an international competition. It began in 2008 at the University of Queensland. and now the competition is being held at over 350 universities across more than 59 countries The competition has two major goals. The first is to share, recognize and celebrate the excellent research undertaken by doctoral students. The second goal is to encourage graduate students to sharpen the ability to communicate their research, both concisely and effectively. At UB we understand the importance of advanced research which is really central to our Mission. However communicating that importance can be more of a challenge. Doctoral students spend their days in libraries and laboratories talking with other academics and when you're in that world it can be difficult to explain the value of your research. I think, I think about going home after I've been working on my dissertation, going home for Thanksgiving and trying to explain to my parents or my cousins what I've been doing for the last couple of years and getting kind of blank looks and just kind of stopping after that. However that said,if your research is going to have an impact on the broader world then it has to be communicated and it has to be communicated effectively. The three minute thesis competition aims to help graduate students do exactly that so UB’s three minute thesis competition, began actually this past fall with a series of workshops and the workshops were open to any graduate student who was interested in participating, any graduate student at UB. The workshops focused on the skill of communicating research. Graduate students who were interested in participating in the competition were then able to nominate themselves by submitting a 90 second YouTube video describing their dissertation research and its importance to a non specialist audience. Today's finalists were selected from that group and I would just say that the committee that made the selection was charged with choosing 12 finalists but they refused and chose 15 because of the high quality of the, of the work that was Submitted. In preparation after being selected in preparation each finalist received individual coaching from a Blackstone Launchpad venture coach and participated in a training session led by Dr. Robert Knopf from the Department of Theatre and dance so everyone here is very well prepared. Over 120 graduate students participated in the initial workshops 30 students entered the first phase of competition and as I just said we now have 15 finalists from doctoral programs across the campus representing all fields of study broadly speaking, the sciences, engineering, medicine, social Sciences, arts and humanities. Since this is a competition, there are of course prizes. The first-place winner of the competition will be awarded a prize of $1,000, the second-place winner will be awarded a prize of $750, $500 for third place. There also is going to be a People's Choice Award of $250 which goes to the best presentation as selected by the audience here today. Our hope is that the award winners will use these funds to advance their research, maybe attend a conference or go to an archive or buy something for your lab, but it's also okay if you include a little bit of a celebration in that as well. I know you're eager for the competition to begin so I'd like now to introduce Scott Weber, vice president for student life, who will introduce the judges and the participants in today's competition. {Applause} {Scott Weber speaking} Good afternoon everyone, it is really a pleasure to serve as the emcee for the three minute thesis competition, especially given that this is our first One, it should be an incredible event. The PhD students presenting their research today that are all sitting here eagerly awaiting their turn will be judged on their communication style in two different ways. First was the research communicated in a language appropriate for the non specialist audience? And second, was the one static slide they will be here allowed during each presentation clear and helpful and enhancing the presentation? In addition the presentations will be judged on Comprehension, did they make the audience understand the research, and finally presenters will be judged on how engaging they were, did they leave you wanting for more? I'm sure they will. We are honored today, as President Tripathi Said, to have an esteemed panel of judges, looking down on them now, and they are very ready for this to start whose evaluations will determine our first second and third as Vice Provost Hamel already described. Our panel of judges is made up of community leaders with a range of, from a range of industries, from the arts and journalism, to medicine and engineering, our judges are experienced professionals who have mastered the skill of communicating their work to broad audiences and therefore recognize the development of this critical skill in graduate students and potentially the global impact of global research. So let me ask you, to help us, give a warm welcome to our judges and let's start with Maritza Baez is a family medicine physician, Lifetime Health Medical Group. {applause} Elizabeth Licata, editor-in-chief, Buffalo Spree Magazine. {applause} Michael Murphy, president, Shea's Performing Arts Center {applause} Samuel Savarino, president and CEO Saverino Companies {applause} and Jim Wehrfritz,   0:10:56.410,0:11:06.490 President, Erie Niagara Consulting. {applause} Now ladies and gentlemen, as vice provost Hamill also said, you get a chance to be a judge and this will be, the audience's choice, called the People's Choice Awards and your votes will determine that and we'll have information for you later in the program, it's also in your program, at the end if I remember correctly, but as you're thinking about it, just keep thinking about each of those presentations. The other one thing I wanted to do before I forget and I'm sure you haven't forgotten is to turn your phones off because when you have three minutes something that could be incredibly distracting is your phone and I would even ask you maybe to turn it off if you can rather than just mute it, that's your call so now on to the competition. Our finalists today represent our finest at UB, I'm going to introduce each finalist to you, as I'm doing so, they will come down and up on stage and prepare to present. I will finish my introduction with the words, Ready-Set-Pitch and I had to make a flyer because I want to say ready-set-go, so I've got it here now and I'm going try not to make any mistakes, but if I say ready-set-go I'm not going to stop you, you just go, and the finalists may then take a moment to sort of collect your thoughts and center themselves, and they've been all told this, this Information, and then they can start and when they start, you'll see the timer here click and the slide will appear and I know you're going to be very enthusiastic for them and encouraging but again they are under strict time limits and so I know that you will be very respectful and no cheering from the audience during the presentation right? So I think we should get started. What you think? Okay! So starting us off will be Phil Schneider and Phil is going to talk about tests phantom fingers for higher biometric security. His faculty advisor is Dr. Kwang Oh, in the Department of Electrical Engineering. A few fun facts about Phil is he has a cotton candy machine in his lab which he says he only uses for research, which I'm very happy to hear. He's a level 32 in Pokemon, #Team Mystic and he is a New York Prosperity, WNY prosperity fellow, so Ready, Set, Pitch! {silence as Phil joins the stage} {Phil Schneider speaking} This of a human behavioral or physical characteristic. This could be anything from an AI skin, to the way you talk, to a fingerprint, or Behavioral, how you walk or do you have an accent? We use biometrics in the world all around us today, whether you're traveling across the country and you have a passport that has your biometric, maybe you're entering in your cell phone and using your fingerprint, that is also a biometric. What if I told you though that your biometric may not be that safe? What if I told you that if you were to give me your cell phone I could lift a fingerprint from your screen, mold a finger around that phone and get right back into your cell phone? I'd have access to your emails, your Contacts, your text messages Apple pay, Google pay, maybe even a bank account. This happens. This is easy to do, hackers do it, terrorists do it, and PhD electrical engineers can do it. This is a problem that industry has been trying to solve and it's costing them millions of dollars and it's a problem that my research is trying to solve. I create what are called test phantom fingers and they're essentially replicas of human fingers that recreate the physiological structures inside. My hope, with my Research, is to measure subdermally or within the finger to use that as a Biometric. So inside the finger we have things like flowing blood, we have things like arteries and veins, I work with company’s fingerprint sensors to calibrate their system to image subdermally. I give them, my test phantom finger and they image it and they recognize whether they're doing well from a system performance or poorly. My test phantom finger has to be physiologically accurate Right? So I have arteries, veins, fat, Muscle, skin. I have fingerprints, I put bone in there, blood that flows through, it has a heart rate to it. It also has a capillary network and when I say capillary network I want you to think about a very small fluidic network at the tip of your finger. How small? Roughly a hundredth of the size of a human hair, just enough for a blood cell to flow through. How do we recreate that? Cotton candy. Turns out the sugar strands of cotton candy, the fibers, are the same size as a capillary network. So I'm utilizing cotton candy in my research to recreate that capillary Network, to create a really realistic test phantom for these companies to test on. My hope for this research to create a more secure biometric imaging subdermally to protect both your data as well as my data and with that thank you. {Applause} [Music] {Scott Weber speaking} I just can't resist. I think Phil when you ever say I'm going to give him the finger it's going to mean a quite different thing now. {laughter} I just couldn't resist. Our next presenter is Lucy Kafkova whose title, of her Dissertation, is figuring out African Trypanosomes, I'm sorry trypanosomes, one protein at a time. Her faculty advisor is Lori Reed in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology and some of her things that she'd like us to know is she owns a sugar glider and quite frankly I had no idea what a sugar glider was until I looked it up and I'm not going to tell you unless you, you may already know. She loves magic, dragons and heroes. So Ready-Set-Pitch! {Lucy Kafkova speaking}In a world where everybody asks where is the prophet? Basic science works with slightly different equation, you put the money in and what comes out is knowledge. Basic science is driven by human clear, curiosity and I am very curious about molecular biology of African Trypanosomes. Trypanosomes are single cell parasites that live in human blood and cause the sleeping sickness. Don't worry, you do not have it unless you went to Africa, got bitten by a really big ugly fly and now you are often feeling like you have a bad flu. In that case, you should get yourself checked. The disease is deadly and not treatable when caught too late. I know molecular biology can sound intimidating. So let's make it more fun. Let’s imagine the trypanosome as a Rube Goldberg machine. The receptor on the surface picks up an input, sends a signal into the cell, the signal then travels through a protein cascade until ultimately causing a certain outcome that will be helpful to further trypanosome to deal with whatever the input meant. Except it is not quite this simple. Trypanosomes contained over 10,000 unique proteins that participate in thousands of very intertwined pathways like this one. My task is to find out as much as I can about the protein that modifies the shape and therefore function of hundreds of other proteins. So how do we do that? Well my favorite way to start is to create a trypanosome that cannot make that protein and then look for what breaks, did it stop moving? Is the metabolism broken? Can it divide? Then we can also lyse the cell causing the whole machinery to spill out, isolate our protein of interest and look for what sticks to it. Once we think we know what's going on,we can make the proteins, put them in a test tube and try to replicate simple events that take place in the cell. By these and other methods, I have discovered that my protein of interest, actually in order to do what it's supposed to do, has to be in a complex with very similar but slightly broken protein. This was very surprising because in humans and other organisms this class of proteins tends to work as a unit of two identical units. So I'm very curious about how this novel arrangement is going to prove advantageous to the trypanosomes or what's going to happen next. Anyway, why am I doing this? Is it really worth spending several years of my life to find this function of a single protein in an odd parasite? I think so. We are uncovering the secrets of life, one puzzle piece at a time and often the pieces that go together come from very unexpected sources. We never know what's going to prove very crucial in the end and therefore we need to keep trying to find out everything we can. Thank you. {Applause} {Scott Weber speaking} Thank You Lucy. {silence as students switch on the stage} Our next presentation is from Holly Keily whose title is Gesturing to make a point: Who is that gesture for? Her advisor is Jürgen Bohn nom, I'm sorry Bohnemeyer, from the Department of Linguistics and you know Holly's got some pretty interesting things going on. She has been all over the world, she's a soccer certified referee, loves snow enthusiast and she's an expert in Perl Ready-Set-Pitch! {Holly Keily speaking} We wave our hands around when we talk, it's okay, everyone does it it's fine we're gesturing. We use gesture to help us describe the size or shape of Things, like this fish I caught that was Actually, it was this big! {moves hands far apart to show a large size} You'd never believe that. We use gestures to give people directions on how to get places, to explain how things work, like a Rube Goldberg machine, we use gesture when it doesn't seem to mean anything at all. So what is the point of doing it? You can understand me without seeing my gestures and I can talk to you without gesturing but that's not what people do. We use gesture. Who are we gesturing for? There are two kind of answers to this. I could be gesturing for myself, the speaker. I can be gesturing to help me remember what I'm going to say or think of the word that I want to use. I could be gesturing for you the audience I could be trying to direct your attention to me, or something else, or I could be gesturing to illustrate something for you so that you can come up with a mental image of it. I want to know which one we're doing. I had people watch events and then describe them and I watch them describe things to other People. I found that we have a negative correlation between the rate of gesture and the length of a description, so that means that I get really short descriptions with a high rate of gesture a lot of gestures. I'll get something like the following: there's a girl and she has this kind of like mallet thing {waves hand in a circle} and a long stick in front of her and she takes the mallet and she smashes the stick {swings arm to represent hammering motion} and it goes everywhere. That’s like 25 words and maybe eight Gestures, that's a lot. I also get really long descriptions with very few gestures so I'll get something like this. There’s a girl and there's a table and there's a stick on the table and the tables may be trapezoidal I think it's kind of a light brown color but it looks like it might have a tablecloth over it, but anyway she has a hammer and she uses the hammer to smash a stick {hammering motion} and it goes all over the place and some of the pieces land on the table and some of the pieces land on the floor. That's like 50 words and one gesture. That's a little unusual, that's Unexpected, it's not what I thought I would get. What does it tell us, well it kind of tells us that we are gesturing for the audience, because if I was gesturing to help myself as a speaker I would expect that as I say more things, I need more help and so I gesture more to help myself more so I can say more. That's not what people get, that's not what we're doing because implies that my gestures are something that I'm doing to try and communicate to you specifically. I want to visually highlight, underline, Bold, italicize, or emphasize something that I think that you should think is Important. So, who am I gesturing for? Well, at least when I'm describing events I'm gesturing for you. Thank you. {Applause} {Scott Weber speaking} Thank You Holly. {silence as presenters switch} Our next presenter is going to be Gokhan Kul and his title is "Et tu, Brute?": Detecting insider attacks to databases. His major faculty advisors are Shambhu Upadhyaya and Oliver Kennedy and they're in the department of computer science and engineering and I don't know if he's in, I don't, he likes to play guitar, he was going to be a scientist from an early Age, but when he took a little break, he watched a little Gossip Girl apparently. So, Ready-Set-Pitch! Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me your ears and imagine a world where Julius Caesar had not gotten stabbed by his friend Brutus. In that world, maybe he would have conquered Britain, maybe William Shakespeare wouldn't have written his play “Julius Caesar” and maybe his name would be Marco Shakespeare instead of William. Enough counterfactuals though, let's fast-forward to our century. I'm sure you have heard the names Bradley Manning and Edward Snowden on the news. Although they were trusted people, they stole critical intelligence documents and released them. The worst came later in 2015, the Office of Personal Management of the US disclosed that someone had acquired personal information of 22 million federal employees, including employees with the highest level of security clearance. Whoever the thief, they put the security of the entire nation at risk. They risked your families, they risked your friends, they risked your freedom. Did they get caught by the security measures in place? No. Remember there are layers and layers of security measures in these systems, against hackers, but an employee is already inside these layers and may have access to a lot of information that nobody had. My research focuses on detecting insider attacks to databases, attacks coming from people you trust. I monitor behaviors of users and how they interact with organizations database. I use query logs For, I use the query logs and these query logs are the records of questions that people ask to the database and the way they ask them. We collected three real-world data sets, one from a national bank, one from smartphone applications, and one from student assignments to understand how people write the queries. We use these queries to create personal profiles, the detection mechanism depends on these personal profiles and uses statistical Information, statistical methods to understand what the change is about. You may think that maybe we are overreacting we should trust our employees that is Correct, completely correct, but better be prepared, better be prepared than sorry, right if you don't believe me you may ask my friend Julius Caesar over there I'm sure he will watch for me. Thank you. {Applause} {Scott Weber speaking}  Thank You Gokhan. I’m trying to give the judges just a little time when they're doing their score sheets between these. Our next presenter is going to be Chong Zhang and the title of the presentation is An Enzyme to Remember With No Strings Attached the faculty adviser is James O'Donald in the department of pharmacology and toxicology She loves apparently, bad jokes and Wikipedia and we're super excited to have her here as well so watch come up on stage and Ready-Set-Pitch! Remember one time when you walked out of the shopping mall, went into the parking lot and for a second you forgot where you parked your car? Once or twice that's okay but when, when this keeps happening or even worse when it comes to a point where you can’t find your way home and that person is probably going to be diagnosed with memory disorders. As unfortunate as that can be there are no treatment only a few FDA-approved drugs have shown to relieve the symptoms but none of them slow down or reverse the disease progression. Now come to think of it memory disorders may result from a wide range of causes so it is difficult to pin down to a specific drug target based on that. Alternatively it's not a bad idea to think about the memory process itself and that's what I'm interested in. Decades ago a signaling molecule called cyclic AMP was found to be critical to the memory process in this cyclic ANP also known as CAMP is controlled by an enzyme called PDE4. Back then a drug was found to inhibit PDE4 for an improved memory both in lab Animals, which we work with in humans, exciting right? But this drug also produced severe nausea and vomiting and for years its seemed impossible to separate the beneficial effect and the side effect. For my dissertation project I've been working with a biotech company and a new class of PDE4 inhibitor and specifically we talked about PDE4D which is a small group of PDE4. Now let's take a look at this image here think of when you are trying to wash your hands. On the left the old drug turns the faucet all the way up, gives you a big stream of CAMP it gets the job done but you also end up splashing Yourself, just like some brain areas of Flooded, and on the right, the new inhibitor that targets PDE4D, gives you just the right amount of water flow and lets you efficiently wash your hands. You’ve probably figured out by now less is more, as I mentioned before, we work with lab animals how do I know it's the same for humans well for starters we made a mouse model that expresses human type PDE4D and I've shown that this new inhibitor improves memory in this mouse model and more importantly without causing any concomitant nausea and Vomiting. I've also looked at the actual changes in the proteins and the activity level of the brain that are caused by this drug and all those informations houses this may indeed be a better functioning brain. My data supported phase one trials in humans, in which this new inhibitor, first in its class, showed promising results and this brings hope to not only people with Alzheimer's, but also those with other memory deteriorating conditions, even like aging, Thank you. {Applause} {Scott Weber speaking} thank you Chong. Our next presenter is Antonella di Guilio, whose title is Fountain of Youth For Brains: A Map of Sounds. Her faculty advisor is Brian Moseley and she's from the department of music and she was born in Germany but clearly Italian and speaks four languages and so we're super great, it's super great to have her here, so Ready-Set-Pitch! {Antonella speaking} would you like to live forever? If you think probably not, but would you like to be forever young? Maybe yes. We haven't found a fountain of youth for our bodies but we might have found one for our brain. Our brain is a powerful instrument, it is 90 billion nerve cells and an infinite number of pathways for the brain signals to travel through. The bad thing about the brain is that it will start to shrink at a certain point in our life, but here's the good news, we have a powerful anti-aging product which is music. Research has shown that just listening to music can improve our cognitive abilities. However many researchers, when dealing with music, they feel lost because they lack knowledge in music theory. They cannot really identify which combination of sounds is influencing the brain and why. So what if these researchers could use a kind of GPS to navigate complex music analysis? They will be able to translate sound information that music theorists will give them into data for their research. That would be awesome right? So let's compare the different musical genre to places on a map and then compared a piece of music from a certain point to destination. The certain points of orientation on this map are a particular combination of sounds, main characteristics are of this route or special effects. In a three-step process my sketching method is translating traditional music analysis into an easy to read but detailed 3d map of any piece of music. The first step will look at another view of the piece and will identify the main point of interest, the second step will aim to identify the details of the point of interest, and then discover similarities and differences. The third step will summarize the information into one single image. To the system researchers will be able to use this data as a GPS, they will found, they will be able to find the Fountain of Youth and then they will help keep our brains young. So and keep in mind that music is the Fountain of Youth. Thank you. {Applause} {Scott Weber speaking}Thank You Antonella. Our next presenter is Mohammed Atif Afzal and his "Accelerated Discovery of High-Performance Materials", his major advisor is Johannes Hachmann in the department of chemical and biological engineering. He loves tennis, puns, and not to be outdone, also speaks four languages. So ready set pitch. Let's consider a scenario, let's take two cups one made out of plastic material and another made of a glass material and drop them both on a hard floor. What happens? Of course the glass material breaks and the plastic material remains intact. You're probably imagining what if we our phone is made up of complete plastic materials, you will never have to see something like that. Well the problem is the current existing plastic materials do not have sufficient properties to be used in such devices. In my research I am designing new plastic materials so that that our phones never break. One interesting thing about plastics is that the molecules that can make plastic materials is basically infinite. That means there exists a combination of atoms that can make a plastic material with a targeted property, however it's a challenge to find the right combination of atoms in this huge molecular space. Therefore in my research I'm designing millions of potential molecules and then computationally evaluating them using an infrastructure which is built using complex calculations and all the calculations are performed on a supercomputer. Now we have calc values of millions of molecules and we have large amounts of data. We can look at the data and understand what's going on with the molecules and how the molecules are behaving but a human brain can only look at few molecules and maybe design a new material based on intuition, which is what scientists have been doing in the past, but finding patterns in millions of data is quite not feasible. Let's consider a classic example of a needle in a haystack it's nearly impossible to find the needle with our bare hands we're but we can accelerate the process of finding the needle by creating robots and teaching them to find the needle for us. In my research I'm using a very similar idea, I'm creating an ordered automated framework that can basically find the items of combination of atoms so that we can design the material with targeted property. We are we, I'm doing this by basically teaching the computers to learn from the available data which is called machine learning and the particular algorithm that I use is called neural networks, this is because it works very similar to how our brains are operating. Let me tell you that this technique is being used by tech giants such as Google, Microsoft ,and Facebook to do such as facial recognition and voice recognition. In my PhD thesis I'm extending these techniques so that I can discover the next generation of high performance materials so that our phones don't break and because I'm using plastic materials our phone can be flexible, lightweight and also cost-effective. Thank you {applause} {Scott speaking} Thank you Mohammed, our next presenter is Kristen Maki and her title is "Is a story worth a thousand numbers?" Her major advisor is Thomas Feely in the Department of Communications she's a map carrier apparently, a hockey player, and has a memorized chocolate chip recipe for chocolate chip cookies if you need that at the end of the presentation. Ready Set Pitch! In 1985, Lisa had to have a blood transfusion. She was worried because this was before transfusions were routinely screened for safety and HIV was on everybody's mind but she felt okay afterward and she's been pretty healthy since then, aside from feeling tired at times, but the last time she was at her doctors Lisa got tested for hepatitis C, which is a blood-borne virus that affects the liver. As it turns out lisa has hepatitis C and significant liver damage because she most likely contracted the virus from that transfusion more than 30 years ago. I'm telling you this because my dissertation research compares the effectiveness of narratives or stories that are similar to Lisa's with statistical information which is what's typically seen in health related messages. Prior research suggests that narratives may be one effective way of conveying this type of information one reason is because narratives tend to be more easily comparative with our own lives. What, as you can see, a lot of health messages still rely on numbers to make an impact. I'll give you another example related to this. so adults who were born between 1945 and 1965 are 5 times more likely to have hepatitis C than other adults. Also those who were born between those years as you can see make up 75% of the people who have hepatitis C and the CDC estimates that of all the people who have this virus, up to 75 percent of them don't know, because they haven't been tested. As you can see these numbers can help show you what a big problem something i,s but on the other hand they can hard, be hard, to make sense of especially if the same number repeats for different things like 75 percent. It can also be hard for people to relate to those, so to account for this, my research includes a narrative like Lisa's story along with statistical information like I told you but it also includes a third format that pairs both of these together. So for instance after hearing that people in her age group are 5 times more likely to have hepatitis C than other adults Lisa decided to get tested for this blood-borne virus. I'll let you fill in the rest but as you can see this kind of lets you have the best of both worlds and at the end of the day this might be the most effective way to convey this type of information. So the implications from this research are really exciting because they could help influence future message design and in turn help people like Lisa to change their story. Thank you {applause} {Scott speaking} Thank You Kristen. Our next presenter is Nadav Weinstock. His title is "Understanding Krabbe Disease", his faculty adviser is Laura Feltri in the department of medicine and biomedical sciences he, I don't know the circumstances, but apparently broke both his arms when he was a child at the same time, loves squash, the sport not the vegetable, which I think is awesome and hopes to travel to outer space sometime in the future. So Ready Set Pitch! Parents love for their child is powerful that love is limitless and unconditional and if a child gets sick a parent's love perseveres. It's that love that encourages me to become a pediatrician and join in the worldwide effort to cure childhood disease. I study Krabbe disease, a devastating neurological disease that affects babies. Some of you may have heard of Krabbe  disease from local Hall of Fame quarterback Jim Kelly and his son Hunter. When Hunter was just three months old, he was diagnosed with Krabbe and doctors told the Kelly family there was nothing they could do.  Hunter fought bravely like all children with Krabbe but ultimately passed from his disease. Today more than twenty years after Hunter's diagnosis, not much has changed in the field. There's still no cure for children with Krabbe and there exists a fundamental gap of knowledge regarding what causes the disease and why our treatments aren't working. To help you understand Krabbe I want you to imagine your own life if the garbage man never showed up. Garbage would accumulate, first in the kitchen, then in the living room, then the whole neighborhood. Something very similar happens in Krabbe. Patients are missing an enzyme and without an that enzyme cellular waste accumulates causing disease. The problem is we don't know where that toxic waste is coming from and if we don't know where the problem starts how can we fix it? My research project focuses on answering that question by using a series of cutting-edge genetic tools that my mentor and I helped create. we're now able to pinpoint precisely where their toxic waste is coming from. Shortly after starting our experiments we made a meaningful discovery we found that one of the cells that contributes to this disease is a cell type known as Schwann. So interestingly we found that Schwann cells can cause disease even when the surrounding cells are healthy this last point is important. It contradicts what we thought we knew about the disease for years, we thought that any sick cell could be helped by a healthy donor, so that was the basis of our treatment options, Children would receive bone-marrow transplants from healthy donors. Our data not only suggests that Schwann cells may contribute to the disease but also may explain why our therapies aren't curative and with this information we can design better therapies that target the underlying problem. Every year I meet dozens of families with children affected by Krabbe, their lives were turned upside down overnight. One moment they had a healthy child with their whole life ahead of them then the diagnosis came and their lives have changed forever, but the story doesn't have to end here with our reacher, with our research, we're closer to finding a cure than ever before. Thank you [Applause] {Scott Weber speaking} Thank you Nadav. Our next presenter is Saeede Eftekhari and her title is "Less pain lower cost by health information sharing. Her faculty advisor is professor Ram Ramesh in the department of management science and systems. She's fulfilled a childhood dream by visiting Niagara Falls and loves Wegmans and art museums I love the juxtaposition. Ready Set Pitch Hello everybody, imagine that you don't feel well today you go to see a doctor and the doctor simply orders a blood test to decide about your medical condition. You may say wait a moment I took that test recently I don't want to take it again but you know, if the results of your previous test is not available, you have to take it again. Can you guess how many of the medical services are unnecessary and just because of the missing information? It's a lot, in the United States it's almost 30 percent of the healthcare annual cost. These repetitions of course are risky and costly for the patient and costly for the healthcare system to overcome. This issue a managerial program called health information exchanges has been implemented in the US healthcare system since 2008. How does this program work? In this program all patient's medical information, from any point of care, such as insurance information, lab test results, physician records, hospital records and prescription information are securely saved as electronic medical records. When a patient is visiting a doctor, given the patient consent, the doctor can access the patient's medical information whenever it's needed. What are then the benefits of this program? Here is where my research begins. This information sharing program helps doctors to make more informed decision about the patient condition, diagnose better and perform less repetition of medical procedures for their patient. In my research, by analyzing the data on more than 3000 physicians, I found that physicians who use this program perform less duplication of medical procedures. When patient is in the office, we found that this information sharing program leads to delivering more efficient health care services by medical providers and most importantly this program leads to less pain, less risk and lower cost for the patient. Thank you very much. {applause} {Scott speaking} Thank you Saeede. Our next presenter is Peter Bloomingdale. Peter's title is "Networks, nerves and cures". His major advisor is Donald Major in the department of pharmaceutical sciences.  Apparently he cooks great Indian food, and is a challenge shoe shopper and has not been into the Harry Potter. I don't know where that's going but we're gonna let him play that out. So Ready Set Pitch. When I began my PhD I always envisioned curing a disease, initially I want to cure cancer, high hopes I know, but after reading about cancer and the different treatment options that are available I became interested in the adverse effects of chemotherapy. My research focuses on one of these chemotherapy: induced peripheral neuropathy. Chemotherapy is the use of toxic chemicals to kill cancer, however this is essentially a poison. When this poison enters our body it distributes everywhere and damages everything in its path. When it distributes to our peripheral nervous system it causes nerve damage known as peripheral neuropathy. Patients that develop peripheral neuropathy will feel a numbness and tingling sensation in their hands feet that travels across their body, now the problem is, is that this will turn into an extreme pain. The goal of my research is to prevent this pain, to prevent peripheral neuropathy from occurring and to do so I built a biological network of our nerve cells. To give you an analogy, I'll use a network that we're all familiar with Facebook, the largest social network. Here dots represent people, connections between these dots are people, our friends, it's very similar in a biological network except for the dots, are genes and proteins inside the cell and the connections between these dots are how these genes and proteins interact with each other. Now if we take everyone who's on Facebook and looked at their physical location in the world what would we see? We would see something that looks exactly like this {map of the world showing Facebook users} it's pretty amazing right? Upon zooming in you would notice that people are clustered together in cities. In a network theory these clusters are termed motifs, now motifs are important and very interesting because they relate to function. Now if you looked at New York City you'd see people clustered around there that form a motif, it's functions related to the economy, it's the economic powerhouse of the United States whereas in biology genes and proteins clustered together to form these motifs such as the mitochondria which relates to energy production, the energy powerhouse of the cell. So for my research, what I've done is I've analyzed the motifs in this network of our nerve cells, I then looked at healthy nerve cells compared to nerve cells that have been damaged by chemotherapy and interestingly I identified two motifs that become damaged. One is our mitochondria and the other involves our immune system. This network based approach has allowed me to identify a novel drug to prevent nerve damage in pain associated with chemotherapy, potentially curing peripheral neuropathy. I'm currently testing this treatment in mice and hopefully one day I'll be able to try this in humans [Applause] {Scott speaking} Thank you Peter our next presenter is Danielle Twum, her title is "Switch cancer off" Her major advisor is Scott Abrams in the department of microbiology and immunology.  She believes that sushi is the essential I think element for graduate persistence, as are pound cakes and podcasts. Double P's. Ready Set Pitch! What if you could switch cancer off? In order to do this you would have to employ the greatest army alive, our immune systems. This is because in this army there are soldier cells called macrophages that can be trained to wage war on parasites or to keep peace. This ability of macrophages to switch between these two sides is possible to do to the manipulation of internal switches called transcription factors. During illness you want macrophages to wage war not keep peace yet in cancer this is not so. Why does this happen? We think that even though the immune system sends war waging macrophages to the cancer, through some seduction routine their switches get jimmied, resulting in the cancer spreading which is what kills most patients. So how do we interrupt the seduction routine? Go for the world waging switches of course. I study one of such war wagons which is called interferon regulation factor 8 or IRF8 IRF8 is critical in the arsenal for war waging macrophages so we ask the question what if we switched IRF8 on and kept it on and I'm talking about very, very high levels on flaming bright. To do this we created a mouse where IRF8 was switched on in the macrophages all the time, versus a mouse where IRF8 was switched off completely in the macrophages and then we asked does the cancer spread more or does it spread less? As you can see from here {shows graphic of two mice} when the IRF8 switch is off the cancer spreads from the breast to the lungs significantly resulting in this sad mouse that eventually dies.  Gowever when IRF8 is turned on and kept on to very, very high levels the cancer spreads less from the breast to the lungs resulting in this happy mouse and this mouse surviving. What does this mean for the patient? It gives us a target, it gives us something, a starting point where we can start to intervene with therapy that will eliminate over treatment of patients. It gives us something tangible then we can finally use to switch cancer off. Thank you {applause} {Scott Weber speaking} Thank You Danielle. Our next presenter is Xiaonan Tai Her title is "Where do trees die?" her advisor is Scott Makai in the Department of Geography, loves chicken wings and to balance that loves to hike and bike along the Niagara River.  Ready Set Pitch! Our forests are dying, this recent warming and reduced rainfall are killing trees. Without sufficient water trees could not function properly and are more likely to be affected by disease, insects, and eventually die, but questions remain about where do they die and why do trees die? Randomly by chance or if there's a reason behind. That is the central question of my dissertation. Now let's take a look at this bird view photo taken by flying a drone over my study area in the state of Wyoming. We can see that some trees fell apart after they died and create this open ground and some trees are close to death with their canopy turning gray or brown and the other trees remain green and happy. Notice the spots where the cluster with dead trees that patterns suggest that trees do not die randomly, there is a reason behind. What could be causing? What could be the underlying factors? I find a number of things soil types, plant differences in micro topography, that is the subtle fluctuation of land surface. Imagine the winter rains, some local depressions tend to collect water and remain wet for a longer time while others become dry pretty fast, some soils can hold more water and some plant may grow deep roots allowing them to access additional water. In order to understand how those factors combine to influence the amount of water that a tree can get we need to know the movement of water laterally across the landscape and vertically from soil to plant. How do I deal with this complexity? As a geographer I was trained to integrate multiple disciplines by relying on knowledge from geology, soil physics and plant biology. I built a computer model that can capture those factors and predict the water uptake by every individual tree across the landscape. This model will be combined with sophisticated observations of soils and plants to help us understand the pattern of mortality that we see here. Ultimately my research will predict locations with vulnerable trees in a changing environment and help us better protect our forests which is so critical for all the lives on earth thank you. [Applause] {Scott Weber speaking} Thank You Xianoan. Our next presenter is Hooman Ansari whose title is "Pacemaker energy harvester". His advisor is Dr. Amin Karami in the department of mechanical and aerospace engineering. He loves turtles or maybe he only likes him I don't know, he used to play table tennis professionally I got to find out more about that he's cracked his head three times. So With that all said Ready Set Pitch! Hi everyone today I'm going talk about energy harvesting for pacemakers, but before I start I'm going ask you two questions. So by a raise of hand how many of you know what pacemaker is or have some idea what pacemakers do? {looks around room} Okay and the second question is how many of you have pacemakers or know somebody who uses pacemaker in their body? {pans audience} Cool okay so for those of you who might not be familiar with the subject, pacemaker is a device implantable biomedical device that is implanted inside the body of the patients who have heart problems, such as a arrythmia it helps them to have a better life. About 3 million people worldwide, they use pacemakers and 600,000 surgeries are done each year for placing new pacemaker inside the body of the patients. From this number about 1/3, which is 200,000 surgeries, is for replacing the old pacemakers and now you might wonder why such a sophisticated device needs replacing and the answer is with their battery, like any other device that depends on battery after a while the battery dies out and the patient needs to do a surgery. This time varies from 7 to 12 years depending on the activity of the patient and the age of the patient. The surgery, the new surgery is costly and also has its own risk. The cost of the surgery is between $20,000 to 90,000 and also the risks are associated with the surgery includes heart infection which is a serious problem for old people. So now the solution that I've been looking into for the last three years for my PhD is an energy harvester. Our energy harvester is going to replace the battery inside. The pacemaker is gonna get the vibration from the heart and convert to the electricity needed for the pacemaker so by doing so the pace the patient doesn't need to do a new surgery since our, what is self charging, our device is small and also is MRI compatible which means that the patient can do MRI while has this device inside the body. During my PhD time I published several journal papers and conference papers and our team has two patents on these subjects. Last summer, with the collaboration of University of Michigan, we did the first animal test on the energy harvester while we attach the energy reserve to a heart of a sheep and hopefully in the future, near future, we're going to have our energy harvester inside the commercial pacemakers in the market. Thank you guys for listening. {Scott Weber speaking} Thank you Hooman.  Our next presenter and our last presenter is Van Anh (Vika) Nguyen, her title is "Clipping wires inside a biological bomb: targeting cancers weak links" Her advisor is Donald Major from the department of pharmaceutical sciences. She's a relentless sampler of ethnic food, she is, was born in Russia I think and enjoys computer programming, psychology and fashion Ready Set Pitch. Imagine yourself being strapped to a time bomb like the one you see in the picture on the left, you know that you have to cut certain wires to stop this bomb from exploding and you know that if you do them in a wrong order or touch the wrong wires the clock might start ticking a little faster. What are you going to do? Fortunately I don't deal with explosions but my research pertains to something equally complex and scary, a biological bomb called cancer. I wish I could find a cure for cancer but over the time scientists realized the one solution fits all approach really does not exist for cancer, just like you don't expect to find one perfect way to defuse every single bomb out there. You shouldn't expect to find one magic therapy that will work for every cancer type or even subtype. So does it mean that we should all just give up? Absolutely not! It means that every cancer requires a tailored approach, but I believe that the more you know about your enemy the more likely you are to win the war, what I'm saying is that you want if you want to find the best treatment strategy for your cancer of interest you want to start by collecting all available information about the processes or wires that drive the functioning of your cancer cell. My work is focused on non-Hodgkins lymphoma, which is a blood cancer. I'm interested in knowing why patients with different subtypes of the disease do not respond in the same manner if given the same treatment. My analysis points out that the differences we observe could be partly explained by the way the subtypes are wired which changes altogether how we should treat them, but first I need to know the structure of those biological bombs and what they made of, so I put together puzzle or what we call a network that paints a comprehensive picture of what's happening inside the former cell, very much like the diagram on the right. This picture would be slightly different depending on which genetic alteration were introduced in each subtype, that causes a normal cell to turn to a  cancer cell. Therefore the most appropriate drug treatments for each sub type will also be different and we can determine that by applying techniques that are based on mathematics and biology, however identifying the most promising wires to clip is no longer enough.  Cancer therapy has become increasingly complicated due to understanding that more often than not patients require a multi drug regimen to overcome the devastating disease, we need to know which combinations of wires will merely slow down the clock and which one can actually terminate the bomb. This is where mathematical modeling comes into place, it allow us to predict what when and just how much to give to patients before we go into clinical trials. Doing so can significantly cut down the time that it takes to develop successful therapies that can save lives of thousands of patients. So we've come a long way in understanding, in battling cancer, and we still have a lot of work ahead of us but I'm confident that we will get there one wire at a time. Thank you. {applause} {Scott Weber speaking} thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen we have just enjoyed 15 incredible presentations and I am sure you enjoyed them as much as I did, let's give another round of applause to all of our presenters, our judges are working on their last evaluation and when they're done that it we're going to allow them to step out of the room, and you can do that whenever you're ready, so they can begin their deliberations and I think they're gonna have a tough job. I would point out that we've retained Price Waterhouse to help with the, {laughter} sorry just popped up you know, but while they're doing their fine work and tough work, remember what we said at the beginning of this presentation an event, that we said that you as the audience you're going to have a chance to be a judge as well, so I think what we're gonna do is we're giving you time to get your devices out, turn them on now, it's appropriate and pull them up and pretty soon I'm going to give you a signal when you have about three minutes. We'll open the voting for about three minutes, the web addresses, as you've seen up there I'm not going to try to spell it out for you. And are everybody ready to vote? So you have time, I don't want to start too soon, I don't hear any objections so I think we have to say Ready Set Vote! The voting is closed! Ladies and gentlemen just a few thoughts that I was collecting as we went along, we had five schools or colleges represented today from the University which is terrific, we had ten countries, represented in four continents represented in our in our pitch participants today, which really does speak to the global nature of the University of Buffalo. well the judges need a little bit more time than you did for your voting, so we have a brief interlude to provide a little entertainment before the award presentations and please do stay, I'm sure you will but for our entertainment while the panel deliberates it's my pleasure to introduce UB's own Buffalo Chips, so please give them a warm welcome as they come down to stage. [Applause] microphone [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] again with just one more take it so much to me [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] so our next song is going to be new shoes by Paolo Nutini [Music] to [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] the other [Music] [Music] take me water through these streets where bright lights and angels meet stone the stone [Music] [Music] [Music] don't just use somewhere in my brand-new shoe so next up we have the song Valentine by trade this was debuted at our Valentine's Day annual concert yeah Eric and we saw like inside [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] never gonna tell [Applause] [Music] somewhere we gonna realize [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Applause] okay so next up we have our [Music] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] I wonder [Music] [Applause] [Music] around [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] we thank you guys so much for having us [Applause] fantastic fantastic was it tough excellent at this time it's my great pleasure to welcome Provost Akatsuki to the stage to provide some closing remarks to the awards presentation Wow what an afternoon's entertainment all right both listening to our pitches and listening to the music this is what research university is all about it's an afternoon's stimulation as we move forward to advance knowledge and change the world here at UB we really are a research university we value the scholarship that we put forward and we change the world with the scholarship that we do we train the next generation of professionals and leaders through the PhD programs that we offer and the way we communicate our research is becoming of growing significance importance to us that this the outside world looks at universities now and they'll say to us quite often that uh you know it's just academic and when they say it's an academic problem we're being dismissed meaning that the work that we do isn't important but the work we do is vitally important to the directions that the nation is going that the way New York State is going where Buffalo is going the work we do does have impact and I think one of the reasons why we're dismissed with oh it's just academic is that we haven't spent enough time thinking about the way we communicate our research why we do it how we do it and what the impact it has is and that's what this three minute thesis competition is all about is to learn how to communicate the research that we do in a way that the general audience can understand it and can appreciate the value of the research that we do so I thought that pitches were simply fabulous and I thought the fella singing was grand so what I'd like to do now is to thank Scott Weber who was our fabulous emcee thank all of our pitchers over there that took the time to prepare the 3-minute pitches for us and give them to us and our panel and who are now going to we're going to hear the news of who's going to win the three-minute pitch competition and I'll turn it over to Graham who will take us to the end so thank you all very much [Applause] I'm very excited to find out who the winners are exactly no envelope mistakes or anything okay before I announce the winners I know everybody's eager I also want to invite everyone to a reception in the atrium immediately after the People's Choice Award is announced so the third place winner is human asari pacemaker energy harvester [Applause] some of you may not catch the reference but I feel like Ed McMahon the second-place winner is Danielle tuam switch cancer off [Applause] first place winner $1,000 is Phil Schneider test phantom fingers for higher biometric security [Applause] finally finally People's Choice Syed F takari less pain lower costs by health information sharing [Music] if the winners could remain on the stage for just a moment and everyone else please join me in the reception in the atrium for the reception and one more round of applause for the participants and for the judges [Applause] [Music] 