 Good afternoon, welcome to Michigan State Meetups. We're gonna be discussing the Honors College today. We're so happy that you're with us this afternoon. My name is Adam Davis. I am the Admissions Counselor here in the Office of Admissions, so I will be facilitating the presentation today, but you're actually gonna be hearing from an expert within the college, within the Honors College, by the name of Charles Cotton. We are excited that you're here today. We're gonna make sure that you have all the information that you need when it comes to the Honors College, and also make sure that any of your questions are answered. I want to take a second to introduce Mr. Charles Cotton, he is going to be the individual who works in the office of the Honors College, but specifically works for admissions. So he's gonna actually be running through the PowerPoint with you and will make sure you know everything you need to know about the Honors College, so I'd like to introduce Mr. Charles Cotton. All right, well, thanks for joining us today. One of the things I always like to chat about before I begin rambling about all the different benefits of the Honors College is I always like to start off by talking about what the Honors College isn't. What we aren't is we are not an addition to college. What I mean by that is we don't tell students, "Hey, come to Michigan State, study whatever it is that brought you here, whether that was a Human Biology degree, or a Music degree, or History degree. And by the way, while you're doing that particular thing, do all this other random stuff that has nothing to do with your academic area of interest." We don't tell students, "Come to Michigan State, study that major, but by the way, you need to do 400 hours of community service. You're required to take a leadership development course, or you have to take three years of a particular foreign language." The reason we don't function in that sort of format is because what we know results from doing that is that we actually eat up more of your space, so we actually operate the complete opposite of that. Instead, what we do in the Honors College, is our biggest goal is to figure out how Michigan State and through the Honors College at Michigan State, we can help you shape your lives. Primarily how we operate is off of flexibility. We're a hub for flexibility. So if you forget everything else I ramble to you about today, the main thing I would want you to remember is that pretty much the Honors College equals yes. If you ask that question of, "Hey, can I be in one of those residential colleges at Michigan State? Can I major in this thing? Can I study abroad and double major in these two particular different things? Can I do that stuff and be in the Honors College?"The answer to those questions is always yes. The Honors College doesn't make anything that you would want to do academically more difficult, but actually, we free up some space to make those things a little bit easier for you to do, if that makes any sort of sense. So how we go about doing this is primarily by providing a lot more opportunities of flexibility within your realm of academics. All students at Michigan State have to take general education courses, for example. At MSU, we traditionally call those general education courses Integrative Studies Classes, which are pretty much an introductory to courses of natural science, social science, humanities, writing. As a member of the Honors College, you don't actually have to take any of those Integrative Studies courses at all, but instead we allow our Honors College students to pick from anything that's available at the university in those different areas. An example of that might be maybe you decided to come to Michigan State and you are studying Spanish as a formal major, but maybe you always had an inkling in the back of your mind that you could be a great psychologist. Maybe when you're exploring some of the psychology curriculum, you realize that Intro to Psychology doesn't really seem like it's that class that's gonna answer that question for me, but Cognitive Psychology seems pretty interesting. It seems as though if I could take this course, I might be able to figure out if this is something I actually want to do. Well, a traditional student might see that in order to take that particular class, that it wouldn't count maybe for a general education course for them, whereas if you remember the Honors College, we might be able to allow it to do so. Another benefit to the Honors College is that Honors College students get to bypass most prerequisites that are in place, so anything that doesn't follow a required linear pattern. In this particular example, a student might also see that in order to take that Cognitive Psychology course, maybe they also have to take Intro to Psych. Maybe they also need to take a statistics class, maybe they also have to be a sophomore. These might be a few too many barriers for you all to jump through just to take this particular course, one class that you're interested in. As a member of the Honors College, you likely can go right into that class just by simply meeting with your Honors College advisor. What they're going to be helping you do is to make sure that you aren't bypassing any sort of prerequisite that would actually be necessary for you to be successful in that class. An example of where a student wouldn't traditionally bypass a prerequisite might be mathematics, right? You wouldn't take Calculus 3 without taking Calculus 2. I have no idea why somebody would want to try to do something like that, but that would be that sort of exception to that rule. Another major benefit for Honors College students is the opportunity to dabble in graduate coursework. One of the things that we found is that a lot of our Honors College students are interested in pursuing some sort of advanced degree, whether it's directly after finishing a bachelors degree, or maybe after going to work in the industry for a couple years. What we found is that our students really like this benefit. We allow Honors College students to take up to nine graduate credits at the undergraduate tuition rate, meaning you don't pay an extra penny more than what you'll be paying for a traditional upperclassman rate course while at Michigan State.Nine credits, on average, is roughly a semester of most masters programs. One of the benefits of this is that these graduate courses are real graduate courses with actual graduate faculty members and other graduate students in that class, so there's no special exam that you have to take at the end of the semester to count it as a actual graduate course when you start your masters, like those AP or [IB 00:06:04] classes might have for you. But a benefit that might be somewhat similar is if taking these graduate courses while working on your bachelors degree would allow you to demystify graduate school the same way that advanced coursework in high school allows you to demystify the undergraduate work level a little bit, so a lot of different benefits available for you there. We have students in the Honors College who start dabbling in graduate coursework as early as their sophomore year in undergrad, right? Once again, you can go to your Honors College advisor and get a sense of how soon or when you might be ready to take some of those particular courses if that's something that interests you. Another benefit of the Honors College is Honors coursework, so some of you today might even be on the fence between going to a big school or a small school. The nice thing about being a member of the Honors College is that we try to figure out ways to make MSU whatever you need it to be, whether that's making it a more intimate community in your academic classes. We have ways for you to do that through Honors courses. We offer between 160 and 180 Honors courses each year, and I always say that there's two pretty clear benefits of Honors courses, and one is that Honors classes are traditionally a much, much smaller than maybe a traditional section they're replacing. For instance, Intro to Chemistry at Michigan State might have close to 300 students in that section, whereas the Honors section of Chemistry will for sure have under 50 students, maybe 35 or 40 students in that class, so much smaller than a traditional offering. Another major benefit of formal Honors courses is that they're great for students between classes, where you might come in to Michigan State maybe with some AP credit or IB credit, or maybe you took an Honors section of Chemistry in high school, and your advisor's gonna ask you, "Well, do you want to take Intro to Chemistry again, or do you want to jump straight into Organic Chemistry?" Maybe you're on the fence about whether or not you really feel prepared enough to jump into that next level of Chemistry, and maybe that Honors section of Chemistry is the ideal fit because it will kind of place itself in between those two sections. Or, maybe you're confident that you can take Organic Chemistry, but maybe you want to take that in the smaller atmosphere, whereas you feel as though you might have a little bit more academic support. So maybe taking an Honors section of Organic Chemistry is actually the right fit for you, so a lot of flexibility there. Honors college students also have the opportunity to dabble in what we call Honors Options, which is a very popular opportunity for students in the Honors College. Honors Options is the ability to turn any non Honors course into an Honors course simply by forming some form of a contract with that faculty member in that class about some level of additional work that you're interested in exploring. What that might look like is that maybe you are taking a personal finance class, but you are actually interested in also learning a little bit about nonprofit management before you graduated, and you found out this faculty member has an economics background. So maybe you decide to do an independent research project with that faculty member the first month of the semester on that particular topic about nonprofit management, and then continue on the rest of the year like everybody else. Or, maybe you were interested in getting involved in some form of community service at a nonprofit organization and wanted to pair that with that particular class. There's really no limitation to what Honors Options can be, nobody really dictates those to you, but it's something that's just like a completely optional opportunity for you to craft out in a traditional class at Michigan State, how to get something more from it that you're really hoping to learn about. A lot of academic flexibility, right? We have thousands of courses at Michigan State, so I always say that with all of this opportunity to substitute out general education courses, to bypass prerequisites, to dabble in all this different curricula, that can be quite overwhelming if you don't have some form of support to help you navigate that. All students in the Honors College are gonna have an Honors College advisor, in addition to an Honors departmental advisor in the college of whatever your major is housed in, okay? So your general Honors College advisor is your go-to person for a bigger question of what do you hope to accomplish before you graduate? This is that person who really wants to know what are the things inside of the classroom and outside of the classroom that you're interested in exploring in whatever time allotment that you've set for yourself for your bachelors. They want to know if you might want to double major, triple major while you're here. If you might want to get involved with three different internships, or join a fraternity, or sorority, or if you found three or four different clubs and student organizations you want to get involved in. They want to know if you might want to take advantage of dabbling at some graduate education while you're here. The reason they're going to ask you all these different questions is because they want to make sure that you're doing the best to maximize those opportunities. They want to be able to make sure they can let you know, hey, you don't actually need to take this particular course. If you're planning to do this, we could substitute this other class in that'll allow you to double dip in two particular areas, but they can help comb and craft out the ideal program for you which is nice to know. In addition to some of those traditional classroom opportunities, we also have some additional opportunities for students to get involved in undergraduate research. One of the options that you'll see on the screen here is called our professorial assistantship, which is an opportunity for Honors College students to do paid research their freshman or sophomore year and pretty much anything that student wants to do research in, which is quite nice. In order to be eligible for this though you have to have a 1500 on the SAT, or a 33, on the ACT or you would need to be a National Merit semi-finalist in addition to being invited to the Honors College. If for some reason, you're super interested in undergraduate research but you don't happen to have any of those particular test scores, we do offer what we call honors research seminars for students during their first year and second who are members of the Honors College. This is a very similar opportunity to get involved in undergraduate research under the umbrella of a particular academic topic. But instead of getting paid for this work, your actually get academic credit, so that's what the trade off looks like in that particular instance. In addition to that, international engagement is very big at Michigan State in general, and then it's also something that we really value here in the Honors College. So not only might you be eligible to participate in particular study abroad programs through your college, which might relate directly to your major, but you might find that your really want to go to a particular country and maybe your academic major doesn't have a program that runs to that place, but you found something. As a member of the Honors College, once again, this might a particular way that we could count that study abroad program for some general education credits for you where you could still make a little bit more sense of why this is beneficial to you outside of just that experience from that particular country. In addition to that, maybe that study abroad program goes in Antarctica. Maybe you're a zoology major and not an environmental studies or environmental science major, but you want to figure out how to do some form of zoology research while you're in Antarctica for a few weeks. What's nice is that you can do Honors Options on study abroad programs as well. We had a student last year who went to Antarctica as a zoology major and actual did research on penguins while she was there. So she was able to maximize not only getting some additional natural science credits for going on that program, but she was also able to get some additional benefits that look amazing on her resume when she goes to apply for graduate programs in the near future. Service learning is something that's pretty big in the Honors College. What we want to make sure that's available for students is that if you have something that you've been involved in in high school that you might want to continue at the collegiate level that there's ways for you to connect that work that you're doing outside of the classroom back to academic [inaudible 00:13:50]. There what we call Honors Service options, which is an opportunity in a particular course to combine that work that you're doing outside of the classroom with the work in the classroom, connecting with that faculty member in order to bridge that sort of curricular gap that lies there. So in addition to all of those things, there some other fun stuff that we do within our Honors College community. So not only do we have several of our own clubs and organizations for our Honors College students, but we also have optional housing for Honors College students as well, eight floors and a whole bunch of different residence halls spread out throughout campus. In addition to that, we have honor suites in Wilson Hall, which is a hub for a lot of our first year engineering students. So initially, it was was broken up into a neighborhoods [inaudible 00:14:34]. I'm not sure how many of you all may be have been to a formal general MSU presentation or program, but what's nice about our residential structure or setup is that we have five different residential where you know that within a five minute walk of the building that you live in you're going to have a nurse available to you. You're going to have multiple dining halls available to you. You're going to have tutoring pretty much around the clock. You're going to have opportunities to go to [inaudible 00:14:58] convenience stores, and that advisors are going to come visit you in that space, and study abroad advisors are going to come over that way. But in addition to that as an Honors College student, you know that there's going to be an Honors community embedded within those areas as well. So about 50% of our students elect to live on Honors floors. The other half don't for whatever particular reason, and this is not a requirement at all. Often students ask what's the main benefit to living on the Honors floors and what I typically tell them is that the primary benefit to living on those Honors floors is this allows you to be in an environment surrounded by other students who have that same sort of flexibility that you do. Otherwise, it might be quite difficult to identify other Honors College students. You're not required to walk around with Honors College sweatshirt on every day. So knowing that these students all live in a particular environment is kind of nice to be able to go hang out on that floor and find out about an awesome study abroad program that you could go on as a freshman that maybe is traditionally reserved for upperclassmen or graduate students, so those flexibilities play out in our Honors community. In addition to that, we have honors RAs, resident assistants, on those floors. So these are traditionally upperclassmen students who are also in the Honors College who serve as that key mentor on that floor to make sure you might be attuned to some of the Honors college programming that we're doing in our main building and other resources that you might be interested in. So what does all this mean? You might say, "Charles, some of this stuff sounds like fun. Some of it sounds like more work, and why would I want to do more work when I get to college?" You might say I have an aunt and an uncle. They both went to college, and my uncle studied engineering. I'm pretty sure he barely graduated from some of the stories that he told us. He did nothing extra when he was in college and he got a great job, so why would I want to do all those additional things?" What we often tell students is the reason that Honors College students really appreciate the Honors experience thts they were able to culminate amongst the four years traditionally that their here is that they see those results after graduating. On a given year between 50 and 65% of our Honors College students elect to go directly off to graduate school after finishing their bachelors degree. Our students are not only getting into graduate programs, but they're going to some of the top ranked programs in their academic area of interest. In addition to that, a lot of our students are finding academic funding for those masters and PhD programs because of that unrivaled level of undergraduate research that they've been able to involve themselves in, that unrivaled approach to opportunities outside of the classroom, whether that be internships or other volunteerism. Other students who don't like to go to graduate school, we have about a 97% placement rate within career field of interest in about six months after graduating. So again, that's something else that's kind of nice to know. So in addition to all that, we have some opportunities for students to obtain some scholarships if you're admitted to the Honors College. One of the things you'll see listed there is our alumni distinguished scholarship competition, which takes place traditionally in the last Friday and Saturday in January and also the first Friday and Saturday in February. This is an opportunity for students to come to campus for a full day on Friday, get probably one of the best visit programs that we offer at the university where you get a inside look at Michigan State, where you get to meet with faculty members and students from all different academic disciplines and ask them whatever questions that you all might have. But in addition to that, you get to compete for a full ride scholarship, full tuition scholarship, and about 120 other different awards that are available to students who come and participate in this competition. So then you might say, "Well, Charles, how does one go about joining the Honors College?" And we try to make this process as seamless as possible. Simply by submitting your application to Michigan State, you've also submitted an application for admission to the Honors College. So we don't have a separate application on the front end. What's nice about that though is it requires a little less work from you all. So if you're doing great things in high school right now, there's nothing additional that you'll need to do to indicate interest in the Honors college. There's not check box on the application that you need to be marking off. But the bitter portion to that is your wouldn't find out about your Honors College invitation at the same time that you found out you're admitted to university. We don't get your application materials until after you've been admitted to Michigan State, so it typically takes about six to eight weeks from that date before you would hear back from the Honors College with a decision if you were admitted. We also don't send a whole bunch of denial letters to students either. Since you didn't actually apply to the Honors College, it would be very rude if we told you you didn't get in to something you might not have even been interested in. But if you are interested in the Honors College, which I'm going to assume you all are and you haven't heard back in that six to eight week time frame, you simply just need to email our office or give our office a call and say, "Hey, still interested in the Honors College. It's been about six to eight weeks, and I haven't hear anything." At that point and time, we can let you know. Maybe we're a little bit backed up and your invitations in the mail or maybe there was something in your application that was a red flag where maybe your program wasn't quite as challenging as we was hoping for. So at that particular point in time, we might ask you to submit your first semester senior year grades in addition to maybe a short one to two page essay pretty much explaining why you're interested in the Honors College for us to then do a little bit more thorough of a review. So what you'll see on this Join Us slide are some averages. You'll see our average ACT score listed, which is a 32, our SAT, which is a 1420. There's some wiggle room to standardized test score, so don't fret if you have a test score that doesn't quite meet those averages. Your test score makes up about 15 to 20% of our review process. But about 65 to 70% of our Honors College review is actually based upon your academic program, and your grades, and your classes in comparison to what's available at your high school. So you all aren't competing against other people from your state, your home state. You're not competing against other students from your home high school. But instead you're actually just competing against the standard of what's available at your school. So if you go to a school with about 20 advanced placement courses or international baccalaureate courses or dual enrollment opportunities, then we're going to be looking for a decent chunk of that within your academic transcript. If you got to a school that doesn't offer any of those things that maybe just has Honors courses, we're obviously taking that into consideration when we're reviewing you for that rigor. So we're looking for students going above and beyond what that standard level of curriculum is at your school. The main reason we do this is because we offer a lot of opportunities at the Honors College. And a lot of those things are optional. We only ask students to complete eight honors experiences before they graduate, which is any of those different opportunities I explained earlier. But our big goal is to make sure that we're finding those students ... They're just not trying to make the minimum and their maximums. So with that, any of y'all who are seniors, hopefully you got your application in already. And if not, you'll want to get that in as soon as possible. After that time that you hear back from MSU welcoming you to our MSU community, MSU family, it's about a six to eight week timeframe, but you need wait before you hear back from the Honors College. After that, you would want to be coming back to campus for our scholarship competition. So with that, you'll see my contact information as well as our assistant deans contact information the slide. Please feel free to reach out to us whenever you all have some questions that might occur after our session today. But at this point and time, I do want to open it up to any questions that you all might have and Adam's going to swing back to join us as well. All right, so really good stuff. And it looks like we already have a question. So the first question is my son is accepted in engineering college, and he'd like to know what it takes to apply to be accepted to the Honors College if there is one for engineering. So yeah, that's a good question. So basically how the Honors College works is we are a big umbrella for the entire universe. The reason why this question is so important is because depending on what institutions you all are applying to for your undergraduate degree, you might find that some schools that they don't have an honors college, but instead, maybe they have honors programs that are housed within the different academic colleges at that school. So maybe they have a particular honors program just for engineering students or just for business students or just for music students, et cetera. Here our Honors College works for every academic program on campus. If anything, it's that glue that allows students to dabble in a whole bunch of different curriculum without feeling as though that that's going to be a little bit more challenging. There's nothing special as an engineering student that you'll have to do to be admissible to the Honors College. We actually have a big percentage of our Honors College student population who are engineers. Another one from Hannah. Do I have to commit to MSU to get invited to the Honors College? That's a great question. No, you do not. You obviously have to commit to MSU to be a part of the Honors College in the fall, but there's nothing that you need to do after you've received your invitation to MSU in order to be considered for the Honors College. With that also being said, if you get an invitation to the Honors College, you can most definitely accept that's right away if you know for a fact if you decide to come to MSU, you want to be a part of the Honors College. You don't have to wait. We obviously know if you decide to go study somewhere else for your four years that you're not planning to be a part of the Honors College here. I think this is a question that you probably get a lot. And then this one is from Kevin. If you're in the Honors College, can you room with people who are not in the Honors College? If so, where could you room together? I love that question. Yeah, good stuff. Good stuff. First part to that, Kevin, is of course. You most definitely can room with any other Michigan State University student, but if that student is not in the Honors College, then you wouldn't be able to live on the Honors floor with us. So this once again goes to why honors housing is completely optional. You wouldn't want a student to have to pick between the Honors College and not being in the Honors College simply because of some form or fashion regarding to housing. But what's nice is as an Honors College student, you're going to know where all of the Honors floors and Honors suites are located. So as a Honors College student, you can still hang out on those floors and still go to programming with students on that floor if you want to be a part of that living, learning community for the Honors College, but you don't have to live there if you are planning to live with somebody else not in the Honors College. Right. They're rolling in. So next question from Ryan. I was accepted into Lyman Briggs, and I was wondering if you can do both. Right. Yep, great question from Ryan. Once again, that nature of the Honors College ultimately equals yes. You most definitely could be a part of the Honors College and Lyman Briggs. We actually have an Honors floor in Holmes Hall. Which is where Lyman Briggs is located on campus. For our Honors College students who are a part of Briggs. So, you can literally major in anything that Michigan State University offers. You can double-major in anything that Michigan State University offers from the Honors College. and the Honors College isn't going to make that more difficult. But through that academic flexibility, it'll make it easier for you to do those things. How many students are in the Honors College? Yeah, we actually are a little over 4,000 students in the Honors College, which is about 10% of MSU's undergraduate student population. That equates to about an incoming first year class of about 640 students right out of high school. And if anybody's good with math, that obviously doesn't equal 4,000. So at the end of first semester on campus, we have what's called a campus admission process. So any student not invited to the Honors College directly out of high school who either didn't complete that appeal application I referenced earlier can also join the Honors College at the end of their first semester on campus simply by finishing within the top 10% of first year students in the college that your major is housed. So basically if you do well your first semester on campus, you're going to get an automatic invitation to the Honors College to start your second semester. All right. Sophia asked, "Could you talk a little bit more about this scholarship competition? How does it work exactly?" Yes, the questions on everyone's mind. How does that competition work? People love that. Good question, Sophia. As I referenced briefly, that full Friday is just a visit program where you're going to meet with us. I'll give you a breakdown of the schedule. In the morning, you're going to get some bigger presentations about the university, about the Honors college. You're going to hear from some current students presenting about what they think is unique and what some faculty members also think is unique. After that, you're going to have the opportunity to visit different academic colleges around campus and get a good insight for is that the ideal fit for you academically for your major. Then you're going to eat on campus a couple times. You're going to break bread with other perspective students from all across the country over dinners, as well as a whole bunch of our current Honors College students and then some more opportunities to mix and mingle with faculty and staff members in the evening. This program is also for your parents as well. Then Saturday morning you wake up very early and you're going to take the alumni distinguished scholarship exam. You cannot study for it. Don't attempt to study for it. I often tell students it's more of an interview than it is a test. So you really been preparing for it your entire lives. And that you do Saturday while your parents go through another program. All right. So Hannah wants to know if you do skip the prerequisites for a certain class, would the credits for the class still transfer to other colleges? Yes, that's a great question. So when you referenced if you skip a prerequisite for a certain class, are you then also saying ... Going to just try to just answer it in two ways. Like if you had taken the AP course or an IB course, and you decided, oh, I'm going to transfer those credits in, those would obviously count. But if you, for instance, decide, well, I don't want to take intro to chemistry because I don't have to and I decide to take organic chemistry, that's organic chemistry course that you actually take will count as credits for the academic program that you wouldn't get a credit for intro to chemistry if you hadn't taken the course if that makes sense at all. I think we covered this. If you weren't invited to the Honors College, can you get invited during your freshman year? Which you can. So the answer is yes. End of the first semester. Then do you have to come to all of the dates for the scholarship competition or just one? That's a great question. That's good to know actually. So no, you just have to pick one of the weekends. We just offer two back to back weekends because we know you all are busy folks and maybe you have some conflict with one of the other. Somebody else asked, "Are the slides to this presentation available somewhere?" If you email me, my email address is adavis, A-D-A-V-I-S, at msu.edu, I can get you the slides to this presentation because there's obviously a lot of great stuff in there. Got some more questions here. Are the 200 word responses reviewed for Honors College consideration or is it completely merit based? Yeah, great question. So yes, we do look at application in full Garrett when you apply to Michigan state and then for the Honors College. You do not need to try to tailor your 200 word responses in anyway, shape, or form towards the honors college, but we're going to use that one. We might see that there's some additional information we need to know about you beyond what we see from an academic program and test scores. Hannah's got another great question. What's the process of becoming an RA? Oh this is great. So another benefit to that scholarship competition is that we're going to have a resource fair for you in the evening on that Friday. We'll be bringing a whole bunch of campus resources to you all in a big reception room that we see that a lot of Honors College students either get involved in or that they would love to have Honors College students involved and residence life is one of those. So they're going to come and present and have students available to talk to you about specifically how to become an RA. But simple form and fashion is that there's going to be an interview process that's going to be advertised everywhere where you can apply to become an RA. So you're going to interview for that similar to the way you would interview for a job. And if you are hired, you're going to get a nice incentive, which is free room and board, and an iPad, and a whole bunch of other fun stuff. And you'll then have the opportunity to figure out where you might be placed, and as an Honors College student, would you like to get you place on an honors floors? All right, this is a good one from Justin. To attend the scholarship competition, do you actually have to be committed to Michigan State. So no, once again, you don't. So that's scholarship competition like I mentioned on Friday is a visit program. So this is an opportunity for us to realistically give you MSU in our most vulnerable state. We want you to see the nitty gritty of all these different academic departments so you can make a good sense to see if it's really going to be able to support you in the way that you want it to. So you don't have to make any decisions until that May 1st deadline. Great. Can you talk more about some of the requirements to graduate within the Honors College? Yep, so to graduate within the Honors College, there is three things that you have do. One, you have to complete eight honors experience. So a honors experience is maybe dabbling in graduate courses, maybe taking a form of honors class, maybe doing some honors options, but pretty much any combinations of those or just eight of one particular thing, doesn't really matter. So you need to complete at least eight of those. In addition to that, you need to maintain a 3.2 GPA while you're on campus. We don't find that too difficult for our Honors College students. The average student in the Honors College GPA is a little bit north of 3.7, so we don't find the students taper towards that. The reason we don't move that GPA threshold is we don't want you to be fearful of taking on opportunities that interest you. I wouldn't want you to come into my office saying, yeah, I totally wanted to take this graduate course last semester, but I decided not to because you're scared you might get a B in that class. The third requirement is that you have to submit a academic progress plan online every year. It takes about five to 10 minutes, but it's literally entering the classes that you plan to take this year and what your academic goals are still. It's only a requirement because if it wasn't people might forget to do it. All right. Hannah coming again. What extra things does an RA do? Yeah, resident assistants and this is a great question for multiple reasons. One, if you're interested in becoming an RA, but more importantly, as a first year student, it's awesome to know what your resident assistant on your floor is there for as you might want to better utilize them. So your resident assistant is an upperclassman with a lot of lived experiences and a lot of training about where academic resources are. So this a person that you can go to maybe if you're struggling in a class, and they'll know exactly where to send you and who you could working with to get some extra support there. That's the person you go to if you happen to have any sort of roommate troubles or roommate conflict. It's the person who's going to coordinate a whole bunch of fun social events for the students on that floor, maybe a group lunch once a month, maybe some visits to maybe a Broadway show on campus, but pretty flexible in nature what they do. But they're pretty much just the hub of that community center on that floor. All right. Here's a good one from Madeline. Does being in the Honors College help with major admissions, specifically within Broad, but obviously any major? So that's a great question too. So it's a double-sided answer. The answer is yes and no. The Honors College is going to give you more flexibility to make sure that you're tailoring your academic curriculum to whatever those needs are for you. So if you know that you're trying to get Eli Broad School of Business or another limited enrollment program, having that additional flexibility with what you can pick and choose from in your first couple years on campus is great because you can make sure that you're taking all the classes you need for Broad while still being able to dabble in other things that you just have another strong passion, which is nice. What about options for work study or maybe just other work opportunities on the campus as well? That's great. So MSU prides itself in knowing that we have more job opportunities on campus available to students, pretty much more than there are students. So if you want to work or find work on campus, you're not going to have any difficulty doing that, whether that's working in a particular academic departments office, working in our dining halls as maybe a supervisor at some point, working in the research labs. So it's pretty limitless where our students can work. So the Honors College in our weekly digest posts about some of those unique working experience. In fact, two members are looking for students to work in their particular offices, et cetera. All right. There's two questions, but they kind of go a little bit together. So this one's from Jackie and Garrett. So do the Honors College invitations come by email or do we have to check our accounts online? And then the second part. On average, how long after receiving an MSU acceptance letter will a perspective MSU student receive an Honors College invitation? Yeah. So Honors College invitations come by US mail, so not either email or your online account. So you will get that to your home address. So if you need to update that with the Office of Admission, you would want to call them to get your general address updated with the university. Those letters typically arrive six to eight weeks after you've been admitted to the university as a perspective student. So that kind of answers Garrett's question there too. All right, perfect. Okay, well that was a lot of great questions. You guys had some fantastic questions. We look forward to hearing from you again. We appreciate it and Go Green. Go White. 