 Now joining me right now on the live line is Michael Hackard. He is the author of a new book called The Wolf at the Door: Undue Influence and elderly - and not elderly - Elder Financial Abuse. He's on our live line right now. Hey, Michael thanks a lot for joining us today. Hi, Michael, thanks for having me. Absolutely. What got you writing about this? Well, I I practiced law for about 40 - actually, for over 40 years - and I've noticed over the last four years or so, probably because my years of practice, that more and more I would see cases that constituted elder financial abuse. And within the context often of will or trust contests. So after seeing this up close and having plenty of stories just from practicing law in the area, I thought it would be a good idea to get the information out, and I did kind of a search of what was available. And it didn't seem like in terms of books that there was all that much available. Well, Michael, I agree with you. I think that your book is an extremely important book, especially now with so many baby boomers really getting up there. So, what would you spot? What you just said is really interesting to me. You said you would notice it coming through just dealing with estates. What would you see, and what caused the concern? Well, what I would often see is abuses of power of attorney before someone had died. So usually when someone is, oh, less empowered or has less cognitive ability, they'll give a power of attorney to someone who's close to them. And for the most part that works out well, but I would see in estate cases where we'd go back and say, 'Okay, what is in this estate?' And we'd find out, well, say, little sister had a power of attorney for three years prior to the time her mother died. And lo and behold, the house was sold, and bank accounts were closed, and so we - I saw that with regularity. I still see that with regularity. Really? And so the other siblings, all of a sudden, they go, 'WOW! Hey I thought Mary was just taking care of some stuff for us, and it turns out she was cleaning them out. Yeah, that's right. Wow. Yeah, surprise, surprise, to all the other siblings. Yeah, okay... so, yeah, your subtitle, I think, is great. The undue influence, I think that's probably what we see the most, right? It is. How so how? How does that work? How does that happen? Well, so we'll go just in context, but what does undue influence - or how is it defined - and it basically means excessive persuasion that causes another person to act or refrain from acting in a way that person wouldn't otherwise do. So you normally see undue influence when these factors show up. And that is the vulnerability of the elder. And a lot of people think, well, vulnerability, or that they have to be incapacitated, and that's not the case at all. And it's, you know, illness can create the vulnerability or disability. Injury, age, education, emotional distress. I've seen, you know, after the death of a loved one or a spouse - then that surviving spouse is very vulnerable. And I've seen some terrible things occur after that. Is it the kids who normally do this, or is it strangers? Yeah, it's unfortunately the majority of it are kids, but you do get you get caregivers who are and then, you know, some absolute strangers. But the greater percentage of this occurs by way of kids. So who are the kids ripping off? Are they ripping off their siblings, or are they ripping - I mean, like, do the parents even know this has happened to them? I guess I'm wondering. Well, sometimes the parents will know but other times, though, you know, if they're unduly influenced, they'll be in a setting like this. You know, a child oftentimes a dependent child, or child who has substance abuse or alcoholism, living with the elderly parent. Yeah. Isn't that the one who was hanging around with the parent? I mean, isn't that kind of the issue? That the caregiving child is the one who had drug problems right? Exactly. I mean, unfortunately it's the truth, and and that's what happens. And then as the parent becomes more dependent on who was a, you know, dependent child, that dependent child has an incredible amount of power over the parent. And you see things like, oh, I had a case where the the child said, "You know, mom, if you don't give me this house, I'm moving to Europe, and you'll have to go to the old people's home." And so you see cases like that. So what do you do if you're, you know, I would just be very uncomfortable asking anybody for power of attorney. And yet a friend of mine, his mother passed recently, by the time he needed power of attorney, it was a huge hassle to get it because she was incapacitated. So we're- how do you deal with that issue? Well, good issue if she still has capacity. I always encourage people who are getting a power of attorney to have some transparency with their sibling or the other trusted person, say, of their parent, because otherwise you can create the situation this kind of a paranoid incubator. Johnny's got all power of attorney, and who knows what he's doing? Once she's incapacitated, there are a few things that we can look at. And one is if there's an existing trust. I'll look at that and see if there is a successor trustee. Because who is - takes as trustee at incapacity. Sometimes in that situation you can then exert enough control to save the estate. But - and you can for the most part - you don't want to go all the way to creating a conservatorship for the parent. Right. That's just bringing the state involved in a very expensive process. So if you're one of five children, and you suspect one of your siblings may be exerting undue influence on your parent, what do you do? Well, work to gather your allies together. So see how many of the other children have the same concern. And because it isn't as though you're trying to take your parents' estate, you're trying to protect your parents' estate. And protect your parents. So I think it's important to get allies. And then after that occurs, you make a - and this is a conversation I have with people probably two or three times a week - after that, go see the parent. And oftentimes the parent is maybe he's not going to want to talk or may say, "Oh yeah, there is, you know, you know, Johnny's taken over the estate or whatever." And if that doesn't work with the parent, we'll then make an approach to the person who's taken over the estate either by the trust or the power of attorney and let them know that you're suspicious and you'd like them to account for what's been done. If that doesn't work, then we go a little heavier. Okay, so is there anything that can be done? So you're there with your four siblings and mom passes away, and then you find out the one has indeed been using undue influence. They get everything and the other four are standing there. And it was all legal documents. Everything's signed, everything's done. Are you just out of luck? Or can you fight it? No. No, if you're out of luck, I wouldn't have a job. That's basically where we get involved, and there are two elements to it. One, California as well as a number of other states, have elder financial abuse litigation laws, and so we file in the civil courts against the wrongdoer for elder financial abuse. And if we're successful, it effectively ends - it causes the wrongdoer to become disinherited. We also file on the probate courts to remove that person - the wrongdoer - if he or she has become the trustee or the executor of the estate. So we really have a - when we get into this, it's a pretty intense action. Because we're usually - and it might be in the same court, say in San Francisco - but one is in the civil court, the other is in the probate court. Okay, so my brother, my older brother, was really good financially, and my best friend. And he passed early, but the one thing he taught me is every time we would be doing any kind of deal together - and I trusted him completely. I would not want to hear the financial details, and he would demand that I sit there and listen to the financial details of whatever scheme we were involved in. And boy, I've learned from that whenever I'm dealing with somebody, I make sure we put it all in paper, that we all look at it, we all know exactly what's going on so that there aren't any misunderstandings later. Do you tell your clients to do something like that? Absolutely, because it's so easy to forget what went on or if something does happen to you and someone is picking up your files, and you can't make heads or tails of what's going on, that just makes it more difficult to them. So your brother was a wise man, and it makes a lot of sense. We're talking to Michael Hackard. He's written a book called The Wolf at the Door: Undue Influence and Elder Financial Abuse. He's an attorney. Michael, where can people get this book? They can buy it on Amazon, both the regular book as well as a Kindle. They can also get it, I guess they can get it on Apple to Apple books and Barnes and Noble. So it is available. Michael Hackard, thank you very much for - Hackard - I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your time today. I think it's a super valuable book; I hope you sell a million of them. Thank you very much.  