 Hey y’all it’s Rose. Today I’m going to introduce you to the SmartDesk by Autonomous. The SmartDesk is a $300 desk that remembers your preferred standing and sitting height. And with the push of a button, it will automatically adjust for you. Though the base model price is $299, you can upgrade the desk in multiple ways. You can upgrade the surface top, you can upgrade the shape, or you can even upgrade from a single motor to a dual motor design that can lift up to 300 lbs. But what really ties this desk into the smart home is the AI BOX, which adds Amazon Echo-like ability to the desk. (Can you bring down the temperature? No problem.) Using your voice or the included mobile app you can order lunch, call for an Uber, adjust the temperature, control your Hue lights, and more. The only upgrade I purchased was the $50 ergonomic cutout. And yes, I think it was worth $50. The desk, in general, is well worth the $300 price tag, to me. It was difficult to assemble the desk, because it comes in multiple pieces, but once it’s assembled, it’s a really sturdy desk. All that said, we are going to play a little game called claim vs performance. Claim 1: The most affordable standing desk on earth. I’m not sure who makes the most affordable standing desk. I guess if you buy the SmartDesk without the motor it’s pretty inexpensive at $149, but who wants a smart desk without a motor? You could buy a desk from IKEA for $239, but for less than $70 more, the SmartDesk can support twice as much weight, let you automatically move from a seated to standing position, and it’s sturdy. It doesn’t move when you type and barely moves when adjusting heights. Claim 2: Let’s jump down to unparalled performance through advanced Electric Motor System. True. This thing is hardcore. It can lift up to 220lbs with the single motor system or you can upgrade to the dual motor desk which can lift up to 300lbs. Claim 3: Smart Keypad that remembers your perfect sitting and standing height. This is true. However, I imagined the process as a quick, push the button once and it adjusts. In actuality, you still have to hold the button down to get to your desired height. And as a side note, you can actually mount the keypad under your desk if you prefer. Moving on to Claim 4: The most silent standing desk, sound levels at 39db during movement. I’m rating this one as mostly true. I’d say it’s pretty quiet. It’s definitely not distracting at all. When I was testing the sound levels, my sound level meter didn’t read over 47 decibels. Claim 5: let’s skip down to the last one. The safest standing desk with advanced Anti Collision Technology. Do you think that means it’s not going to crush me? Okay. So anti-collision. I’m not sure what that means, but it definitely does not mean that it’s not going to stop and crush whatever’s under the desk. So that’s a false claim. False. All in all though it really is a solid desk. It comes with a 30 day return period, it comes with a 5 year warranty. I’m definitely not going to return mine. In fact, I think I might upgrade it with an accessory kit or with artificial intelligence. So if you want to learn more about the desk, click on the link below to read the full review. I’ve also put a link down there to autonomous.ai, which is the link you’ll need to go to if you want to buy the desk. If you have any questions, feel free to comment below. Otherwise, thanks so much for spending time with me today. I really appreciate it and I will see y’all later. 