 Welcome to The Original ScrapBox Showroom! We are so excited to unveil the new WorkBox 3.0. It looks similar to our old one, but wait until we show you some new features. Instead of ten wheels, we’ve added 2 more wheels on the bottom, so you can put 200 more pounds into your WorkBox. Let me show you the inside. Do you notice anything new? We are so excited about the new totes. The first one is still our 12.25 x 12.25, but we’ve added five totes that have these new notions inserts. Aren’t they nice? The size 12.25 x 12.25, so for all you paper lovers out there, you’ll have plenty of totes to put your paper in. It comes with 33 of this size tote. It comes with 20 of the shoebox tote. And we have added something new to this size. We've added two dividers and they are removable. You can take them out if you don’t want the divider. Our last size tote is the notions tote and the notions tote, it comes with 26 of those. It also has three dividers that we’ve added and these also are removable. Attached is our beautiful crown accessory with double LED light. In our new WorkBox 3.0 we’ve also added two extra shelves for more storage in our center section. We also have a very large space. That’s right under here and you can put magazines, books, you can also put photo albums, in this space right here, or things you most often use, or a project you’re working on. But our ScrapMaBox, which is one of our new accessories this year. We’ve designed it so it fits perfectly in this space for all of your tools. We’ve also designed the ScrapMaBox to go the other way. So if you wanted to store it on its side, you can store it under here, or it will fit in this section, or in this section. And now our 3.0 we can also store over on this side. It can also fit over here. Our 2.0 if you remember, used to have a divider in the middle. Well we’ve removed that so you can customize your WorkBox more, with some of the accessories that we offer. Our right swing door comes with a black felt panel. You can velcro anything onto your right swing door. It comes with 10 clear zipper pouches that have velcro on the back. Or you can take your craft supplies and put a velcro sticky dot on the back and store anything you want. We’ve added in our new 3.0 a pocket on the bottom so you could put rulers or anything you want down here. The right swing door is our black felt panel door. Our left swing door shows seven shelves. Each one of these shelves comes with an acrylic guard as you see, but it also comes with two metal rods. We’ve chosen here to put the two metal rods here so we can store ribbons and  Washi tape. It also comes with 3 pockets for pens, pencils, paintbrushes, markers, anything you want to put there. Underneath the pockets we have 6 hooks for hanging small tools, scissors, and other accessories. And then we have 3 totes at the bottom that also has the velcro on it for the felt panel. On both sides of our swing doors you have an option to add one of our accessories. And it’s the white magnetic boards It comes in two panels so you can put either 2 here or if you want to put 1 here on the top and one on the other side. You can do that as well. And it’s made specifically for all of your dies. We also have an electrical cord hole in the back for all of your machines. What we’ve done here is put a power strip so we can use glue guns, anything we want here. We also wanted to show you that you can put any machine back here. We’ve designed it specifically so you can also include your Cricut and store it there. Or you can store your Big Shot or any other machine you have. The WorkBox 3.0 also has vertical adjustable shelving. Let me show you how it works. If you want to add something of your own. You can just take the shelf out. And the best part is, is when you are done working, you can close the whole thing up and nobody knows what’s inside your WorkBox. The WorkBox 3.0 has been improved because of your help and your feedback. And also the incredible local craftsman who has helped us develop this new build that we have that will only take you 2-3 hours. Our old WorkBox took some customers 9-10 hours to be able to put together. We are really excited about this new build. It’s a patented lock dowel system that anyone can put together. Here at The Original ScrapBox we know we can help you get organized. We organize so you can simplify, save time, and create. 