 Welcome to Microsoft Mechanics Coming up on the show we will take a look at the new Delve Analytics. We will review the underlying tech to provide work analytics in a compliant, private and, secure way. And, share some of the ways  you can use Delve Analytics to increase productivity and get time back. Whether you're an employee seeking to  improve impact and effectiveness or a business leader looking at  organizational efficiency. We will give you a first look at the road map  with upcoming milestones. Microsoft Mechanics We start our journey with the Office graph last year when we showed how Delve becomes a personal tool that allows information to come to you. At Ignite this year we showed how we're taking that and  evolving the technology to include personal and team analytics. I'm joined today by Ryan Fuller. Part of the volumetrics acquisition leader in the space. Welcome. Thanks. It's good to be here. So, Ryan how are things progressing? Well as you know, this is part of a broader vision for reinventing productivity  with the intelligent cloud and empowering every person and organization to be productive. So, the next stage for us is delivering further on personal and organizational analytics. To do that, we're automating the discovery of insights within the Office 365 service which processes literally millions of interactions daily. So we can take that data and we can personalize it to what matters most to you  and your organization. Ryan, we know for example there are around 850 million  meetings scheduled a month. And, there are billions of contacts and relationships and an equally high number of contents being shared via Office 365. That's right, it's literally one of the  largest data sets in existence. Let me tell you more about how it works. At the organizational tenant level we have all the transactions such as email calendar, messaging, telephony, and importantly information on organizational hierarchies and relationships in your organization. We built the Office graph to organize these data points which we call Signals. The first use of Office graph was personalized insights and optimize search via Delve. This used the relationships of  each transaction to discover information important to you and trending around you. Delve Analytics however, takes us further by incorporating time, network, and activities as dimensions so that you layer on analytics around how you are spending time in a  personal and team level. What is great is because the data  remains within Office 365. We can apply sophisticated machine  learning and analytics to deliver insights and take advantage of the extensive  compute power of the service. All the while maintaining strict privacy controls. So what are some of the ways you  can use Delve analytics today? Our goal is for everyone in the organization to be able to take advantage of Delve Analytics. It should be able to help you analyze your own data and help you and your team better prioritize their time. So, starting with the personal dashboard which I can walk you through. So, if you take a look at this there's a number of different data points that would be very hard for you to get in any other way. So things like, how much time are  you spending in meetings or email? how much time are you  getting to focus on work without distractions? Or, how much time are you  spending on work after hours? These are examples of basic metrics of how your time is being spent. You can set goals on and you can you can work towards improving. Beyond that, there's all kinds of insights that can be delivered around who you're  interacting with the most. So, I can understand that these are the  people I'm spending the most time with. How quickly they tend to respond when I email them. How quickly I respond when they email me. It can prompt me if there are certain  people that I use to be in touch with. Maybe I'm losing touch with and, maybe I want to reach out and  sort of rekindle that relationship. I can understand some specifics about how my relationship with my manager is working. Am I spending enough time in one-on-ones with them? Or, do we have a relationship that's  most productive for us? And then, there's all kinds of details here. So again what are the how am I spending time in meetings versus other people in my organization? And maybe I spend way more time in  meetings than anybody else. That's useful for me to know that. And then I can understand specifically which meetings are taking up the most of my time? And, how high quality are those meetings? That's fascinating. How does the meeting quality work? There's a lot of different indicators that we used to calculate meeting quality. So things like how many people are  sending lots of emails or multitasking during the meeting? Things like, how often are  people double booked? How many different layers of management  are coming to the same meeting? Are there too many people in a meeting? So there's an algorithm behind the scenes that can rate basically how effective that meeting appears to be. It's not perfect but, it makes you think. It makes you think if I spending  twenty hours a month on this weekly sync meeting or whatever it may be and its low quality, maybe I should rethink that. It makes total sense. So, similarly we can offer insights like that around email. How much time you spend in writing or reading email? How much are people responding  to those emails? Are they actually wasting peoples  time or your own time? Or, could you do anything to make that more effective? I mentioned focused time earlier. This is a really important one. A lot of people are back-to-back meetings all day and just running back and forth. They never have time to actually sit down and get work done. So this is a metric A focus hour, is how often you have at least two hours between meetings that you can actually get something done. And we find from work a lot of our work that more of that is better. And oftentimes you can just rearrange your schedule and find more of that time. There's similarly insights on after hours work So, this is how much time are you doing  meetings or emails after 6 p.m. or on weekends. Obviously, real implications for work-life balance and a major reason to try to improve that so employees can be more engaged and more productive at work. All of these things these are just examples of many different  kinds of insights we can deliver. The idea is that people will make small changes in their day that will make them more productive. So, I'm maybe going to invite two  less people to that meeting. Or, I'm going to maybe shift that other meeting a couple hours later so I have time to get work done in between. Just little decisions like that. And we know that little decisions like that across a lot of people  in an organization can add up to very real and very big change at an organizational level. And I can certainly sympathize with  a lot of these metrics here but tell me how it works in terms of  the organizational view and what you can really do their? Yeah, so there's some really exciting stuff there and I'll walk you through a very  specific example to give you sense of what's possible. So, this is an example of a company that we worked with where they  had a weekly status meeting that had 11 people in it that we could calculate the  amount of time spent in that weekly meeting. So with those people and the meeting it was about seven thousand hours a year. And these are just the executive tier folks in that meeting, right? That's right. So that was seven thousand hours a year just for the people in that meeting. So using the data set, we were able to see that there are quite a number of prep meetings for that meeting. So all of the attendees had  prep meeting that went into it. And, we could calculate the time that  went into all those prep meetings. That added quite a lot of more time. But then, that wasn't it. There was prep meetings for those prep meetings. And yet, another circle of prep meetings  for those prep meetings. And by the time you added up all this time It was literally three hundred thousand hours a year of time was spent on this one weekly meeting that most people didn't think was very valuable anyway. Worst, when you calculate based on the people that were involved in all of this prep and the actual meeting. There's about 45 million dollar annual investment just to do this one weekly status meeting that everybody thought was a waste of time. This is the kind of thing where prior to doing this analysis and putting a dollar number on it people just kind of rolled there  eyes and went to the meeting. Now, that they see how much this  is actually costing them they've changed. This is a really fascinating example. So, where is all this going? So this is just one example. There are a number of different things  that you can do with this data. Volumetrics has been investing in this area for close to five years now. And, we've uncovered in quite a large variety of different ways to provide value to organizations. As part of Microsoft going forward we can do this at much greater scale as we integrate to Office 365. A number of great opportunities. Imagine things like what are my top performing sales people  and teams doing differently that the rest of my organization can learn from. Imagine, how can my employees be more engaged. Imagine, how can we become more  efficient as an organization overall. When can we start looking at these capabilities actually hitting Delve in the  Office 365 services? Well, Personal and Work Analytics is available as part of the E5 suite which you can try today. This is going to start out initially  with just personal dashboards as I showed. To improve individual effectiveness  for everyone in he enterprise. Over time it will expand to team dashboards and a number of other  capabilities will get rolled out that empower people and teams. And then later in 2016 we will be introducing the analytics platform in an API to enable some of this targeted organizational analytics. Okay, so a lot of huge updates. I'm really looking forward to actually  using some of this myself. Thanks for joining us Ryan. That's about all the time we have for today's show. Of course you can keep watching Microsoft Mechanics on Wednesdays or as news breaks. Thanks everyone for watching and goodbye for now. Microsoft Mechanics www.microsoft.com/mechanics 