 I'm extremely excited to be on this consumer stage as Maybe the most common used consumer good drinking water Surprisingly enough That about such a basic product. There's so many different opinions in everybody's mind and a lot of myths Bottled water is healthier than tap water not true Plastic bottles gets recycled. So there is actually no problem with the waste not true grass pods which are mainly used now in Germany, for example Are good eternity for plastic bottles, and we don't see any impact on the environment. Not true bottled water has less micro plastics pharmaceuticals or hormones then tap water unfortunately, also not true and and as I have two little girls I Can tell you this is also not true. It's safer to use bottled water to have mom baby milk than tap water What makes us get up every day is exactly this We want to avoid plastic use of bottles by 10 billion plastic both of those in the Year 2023 and beside of this building a very health business model and getting about 1 billion Euros and turnover also in the same year What is the problem we are trying to tackle At the moment more than 600 million households use or buy bottled water every day That means every second minute 1 million of these little one or bigger born bottles are thrown away every two minutes 1 million Yeah, and this is what we all know from the news it's creating a big huge of plastic waste in our oceans and all the landfills wherever we are and There's something which was implemented in our mindset over the last 30 years By some very well-known companies is that bottled water is safer and more healthy than tap water Beside of this they make a huge fortune all of this because it's 500 times more expenses then bottled air than tap water and 50 times more than filtered water Our solution to this problem is called tap It's a mixture between tap water and app. I will get to break through this later It's the world's first smart buy it 100% biodegradable water filter for your home It's very easy to install system. It takes like not about 15 seconds. Depends on your your your possibilities with your hands and We offer this as a standalone die to consumer business or as a subscription model It's affordable. It's very very cheap and it gives you clean and tasty water and it's very sustainable Our 300 value proposition is it has to be cheap and easy to install so it saves you money Second it's very convenient. You don't have don't have to carry all the water bottles up the fifth floor and Barcelona. That's quite common and Third it's saving the environment The filtration technology we use is 100% based on biological products comes from of coconut shell And this filter technology removes more than 80 contaminants possible contaminants in your tap water and reduces another 50 the most common ones are Chlorine, it's actually a contaminant. It's not bad for your body. But the taste and the smell is just horrible And now as I'm living in Barcelona, I can tell you the water doesn't taste well No, it smells very good and we filter that out. Oops. Sorry What is more dangerous is When we talk about all pipes in your houses made maybe out of lead because that really affects your brain development of your child's if letters inside the water Microplastics which are actually produced by this kind of bottles because if they are Getting turned down there a lot of micro class is going to back to our ecosystem and you finally you find this in tap water and and unfortunately also in the bottled water we filter that out and pharmaceuticals Pesticides which are fine phone can be found in tap water in heavy agricultural regions Also get eliminated But we don't see it us as it's just the hardware company. We are a service company Of course We produce the water filters and we and we distribute them but together with our software the app We create an ecosystem around water at the moment with the app. You can see the filter status of your product You can see how much co2 you have saved how much money you have saved and how much plastic bottles you have? Not being thrown away The next generation we're talking about sensors inside the product and these sensors will sensor and give you an as a result how the tap water is before the filtration process and after the first collection process and This will add as we have the stadium Will create a service that we would provide for the end consumers but also for the governments to see About this. What is the status of the current tap water in the system that Will create a lot of great insights about the water just in the United States every year 60 billion US dollars are used to keep the water for infrastructure in place and By us knowing what is going on in the water system. We are able to help the governments there as well The market size is huge we talk about 140 billion Euros spent every year on bottled water and always call us illegal cocaine trade because these margins 500 I Don't I don't see any other margin? market in the world words like this and The company one from in Spain six million households buy bottled water every day or consume bottled water every day six million The rest of Europe is another seventy five million Then you have North American in total at six hundred million households And also the water purification market water purification or filtering is not nothing new it's growing rapidly because more and more consumers wake up and start using filtration systems especially the point of use Market where we are based in is growing rapidly twenty percent over a year Some key informations about the company we were founded 2016 in Barcelona and we have sold more than forty thousand units To sixty countries. Our core markets are Spain Italy Germany and North America We are growing rapidly. We have a last year we grow three times and hopefully this year will go a little bit faster Receive two million euros and funding so far 1.2 million 1.3 million from the European Union as a grant for research and development we are close to 20 people and will the wild reach from data scientists water scientists? Product engineers and so on and we're trying to solve this very big problem of the world And this year we are going to close the a round So I would like you to join the tap revolution either as a customer don't use this anymore or a partner company An employee or maybe even also an investor. Thank you You 