 Lonnie King: So, for our next panel, we're going to continue to focus on innovation and also antibiotics therapeutics and alternatives. So, we have four panelists, and thank you for being with us. So, we're going to start the discussion with Discovery of Veterinary Spectrum Specific Agents and the Need for Innovation in Animal Health. We're very pleased to have Jeffrey Watts with us from Zoetis. It's up to -- you're on.  Jeff Watts: Thank you so much, Dr. King, for -- and to the council -- having me here today to talk about something that I've really been passionate about for many years, and that's antibacterial discovery. So, I'm going to talk specifically about the need for veterinary spectrum-specific agents in animal health. Next slide, please. So, just as a matter of disclosure, I do work for Zoetis. We're the world's largest animal health company, and the key thing on this slide that -- of all the different factoids up there is the focus is around -- we have a portfolio that's 42 percent companion animal, 57 percent livestock, and we also have a split of about 45/55 between vaccines and pharmaceuticals. So, next slide, please. So, when we start talking about One Health -- and we strongly support the One Health initiative -- we look at this tripartite philosophy here of healthy animals, healthy people, and healthy environment. And I want to bring out the fact that when we talk about veterinarians many times, we're talking about their role in animal welfare. However, we also need to think about their role in food security through the food inspection service and also through those activities in the protection of public health. Next slide. So, we start talking about the innovation across the entire continuum of care in animal health, which is one of the things that we talk about. We talk about predict, prevent, detect, and treat. There certainly are opportunities for innovation in all of these spaces, whether it's genetic analysis, whether it's vaccines, diagnostics. But what I'm going to really talk about today and focus on is the medicine piece, and that's the antibacterial discovery in pharmaceuticals. Next slide, please. So, as everyone is well aware, we've had the emergence of therapy-limiting resistant organisms of both human health and veterinary medicine, and this has caused a crisis in which one of the things that we need to be doing in animal health is looking for novel, non-shared class agents for the treatment of animal diseases. And so, we talk about -- the phrase we use is veterinary spectrum-specific agents, where we're going to tune a spectrum or look for those compounds that have activity only against the specific animal diseases if possible. We're going to try to skew activity toward those animal disease pathogens; we're going reduce activity against the ESKAPE pathogens; we're going to reduce activity against zoonotics; and we're going to have -- and we're going to be focused on our primary diseases, which are pneumonia in cattle and swine, mastitis and skin and soft tissue infection in dogs. And those are the claim structures and the routes of administration that we live under in a regulatory structure. Next slide please. So, now we're going to talk a bit about substrate, and when we start talking about substrate, I separate them out into two broad categories. The first is traditional small molecules, and these are capable of effectively treating acute disease as standalone therapies. And so, we start talking about novel analogs, which is where you're going to take your medicinal chemistry efforts, and you're going to focus those on changing the spectrum of a compound within an existing class to have greater activity against of a veterinary pathogen and away from the zoonotic pathogens. Or you may look at novel classes, where they usually have some issue that precludes their use in human health -- a toxicity issue, a safety issue, something like that. Within the last category I think is really an area that I find very exciting in that is it's using the bacterial genomics capabilities that we have today to try to find separate targets. These are targets that only exist in veterinary pathogens; they were not existing in the pathogen. Therefore, we would have compounds that would only have utility in veterinarian medicine but would be as effective as any other traditional small molecule agent. And I provide an example for that -- of that for you in the pre-read information that I gave you. Next slide. So, the other type of substrate that we talk about are the alternatives -- what are commonly referred to as the alternatives to antibiotics, or nontraditional antibacterial. And these are really envisioned as direct swap-outs for traditionally antibacterials. So, when I talk about -- when I think about alternatives to antibiotics, I'm not thinking about vaccines; I'm not thinking about management programs or disinfectants. I'm thinking about something that we swapped out as a replacement for an antibiotic. For that reason, I use the term SMARS, which is Small Molecule Antibiotic Replacements, and this encompasses multiple categories of agents. So, we're talking about peptides; we're talking about bacteriophages, including the -- I lumped in the phage lysin constructs there; immunomodulators; variance modifiers; monoclonal antibodies; the microbiome and microbiome modifiers. And one of the things that we've been involved in exploring some of the substrate over the past 10 years, and one of the things we've learned, is that every substrate category has a learning curve, and it takes a certain amount of time for you to just understand "What the questions are I should be asking when I'm working in this substrate category?" And so, that takes a significant -- sometimes significant investment in research dollars just to understand the questions you should be asking. And typically, what I would say -- it takes a minimum of three years, and probably takes you five years, before you're ready to really play in that substrate category. And the other thing that we found in exploring this space over the past 10 years is that it's most likely many of these applications are going to be limited in the prevention and control indications. They are not going to have the efficacy that will allow them to treat acute disease. So, that's where I think most of these agents will end up -- if they're approved regulated products, that's where they will end up sitting. The only exception to that -- and I know the speaker following me will talk about this -- is in the bacteriophage space. So, we may have the ability to actually treat acute disease using bacteriophages. However, in many cases that may be as an ultra-narrow spectrum agent where you're treating a specific strain of a pathogen. Next slide. So, this is one of the things I'd like to talk about in terms of whether or not we should be prosecuting individual assets, or whether or not we should be going after substrate-specific programs. And so, when we talk about individual asset prosecution, that was traditionally the animal health model. That is, we've leveraged in substrate from our human health counterpart, and we prosecuted that one asset, and if it failed, we moved on, and that was the end of it. However, now, because of separation from parent companies and because of inability to leverage and separation in the antibacterial space, what we're finding is that we can't leverage from the parent company, so we're looking externally, to start-ups and academia, to provide some of those individual substrate opportunities. Many of those opportunities are single asset opportunities. They're often declined at the -- as being too early, and the reason for that is many times they come to us, they have in vitro data, they maybe have some rodent data, but they have no target animal efficacy. And so, that's really the piece of information that would convince us that this is an asset that we should be spending millions of dollars on to advance. That POC study is usually a cost barrier to me and the company. So, for example, if you're working in mastitis, and you need to do a POC study in dairy cows, dairy cows are $5,000 each. That's a cost barrier that many small startup companies cannot bear, and so that's where some of these assets fall by the wayside. And the other thing is that the sponsors themselves have to have the ability to scout for that expertise, identify the opportunity, and to get into a substrate area, and then we have to be able to rapidly evaluate those assets. And so, that's the other thing, is the expertise within the company sometimes is lacking in these specific alternative spaces. When we start talking about substrate-specific programs, now we're talking about something that looks more like the large pharma type of programs where you actually have a medicinal chemistry program. You have a target you're going after; you screen against it; you create analogs; and then you create the stream of lead candidates that you're going to be evaluating. If one dies, then you just pull up your backup, and you start working on it. But you stay in that program for years. That requires a longer-term investment; it requires a lot more expertise to be sitting internally, for the most part, in terms of medicinal chemistry resources, in terms of screening capabilities, those sorts of things. Many of the animal health companies lack the resources to run more than one or two of these programs in a space, so that's one of the other limiting factors that we have. So, one of the things we may start to do, and they need to do, is look externally to externalize some of those screening and medicinal chemistry opportunities. Again, that's a matter of money and resources to allow you to do that sort of thing. So -- next slide. So, as I thought about this and put it together, what I wanted to do is give you some recommendations, and I wanted to do it within the context of the National Action Plan. And so, all of the things that I'm -- all of my recommendations actually fit under goal four of that plan. And so, in Section 4.3, under "intensify R&D for new therapeutics," it would require adding the requirement for the need for novel animal health agents to address MDR animal pathogens, and one of the things that I would ask is that all the human health antibacterial screening programs include a few strains of some of the MDR veterinary pathogens. That way, if they find compounds that have activity against veterinary pathogens but not against human pathogens, we would be able to see them; we would be able to identify them. Right now, they're going in the waste bin, and they're getting thrown away. We're not talking about screening large numbers; we're just talking about screening a few. Under 4.4, "develop nontraditional therapeutics," we need clear separation of the SMARS products in that section from vaccines and disinfectants and other types of alternative approaches. And then, under 4.6 and 4.7, where we talk about enhancing public-private partnerships, the animal health components need to be included, and I think we need to enhance some of the resources available to the veterinary startups so that they would have additional funding and expertise to help them get those compounds through their early POC studies and across what's been termed the valley of death in the pharmaceutical space. So, with that -- next slide -- I believe that's it. Okay. So, thank you very much.  Lonnie King: Great. Dr. Watts, thank you very much. We appreciate that. Again, we'll just hold our questions and our discussions till after all of our panelists. So, now we'll turn our attention to Phages as Antibiotic Alternatives and their use in Humans, Agriculture, and Aquaculture, and we're glad to welcome Nancy Tawil from Phagelux Incorporated.  Nancy Tawil: Thank you so much for having me. I am very honored to be part of the discussion today. I want to talk to you about what we are doing in the field with bacteriophages as the antibiotic alternatives in humans, agriculture, and aquaculture. Next slide, please. So, I think that we can all agree that we need to find novel or alternative ways to antibiotics, and, ironically, we believe that this novel way might just be the prehistorical predator of bacteria, bacteriophages. Bacteriophages are viruses that are very specific against bacteria, and they're found everywhere in the environment and in the human body. They recognize their bacterial strain by specific receptors; they then inject their DNA inside of that bacterium and use the replication machinery in order to replicate its DNA, assemble its components, and then afterwards they lyse the bacteria from within, dispersing hundreds of phages within the environment. And then, in turn, each one of these bacteriophages will go and infect another bacterium. And so, this is called the lytic cycle, and for the purpose of this talk, I'm sticking to lytic bacteriophages. What's really interesting about bacteriophages is that they have the ability of dispersing biofilms, and if you don't want to use the whole bacteriophage, the whole virus, then you can use the bacteriophage and the lysins, which are the phage enzymes, to actually lyse the bacteria from without. You can also engineer bacteriophages in order to re-sensitize resistant bacteria to antibiotics. Next slide. And so, at Phagelux we use bacteriophages, lysins, and other biological solutions as an alternative or an adjunct to antibiotics, and we are targeting, of course, antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Our human health division is currently specializing in topicals for burn care and ulcers, but we also have lysins for acne and eczema, and we work on the prevention of peripatetic joint infections as well as the treatment of PGIs. The AgriHealth Division has four franchises. We have our crop sciences, our food safety, animal health, and feed additives. In the AgriHealth Division, we have currently 13 products under development, with eight products that are currently on the market. Next slide, please. And so, if we take a look at what we're doing for diabetics, also, as we know, the market value will reach $10 billion by 2020 and that invasive infections are responsible for 51 percent of deaths after burn injuries. And so, we believe that, for human applications, what we need to do is to find the proper delivery system, because, of course, we -- if we are making products not only for the U.S. but for the developing countries, we need to make sure that these products are stable. And, also, we need to make sure that they can be stored at room temperature, which is very hard to do with liquid solutions of bacteriophages. Also, when we use those amino acid biodegradable polymers, we also protect the bacteriophages against Ph enzymes, that in the human body might not be -- might reduce the efficacy of bacteriophages. And so, we take those amino acid biopolymers, and we make patches. The patch that you see here is the third generation of its kind. The first and second generations were sold in the Republic of Georgia, and although there has never been any clinical -- formal clinical trial, it has been used on hundreds of patients. And so, in order to bring it to the U.S. market, we have improved on the copolymer, the phages, the way that we are producing them, et cetera. We also make other spray bandages for burn and ulcers. Next slide. Our AgriHealth Division -- we have a sister company here in the U.S. in Salt Lake City called OmniLytics, and OmniLytics have been spraying our crops since 2005 with a product called AgriPhage. They treated Xanthomonas and Pseudomonas species for tomatoes and peppers as well as Clavibacter for tomatoes, Erwinia for pear and apple disease, and Xanthomonas species for the citrus canker trees. So, we are producing approximately 70,000 liters of the phage products every year for the AgriPhage, and we are spraying this on large areas in the United States. It's safe, it's organic, it's eco-friendly, and we are EPA-registered. Next slide, please. OmniLytics is also working on two products for E. coli. The first product they are producing is called Finalize [phonetic sp], and they spray around 3,500 heads of cattle every year before slaughter. The second product has not received the GRAS notification yet, but our results are very positive. We are targeting shigella toxin-producing E. coli, and we will be starting trials in vivo as soon as we get that GRAS notification. Our other product targets salmonella, and it's called SalmoPro. Basically, what we do is we spray SalmoPro on eggs, poultry, and beef, and we control salmonella in foods. Next slide. In China, we produce -- well, 688 million pigs are slaughtered every year in China, and because our company is based -- its headquarters are in Shanghai, and we have many manufacturing facilities and research laboratories in China, we are actually looking at how to reduce antibiotic use in pigs. So, China is responsible for half of the world's pork production, and they inject pigs with around 170 million tons of antibiotics a year. As with the U.S., the Chinese government is trying to lower the use of antibiotics, and so in many provinces they have a big problem with exudative epidermidis. Basically, the piglets are infected with Staph aureus, Staph hyicus, and Staph sciuri, and what they usually do in order to help with this is they inject penicillin inside of these piglets, and then they flush their skin with 0.1 percent of purple salt. And so, what we did is, instead of doing this, we just spray those piglets with a phage cocktail once a day for five days, and the results are pretty dramatic. Next slide. We also have launched bacteriophage product for shrimps this year, and so what we are aiming to do is treat hepatopancreatic necrosis syndrome in those shrimp that is caused by Vibrio parahaemolyticus. And so, this results in $1 billion of economic losses per year in China and 80 percent of output losses. I know that we have the same problem in Mexico right now. So, in Southeast Asia this is a huge problem -- next slide -- again, what we do is we create cocktails of bacteriophages, and we go inside of the field. Here you can see that when we do treat our ponds with bacteriophages, we see an increase in shrimp length in those treated ponds when we compare them to controls, and in the larvae ponds we see a 14 percent increase in yields. What's interesting is that we see a complete clearance of Vibrio parahaemolyticus inhibition within 24 hours of putting those bacteriophages in the water, and the bacteriophages -- what we've seen -- stay there in the water for about five days, and then there is -- they're not there anymore. Next slide. So, in conclusion, I want to stress that phages are naturally occurring, they're safe, and they're effective in treating or preventing bacterial infections. We have a lot of data on this. There might not have been controlled studies in humans here, but we do have data from the European countries, and we also have data in the U.S. since 2005 for crops. Phages also can re-sensitize resistant bacteria to antibiotics. So, yes, bacteria can become resistant to phages, but it comes at a cost, and so most bacteria that become resistant to phages become sensitive to antibiotics. We've seen that in humans. We haven't seen any resistance in the fields in the U.S. I can come back to that after. I just want to say that there is synergy between phages and antibiotics, and it can be used in human health, agriculture, aquaculture, and food safety quite effectively. Thank you.  Lonnie King: Great, thank you very much. So, now we're going to invite Dr. Steve Brooks to talk about internal biosecurity -- oh, no, that was another -- Antibiotic Manufacturers' Commitments: Supporting Measures to Reduce Concentrations of Antibiotics in Manufacturing Waste Discharge. Dr. Brooks, thank you.  Steve Brooks: Thank you, and it's a pleasure to be here this afternoon. What I'm going to talk about is in part commitment and in part progress that has been made in the industry to address the issue of manufacturing wastes from antibiotic production plants, so I'll hopefully be able to show you some progress has been made. Just -- if you could put me on the first slide, please. I work for Pfizer, a leading global biopharmaceutical company and with a very significant presence and investments here in the United States, as the slide will illustrate. We are a leading supplier of anti-infective medicines, and we work closely with the anti-infective community to -- together to address commitments to addressing the challenge of antimicrobial resistance across many aspects. And we've been talking about several of them here today, but what I'm going to talk about is responsible manufacturing practices. So, if you could take me to the to the next slide, please, you'll see the logo sort of change to the AMR Industry Alliance because I'm also the chair of the manufacturing group of the AMR Industry Alliance, so I'm really going to talk about the progress that's been made through the Alliance. I'm happy to, you know, add color commentary based on my Pfizer experience as necessary. I'd like to start by saying that affordable, accessible antibiotics are essential to public health, and they bring huge societal benefits. And our supply chain as an industry is global; we have a significant footprint of manufacturing operations in emerging markets as well as developed markets, and there have been reports that you've probably seen concerned about pollution from manufacturing plants, particularly in some of those emerging markets like India and China. Key reports such as O'Neill have asserted that there's a link between drug production, pollution associated with drug production, and development of antimicrobial resistance, and of course there's been plenty of academic, media, and even investor interest in this issue, all highlighting concerns related to our manufacturing processes and antimicrobial resistance. This is recognized as a concern by many stakeholders, including the industry, and there are many calls for action, including action by governments. I'm going to go on in a moment to show you that there are several sources of antibiotics in the environment -- manufacturing is one of those potential sources -- and the AMR Alliance that I'm here representing today is the life science industry's response to the call to action on AMR, including on manufacturing matters. Next slide, please. So, this diagram is really a simple illustration that antibiotics can find their way into the environment through many sources. I'm here to talk about the manufacturing elements of that, but most of what we manufacture, of course, ends up as medicines that patients, be they human or animal, take. I think we've already heard this morning 80 percent of what we take is excreted through normal uses, not metabolized very well, and it's excreted out into the wastewater systems wherever we live and wherever we are. Equally, antibiotics are used in treating livestock and can enter the environment through that route and other agricultural uses that we've also heard about today as well. So, there are many ways in which antibiotics can find their way into the environment. So, we recognize with manufacturing, although we are not the main source of the presence of antibiotics through our manufacturing processes in the environment, that it is a concern, particularly in the local cows around manufacturing locations. So, next slide please. So, the industry in 2016 agreed to a number of commitments to reduce environmental impact from the production of antibiotics. The four commitments -- and I'll just briefly summarize them -- the first basically says that we will review our own manufacturing processes, our own plants and supply chains, to ensure we've got good practice in place, and that's really an individual company commitment as members of the Alliance. The next three commitments are what I call commitments in kind. Together we committed to do the following: to develop a framework for antibiotic manufacturing, kind of a sound practices for environmental management, and we said we'd do that by 2018. We also said that we'd work with stakeholders to develop a practical mechanism to transparently demonstrate that we're meeting our commitments in terms of the supply chain, and we also said we'd work with other experts as well as our own to develop science-driven, risk-based discharge targets so that we could kind of establish a basis of safety for discharge from manufacturing plants. We said we'd do that by 2020. So, these are the commitments of the Alliance, and just to ground you, there's about 100 companies -- biotech, research pharmaceutical companies, generic pharmaceutical companies -- diagnostics in the Alliance and the associated trade associations as well. If you take me to the next slide, of those companies, 15 are really in commercial manufacture of antibiotics. So, those 15 companies are really now the companies I'm going to talk about in terms of what we've actually done. So, in January of last year we published a common antibiotic manufacturing framework. It's published; it's on the website that's at the bottom of the page. And what this does really is codifies what I believe is to be good sound environmental practice. It's not rocket science, but it is good practice, and it's there for not only our guidance but for anybody that wants to use it. It lays out what we expect at our sites, but also, really importantly, in our supply chains, so obviously it talks about auditing of our supply chains so that we ensure suppliers that we use in our supply chains are manufacturing responsibly. I believe adherence to the framework will drive the selection and use of appropriate suppliers, and there is some room for improvement in that space, just to be candid. If you take me to the next slide, please. We've also developed ahead of time the discharge targets that I spoke about, so we published in September of last year a list of discharge targets for over a hundred antibiotics. We shared our industry data on eco-toxicity of the antibiotics that -- between the companies we make, and we've published those data. So, those are typically what we call the environmental discharge targets, the predicted no-effect concentrations based on traditional eco-toxicity, and then we've reviewed the state of the literature, the current literature, and we have opted to use the minimum inhibitory concentration that is published by Larson et al. based on clinical data. So, this is really an indicator of resistance. It's not a true measure of resistance. So, we have side by side now a list of antibiotics, the predicted no-effect concentration, environmental predicted no-effect concentration -- MIC -- and we -- our position is that companies should use the lower the two numbers so that we can be protective of both the environment and of any risk of development of resistance. So, these are available to anybody, again, on the website. We are also publishing a peer-reviewed paper which should come out later this quarter, actually, which will talk to more of the science behind the methods that we chose to use. I should just add that these limits are, you know, typically in the parts per billion range. These are exceedingly low concentrations, and it will take industry time and money to meet these targets over time, but our commitment is to get there. If you could just take me to the next slide, please. So, what I want to stress is that the industry Alliance is part of the solution. We've made commitments, and we're delivering on those commitments individually as companies but collectively as an organization. So, we've published the framework; we've published limits -- discharge targets, we call them -- and we will publish our progress reports in January of 2020. So, those of you that may be familiar with the Alliance may remember we published a report in January of 2018 sort of outlining where we were at then across the range of areas that the Alliance addresses, not just manufacturing. We will -- intend to produce a report in January 2020 which will show you progress against the various commitments that the Alliance has made, including meeting our manufacturing framework and our discharge target commitments. I do believe strongly that widespread adoption of the framework in particular beyond the current Alliance members will be a significant step in minimizing the presence of antibiotics in the environment -- in the local environment to manufacturing facilities, and it will minimize the risk of the selective pressure on resistant organisms which net -- should help reduce the risk of antimicrobial resistance developing and spreading. So, if you just move into my final slides. So, in terms of considerations, I did look at the latest version of the National Action Plan. I didn't really see anything addressed the manufacturing issue here in the United States. It's definitely prevalent in other national action plans. I do think, though, that here in the United States that we could stimulate and fund more research to better understand the nature of any linkage between the presence of antibiotics in the environment and clinically relevant antimicrobial resistance, because there is nothing that really proves that yet. There are plenty of hypotheses. And I also think that we should examine the relative contribution between agriculture, hospital discharges, manufacturing wastes, et cetera, and armed with that knowledge, we could target our resources to most appropriately address the issue. I do also think that in the public arena we should look at technologies that may take antibiotics out of waste streams, even in publicly owned treatment plants, because, as I've already said, the majority of antibiotics in the environment, particularly in the United States, would not be coming from manufacturing itself. So, my final ask is that we work with the other governments, and it's already been said today, to make sure that other governments implement their national action plans, because effective implementation of their national action plans will greatly help the United States address the risks here at home. And I'll just finish with the final slide. Industry is part of the solution, so please continue to engage us. We have a lot of knowledge and expertise which we're willing to share. You know, there is a challenge between balancing access, because many more people die from lack of access to antibiotics than from antimicrobial resistance, so we need to be able to have access to affordable antibiotics, and then increasing the manufacturing expectations and likely the costs of antibiotics. And we need to engage governments and international organizations, and we stand ready to help. Thank you.  Lonnie King: Dr. Brooks, thank you very much. So, our final panelist this afternoon, Dr. Elaine Hamm from Ascend BioVentures, will address the topic of Realities and Challenges of Pharmaceutical Development. Dr. Hamm?  Elaine Hamm: Thank you and thank you for having me here. Unlike my colleagues here, who are here for their successes, I am here because of my failures. Also, that was the one joke of my talk, so I hope you enjoyed it. [laughter] Next slide. When they first approached me, they thought I had two companies in developing infectious disease products, but in the time that they heard about me and the time that they called me, those two companies had failed, and I asked if I could talk about the realities of drug development. And we have all heard the statistics -- startups are hard; developing drugs is hard; infectious disease drugs are particularly hard to develop -- but I wanted to give you an idea of the reality of what it's like to be a startup in this particular area. Next slide. Okay, so hunker down. This is the important slide, but my husband informed me this is the most boring slide, so bear with me. There's a lot of really great things about being in a startup company. I have spent most of my career in a startup company either as a scientist, I've been on the investment side, and now I serve as the head of a pharmaceutical accelerator company where we serve as the management team for a portfolio of early-stage companies. It's a great environment to be in because we're head of R&D, and I'm also the legal department, and we can move contracts through very quickly. So, we, unlike other organizations where it might take months -- we're the speedboat where some are the cruise ship, so there's a lot of advantages. In addition, I am the little guy in the sense that I am not in Boston, and I'm not in San Francisco or Silicon Valley. I'm in Oklahoma, the Midwest. There's a lot of really great reasons to do drug development where I'm at. We have a number of state incentives and state organizations such as OCAS and i2E that are particularly invested in helping pharmaceutical startup companies, and that has helped us even get federal funding. So, SBIR grants, CDMRP grants. They have been incredibly helpful. It's actually easy for me to raise a $2 million Series A round, whereas my colleagues in Boston and San Francisco have problems, so much so that they actually have me license their technology to Oklahoma so I can raise that series A. It's cheaper in Oklahoma; our land and our labs are cheap, but quite frankly, we can do science anywhere. Most of our companies are virtual, so we can do science at contract research organizations, very easily enabling me to run a microbiology lab in North Carolina from the comfort of my home in Oklahoma. But there's a bad side of being in the center of the U.S. in that we're isolated. Where we can do science anywhere, it is challenging to do business development. You have to go pound on doors, you have to be where the companies are at, and that takes time, and it takes money. And the amount of money that it takes to go to JPMorgan that was here a few weeks ago could pay for one or two technicians' monthly salary, and so we have to make the decision of whether we want to do business development or if we want to do science and have to make those choices. And then there's the ugly. Funding -- I mean, we all have this problem -- lack thereof, or just plain slow -- and I'll get into that in the next few slides -- and experienced management. Unfortunately, in the startup world we have a lot of hungry, excited scientists and young entrepreneurs, but they are young and don't often have the experience to run a business or do drug development. And finally, there's also some discrimination issues. I have learned -- I'm a pretty decent grant writer, and I have learned that if I want to get a grant funded that I have to find the oldest guy in the company and put him as the principal investigator, and that way I can get the grant funded. I mean it's sad but true, and that's a problem. The NIH funds a lot of scientists, but less than 1.6 percent are under the age of 36, and that is an issue. That's not just the NIH; that's a lot of other funding organizations. The equity funding of last year -- 76 percent went to all-male founding teams and not female-founding teams, so it's a problem across the board. I don't have a solution for it; I'm just stating these are some of the issues that we've experienced personally. Next slide. But as I thought about this issue of why we failed time and time again, the issue was time of funding, of experimental, and of deal timelines. Next slide. This is a very busy slide, but for a reason. This is a snapshot of one of our companies, Synereca, and what we went through in the past year of trying to get grants. Those of you in academia, this is not unfamiliar. You know the issues of when you want to get funding -- if you want to get -- if you run out of money in June, you better start planning in October. The same thing for us in the startup area. Equity is no different. If you want to start a deal -- if you get investment, which is also a big challenge of getting a venture capitalist to even listen to you about your infectious disease product, it can still take quite a bit of time just to get the funding. And as I mentioned, it can be expensive just to do the business development aspect of this. Next slide. Overlay the issue of experimental timing. We had -- one of our companies had in-house chemistry and an in-house animal facility. This gives you an idea of what it takes to do one experiment. Obviously, we're doing a lot of experiments at the same time, not just one at a time. If we wanted to outsource, we have to add time. And I have to say the NIH has a lot of really great free resources that we have utilized to do our experiments, but again, it just takes time. When you work with large company CROs, we had one that took -- it was supposed to take three months; it took us seven months. By then, I was the only one working at the company, so kind of a sad day to receive data. Next slide, please. These are two examples of the company's infectious disease that were in our portfolio. We had Synereca and Pamlico, and both had really great early-stage data. One of them was actually a finalist for CARB-X, which, by the way, is an amazing program. I highly hope that everyone continues to support that program. We have great investment from local investors. With Synereca, it was a little bit too early-stage, I think, for a startup company, but we ended up in this weird funding purgatory where we were either too early or too late, leaving us in this gray zone. We also had differing feedback from different large pharma companies of "if you just did this, then we'll be interested," and then someone has a completely different list, and so that kind of left us struggling to prioritize what we needed to spend our time on. With Pamlico, it more suffered from a business development issue. It was highly specific, but that meant a very limited patient population. It was an antibody therapeutic, which made some -- the manufacturing costs go up in terms of cost, and so pitching that business case was actually very challenging for us. So, two examples of two companies that could have almost made it but did not. With Pamlico, we had great in vivo data, but the next round for us was $5 million to $8 million, and it didn't make sense for us to carry on with that, because we didn't have any partners to help us, and no venture capitalists to help fund us. So, next slide. Are these challenges that we all have? Yes. This is not just for infectious disease startups. Money, resources, management -- all of those are challenges across the board in startups in general. But I have found in our portfolio infectious disease was particularly challenging. We have diabetes, hearing loss --we're currently working on a fatty liver disease technology that has no proof of efficacy, and people are clamoring to work with us, and that's a problem. We have a lot of people that are interested in other markets other than infectious disease, not just from pharma, but also in the venture capital world. They want to invest in things that are going to make them a 10X return, not a 2X return, and that makes it challenging. Next slide. So, not to beat a dead horse with a dead horse, but these are the things that, if I could have a wish list, this would be it. Having large pharma. I know large pharma is sort of -- can be a negative term, but, frankly, we need them. It's not going to be a company of me and another guy getting a drug approved; it's going to require a collaboration with large partners including pharma as well as venture capitalists to be incentivized to actually invest in companies and invest in antibiotic drug development. We need innovative new business models to help address this issue. Oklahoma -- we're very invested in drug development, and that's why many -- multiple partners have invested in the pharmaceutical accelerator concept to help address some of the issues of early-stage drug development, particularly in infectious disease. And more importantly, also, support for us little guys, not just from a startup but in the rest of the country, too. So, thank you.  Lonnie King: Very good. Thanks very much. So, we can now open up for questions, so, Marty, did you want to start? And we'll go from there.  Martin Blaser: All right. I have a couple of questions, but I'll just ask one for starters. Dr. Hamm, thank you for coming here and telling us your story, or stories. And you told us a lot of daunting things; you said one thing that caught my attention, which was that CARB-X was very good for you.  Elaine Hamm: It was.  Martin Blaser: Can you tell us why? What was it about CARB-X that was helpful to you? So that maybe we can learn from that model.  Elaine Hamm: Yeah, absolutely. So, it was multi-stage so that you didn't have to spend time writing a 100-page application. You could, you know, stage it out. So, that was helpful just from a logistics standpoint. But they were willing to take risks, and risk is where the innovation happens. They didn't want same old, same old; they didn't want "me too's." They were interested in looking at things that probably sounded a little crazy, and that's great for us that are trying to help create new innovative drugs. They were very helpful throughout the process and guiding us through the application process as well. That was really helpful. And frankly, from an investment standpoint, and from a partnering standpoint, it was incredibly helpful for me to say to a potential partner or investors that we were CARB-X finalists. Just those words alone were the validation we needed to get our foot in the door.  Lonnie King: Kent?  Kent Kester: So, once again, great presentations. Thanks very much. For Dr. Tawil -- so I think we all see the value, and the need, in fact, of different approaches to the treatment of bacterial infections, antibiotic-resistant or not. We know that bacteriophages were used in the U.S. until the antibiotic era, and unfortunately much of the experimental data is in Russian, or perhaps now more recently in Georgian. But, you know, it seems to me that the punitive value in bacteriophages are sort of this idea of cocktails that can sort of treat a lot of different things, especially in mixed infections, and the idea that you may be able to customize the components of these cocktails, you know, for specific infections. But that really raises a regulatory challenge, and so I'm just curious, as, you know, we're -- you know, part of our -- well, really, our goal here, our mission, is to help advise the government, you know, in terms of strategies going forward. You know, given what I see as pretty significant regulatory challenges to getting a bacteriophage cocktail, you know, or, you know, admix cocktail that occurred -- that's done based on particular infections, how do you see the regulatory environment specifically for use in humans?  Nancy Tawil: Absolutely. So, I think that a few years ago you could say that we weren't really too sure what regulatory looked like for a bacteriophage product, but in recent years I think that the FDA, especially CBER, has really given us guidance for all of the companies that work in the phage environment. And so, pertaining to cocktails, we have the option of making those cocktails and then swapping out bacteriophages from cocktails -- taking out one bacteriophage, replacing it with another -- just by submitting very strong CMC data, genomics data, to the FDA. So, I think that the FDA is extremely open to the idea of bacteriophages, and they have been helping us a lot throughout the regulatory pathway.  Lonnie King: Helen?  Helen Boucher: Thanks so much and thanks for great talks. I wanted to just comment on a couple of things. So, Dr. Hamm, I really appreciated your comments and just wanted to pick up on a couple of things. Your comment about early-stage companies having less experience in development -- that has been heard, and I think we've heard from colleagues there's been a number of FDA workshops, and both BARDA and GARDP in Europe have collaborated to have a number of these workshops to help with the basics, from the early discovery to first in humans and those kind of things, which I think is a great step, and we hope to see more of. And we heard about CARB-X being a great push incentive, which is terrific. The challenge now is on the pull side, and we have a paper in press looking at the IDSA's 10 by 20 initiative, and the good news is there are 10 new systemically available anti-infective antibiotics before the year 2020. The bad news is that we might not have them because the companies are doing so poorly. They're at risk of going bankrupt, and as of yesterday for the five companies, the stock price -- Melinta, $0.88; Tetraphase, $1.15; Achaogen, $1.76; Nabriva, $1.94. So, that's four under $2.00, and one, Nabriva, $6.50. Compare that to Big Pharma that are on the orders of $40 to $60 to $80. And we know that large pharma has largely left the space, so the need for pull is huge. And I just wanted to circle that back to the stuff about antibiotic discharges that Dr. Brooks talked about, because it's really great that Pfizer and others are leading the way in this, but when we look at what the -- where the antibiotics are being developed, it's by little, tiny companies who are struggling. And so, I really worry, and I just want to raise for the committee about how we're going to manage things like discharge and residues in really struggling companies going forward.  Steve Brooks: So, maybe just, if I could, I'll put the record straight. First of all, I appreciate the honorary doctorate, but it's Mr. Brooks, just for the record [laughs]. No, thank you. So, the Alliance includes BIO, which is the trade association for the, you know, biologics companies, and we have been talking with BIO about the need to consider the manufacturing aspects as, when, and if companies get to that stage. So, you know, they're aware, and there's receptivity. Obviously, they've got to get to that stage first. And again, we're available to share our knowledge and expertise with those companies as, when, and if they get to that to that stage. So -- but I hear your concern, because at the end of the day all of this takes expertise and money.  Lonnie King: Sir?  Locke Karriker: I'd like to say thanks to the panel for the information and direct this question to Dr. Watts. You mentioned public-private collaboration. Could you expand on exactly what those are as two broad groups there? Is that pharma and universities, or what groups do you think have the most potential for synergy, and what are the characteristics of those groups that will make more of those synergies happen?  Jeff Watts: Well, I think there's a couple of different synergies there, but maybe mainly it is a lot of early research is coming out of universities, and many of the university scientists really lack the experience. We see the same thing in the startups. They're very enthusiastic, but they lack the experience in order to understand what they need to be doing. And they also don't realize that they may work on something for five or 10 years to finally have a lead candidate to deliver to us, and it takes us another eight to 10 years to get to market. So, they're 20 years -- we have 15- to 20-year cycle times, end of discussion. I mean, that's the thing we need to think about. And so, it's being able to put those two groups together, where you draw upon the experience of people who've actually taken products to market and connect them with those early lead compounds. And I'll give you a good example; it goes to a question that was -- the previous question, is you need to think about your differentiators first. You know, everybody's focused in human health on activity against escape pathogens; in animal health, it's all alternatives. I had a conversation with a person in a startup one time that -- and I said, "So, what your market differentiator?" and they said, "We're not a traditional antibiotic." And I said, "Okay, let's fast-forward eight years. You come to market. There are five other compounds on the market; they're all alternative antibiotics. What's your differentiator?" Dead silence for 30 seconds, then, "We never thought of that." You'd better build in your market differentiation upfront; you better understand how you're going to be separated from everyone else. And that's part of that experiential piece that comes from the companies that can be delivered into universities. It can also be used in teaching and mentoring around some of the startups. I like the CARB-X model and the fact that you have a resident expert who can actually interact with the companies early on to help them troubleshoot some of their issues. So.  Lonnie King: All right, Sara, now.  Sara Cosgrove: Thanks to all the speakers for great talks. I have a question for Mr. Brooks [laughs]. There are a lot of different antibiotics. What classes are you most worried about in terms of affecting the environment? And then, in light of Helen's comments, what kind of studies do you think would be effective in figuring out, you know, which classes are the worst and whether they are also impacting human and animal health?  Steve Brooks: So, I think I need to be Dr. Brooks to answer the second question, so I'm probably not best-placed to answer the question. I mean, at the moment, we have applied our approach and our philosophy to all the antibiotics that we make across the board. The discharge targets that we've published obviously have -- you know, they're specific to a compound, so they're all numerically different based on the criteria that I explained before. So, I don't know that I could tell you that there's a particular class of antibiotic that we're most concerned about. I mean, what we're concerned about, to be candid, is the -- first of all, we don't want to cause environmental harm, and secondarily, you know, we really don't wish to be in the spotlight for this issue when what we're trying to do is provide antibiotics to alleviate pain and suffering. And you know, some of the reports that you may have seen, you know, don't present very nice pictures of, you know, the manufacturing process, particularly in some of the emerging markets. So, there's a big kind of optics issue around. It doesn't look great, and we want to address that. It doesn't really matter, to me at least, which antibiotic is being made. It needs to be made in a responsible manner, and we need to make sure that any discharges are properly managed and at levels that we believe would not cause environmental harm or resistance. So, we don't -- somebody can probably tell you more scientifically whether certain classes might be of more concern than others, but, you know, we're basing it on our environmental management principles, which apply across the board, and then the specific targets that we will sort of chase down to.  Lonnie King: Marty?  Martin Blaser: I wanted to ask a question, and I forgot to congratulate everyone on their nice talks, too. So, thank you. I wanted to ask Nancy Tawil a question about -- really, two questions. One is you mentioned that you have the capacity to make 70,000 liters of phage. That sounds like a lot, but on a national scale it's probably not that much at five MLs per dose per day. So, I guess one question is about scale-up. And the second question is, with your AgriPhage, you've -- it's been -- you've been using it already. What can you tell us about your actual experience on the emergence of resistance?  Nancy Tawil: Sure, two great questions. So, we are producing in Salt Lake City very large quantities of bacteriophages for agriculture. When we think about scaling up CMC for humans, that becomes challenging, and I think there are not too many companies out there that have the resources in order to be able to produce bacteriophages on a large scale or have a GMP manufacturing facility in order to produce bacteriophage products for humans. And so, what we did for the products that are going into Phase I clinical trials -- we have partnered with the Canadian research National Research Council in Montreal, so we have human health facilities in Montreal, and we've partnered with the Canadian government in order to have a GMP-like production of those bacteriophages for Phase I. Now, when we're looking at Phase II, we either need to build our own GMP manufacturing facility or partner with another group, but there are -- they only have very small-scale fermenters, and so scaling up is a little bit difficult for humans. We do not have any problems with the scale-up for agriculture or the scale-up in China. So, that's for the scale-up. And I think, for the AgriPhage, you are talking about resistance, and so we have not seen since 2005 resistance in the field for the AgriPhage product. I know from my colleagues who work on that that what they do is they take -- they have samples from greenhouses, from fields all over the United States, and they know exactly what strain is resistant in each one of these places, and they build very large libraries of bacteria, but also of bacteriophages. And if ever they feel that one of the bacteriophages in the cocktail needs to be replaced by another bacteriophage that is effective, they can also switch that bacteriophage, update their formulation, and make sure that the phage cocktail is effective. A strategy that we are using in order to prevent the emergence of resistance is to make sure that whatever bacteriophages that we are putting in the cocktail have a sort of synergy, so each bacteriophage must have some different properties from the other bacteriophage. And so, when you have this big cocktail that target the bacteria in very different places, then you reduce the incidence of resistance. And although we are seeing resistance in the lab in vitro, we have not seen it a lot in the fields. We haven't seen it in the fields in our hands.  Martin Blaser: I wonder if I could just ask for a clarification. So, you said that you haven't seen resistance in the field. Or is it that you haven't seen resistance that you can't overcome by substitution of a new phage?  Nancy Tawil: We have not seen resistance to our bacteriophages in the field.  Martin Blaser: Good. Thank you very much.  Lonnie King: Okay, I have a quick question for Dr. Watts, and then we have three more to kind of finish. So, Dr. Watts, I can appreciate your emphasis on innovation and discovery. I'm concerned about the number of companies that are kind of deciding not to stay in this space at all. That can't be a good thing over time. So, what do you see over the next five or 10 years in terms of discovery, innovation? More consolidation? Or what's going to happen in this space, and how do we actually improve it?  Jeff Watts: So, I think you're exactly right. We're seeing fewer companies playing in this space in both animal health and human health. I think we're going to see more and more innovation coming from the startups. I think we need to assist the startups and academics in terms of getting past those early innovation phases. You know, get them across the valley of death, get them into development, but we also need to have that partnership where we're mentoring those companies. Then there has to be a partnership with the bigger companies that have the infrastructure to actually do the development work and actually have the know-how of how to take a compound from a lead candidate out to an approval. And so, I think that's going to be the model that we're going to see more and more of, is more and more things coming in through the startups. There will be more mentoring early on in that public-private relationship type of opportunity, and then, once that happens, they'll transition into a traditional pharma process. I think in terms of the regulatory process, you know, the Big Pharma companies certainly know how to bring something into a regulated status, and they have the experience there with people in regulatory groups to do that. I think right now the thing that I see is FDA has given us the flexibility and has provided innovation groups to allow us to develop these novel products, so I think that's to our advantage, and I think we'll see more interactions with the regulatory agencies early on in order to have those discussions around what those regulated products and regulatory pathways need to look like in order to bring those compounds to market.  Lonnie King: Thanks very much. Kathy?  Kathryn Talkington: Thanks. Thanks, all of you, for great presentations. I wanted to ask Elaine -- a little bit, sort of, building off of Ellen's [sic] comment -- or Helen's comment -- on incentives for development of antibiotics. As was talked about, as you're well aware, and as many in the room are aware, there are lots of conversations going on about what a pull incentive could be, what's going to be meaningful to help keep companies -- small companies; large companies -- in the business of making antibiotics. Do you have any particular thoughts on what a pull incentive -- a meaningful one -- would look like, or, in your conversations with VCs, what sort of indication would be helpful on that front? Thanks.  Elaine Hamm: Yeah, of course. It's -- I wish I had the all-encompassing answer for that. It's going to be a challenge for a while. I mean, you talked about Achaogen, and their stock prices fell, and that happened after they got a drug approved. That is bonkers. I mean -- and then you have Alzheimer's, where people hit the same target again and again and have failure, and people are still claiming to get in. In infectious disease, it's the opposite problem. I hate to say it: drug pricing might be something to consider, but that's a very sticky subject these days. But as we -- that's one way to have some pull incentives. Venture capitalists, maybe out of the good of their heart [laughs] -- a venture capitalist with a heart? Okay, that's a bit of a [laughs] -- sorry if there's anyone in the room -- sorry, sorry [laughs]. But it's -- yeah, they have to be convinced to make less of a return versus the larger return, but you have companies that invest in -- there's a C. diff vaccine that's in Phase II that can't get into Phase III, not because they're not successful in their Phase II; it's because they can't raise that kind of cash. I wish I had an answer, but, yeah, we're kind of stuck.  Lonnie King: Paula?  Paula Fedorka-Cray: Thanks for the nice talks. Mr. Brooks, you talked about a hundred companies in the AMR Alliance. I assume that this includes generic -- manufacturers of generic drugs, too?  Steve Brooks: It does, yeah.  Paula Fedorka-Cray: And is there a difference between what we might see as far as compliance or problems with generic manufacturers versus those of brand quality?  Steve Brooks: Well, I'll answer the question first based on membership of the Alliance, because I think there's a broader question in there. But in terms of membership of the Alliance, our generic manufacturers have made the same commitments as, for example, Pfizer has made great. So -- and I work every month with the EHS leaders from those companies as we've, you know, developed these materials I've shared today. So, there should be no difference in terms of the commitments that we've made, and we'll be reporting our progress. I do think that the broader question is -- you know, it's challenging when antibiotics are, you know, a large part of the generic -- and Pfizer makes generic medicines as well --  Paula Fedorka-Cray: Sure.  Steve Brooks: -- so this commonly applies to generic manufacturers generally. I think we need to all look at, you know, what the expectation is for what we'll pay for antibiotics. So, the industry is largely -- not completely, but largely -- outsourced to generic manufacturers in emerging markets. Again, not completely. And of course, those markets don't have -- and we already heard about in other conversations -- they don't have the infrastructure that you might expect for sanitation, for waste management. They don't have the norms around some of the industrial practices that we have learned through experience in the United States and in Europe are important to protect in our society. So, there are some challenges there for sure, and there's 15 manufacturers in the Alliance, and even if we all met our commitments completely, the problem would not go away. So, part of my mission is to encourage further promulgation of the work that we're doing, whether it's through the Alliance, which would be great, but we've published our materials. We encourage other groups, other trade associations, to adopt the materials that, you know, we've developed.  Paula Fedorka-Cray: That was one of the most tactful answers I've ever heard [laughs].  Steve Brooks: There you go.  Paula Fedorka-Cray: Thank you.  Lonnie King: David?  David White: Thanks, Lonnie, and thank you all for your presentations as well. I'd like to make a comment and a question to Jeff. My comment is, moving from FDA to the university, I've seen a culture of entrepreneurship among many of our faculty, and I'm very interested in this space, and I think it is across this country, but there is no guidebook to help them right now. It's like being a parent. You know, "Here you go. How are you going to raise a kid?" I wish someone had given me a book. But these guys are lost a little bit, and they have no idea what they should be doing for experimentation or even to start down the road of the exploration of a new therapeutic, a new diagnostic, and so forth. So, that would -- I've heard that, and I see that now. My other question -- Jeff, in particular, for you -- have you seen synthetic biology applications coming into this innovation space yet, or do you think it's a couple of years away?  Jeff Watts: So, thanks for the comment. I really think that what you'll find is that there are companies out there -- you know, first of all, there are individuals that have left the pharmaceutical industry and now have set themselves up to be able to provide some of that consulting and mentorship. But I think there are also companies out there that are willing to mentor the right opportunities into their system, and that's one of the things I've been an advocate for in my company, is that we should be willing to mentor some of the startups so that we can bring some of these leads forward. Synthetic biology. I've -- we've looked at it a bit. There is a little bit of activity in the space, but I think we're still a couple of years off before we really see those sorts of applications.  Lonnie King: Okay. So, I think there are no more questions right now, so join me in thanking this excellent panel. [applause]  Female Speaker: Produced by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services at taxpayer expense. 