 Tiny ML, effectively tiny machine learning, it's an extremely fast growing field of machine learning and it's about doing machine learning at the extreme end point right where the data sits, and it's about doing it on a device where the sensors are actually getting data. So, you can think of this in the context of vision, audio, biomedical applications, anything that's got like an accelerometer. So, anything that's got a sensor and it's being able to take that sensor data in real time and processing it right there. So, some of the existing applications of Tiny ML are things that you and I already take for granted, and we don't even think about it. For example, when I say, “Hey Siri”, or when you say, “Okay Google” or when you say, “Alexa” the key difference is that today's systems are kind of plugged into the wall, but imagine if you had a collection of these really smart, ideally biodegradable, machine learning sensors need to just sprinkle everywhere. For example, more forward-looking things are like smart manufacturing, agriculture. Imagine when you're putting a seed into the soil right on a giant farmland. Imagine putting a smart seed along with it. A tiny little seed that you put in, that's actually collecting and analyzing characteristics about what the soil conditions are. You can imagine the possibilities. You get much better crops, for instance. You can help with conservation, and people are using Tiny ML to help with wildlife conservation. For instance, places where you can't really have people go and constantly monitor things. We can have these tiny little things that can last for a year, for instance. The Tiny ML certificate program is basically meant to help people understand how to actually build Tiny ML applications, because most of the people who have done machine learning, for instance, would not be able to survive in the Tiny ML ecosystem. The reason is, because it's a completely different beast. It's extremely constrained, so you need to fundamentally think differently. 