 The Latvian company Getlini EKO manages the largest municipal solid waste landfill in the Baltic States. Recycling the biodegradable waste materials produces biogas which is burned to produce electricity. The heat produced as a byproduct is used in the Getlini EKO greenhouses. Getlini EKO is one of the most modern greenhouses in the world; and the first greenhouse in the world to implement LED lighting for growing cucumbers. This greenhouse is built based on the research that was done in the Warsaw University where we started to perform tests with LEDs and with cucumber. And then in 2017 Getlini decided that they're gonna build the first greenhouse in the world with 100% LED for cucumber growing. This greenhouse is 3000 square meters. We have 3,56 plants per square meter, We grow the variety Petrifin Nunhems. The first years after the LED installations, the yield increase did not meet expectations. Initially it was hard to understand why. We were trying to find the right balance between temperature and air humidity to get the necessary plant transpiration. That was the main problem – because the plant was transpirating less than necessary. and to answer the question why we cannot get the desired yield. We wanted to find out all the underlying mechanics and plant behaviour to find out what we could improve. We looked at all available solutions at the time. We went through all the available on the market and we came to the conclusion that Aranet is the best from what we could choose. Thanks to Aranet we were able to see how the plant is behaving and how it is reacting in the greenhouse environment. We were able to see when we need to light when we need to irrigate; when we need to remove the leaves. So we were able to put the plant in balance. We were able to find the limits how far we can push the plant In the first two years we were harvesting around 66 kilos Now in the same period of time we have harvested already 80 kilos We will continue for another 6 weeks And we are planning to harvest around 100 kilos per square meter. We are using almost all the sensors which are created for the plant monitoring. Most of what we see the added benefit from is the PAR sensor and scales. Aranet offers the best price/performance ratio. We can get all the sensors within one infrastructure and we don't need to implement it in any other system. All data are available on one place and we can easily analyze it. The installation is really easy. It's almost plug-and-play. You install the battery, put the name on the sensor and place where you need it, and it's done! It's easy to install and easy to run, and easy to understand. I would recommend other greenhouse owners to try Aranet. Aranet is an eye-opener, and you can see and you can measure what you never have been able to see before. Aranet – supporting sustainable horticulture and making environmental monitoring wireless. 