 Welcome to Human Endeavours, today we will be exploring the promises of the near future. We will be looking at some of the most interesting Tech which is already in the beginning stages or will be available to us in 10-20 years. 5-Hologram communication Although we can make pretty realistic holograms, futuristic solutions might cause all real-life communication to cease. Imagine transferring your entire consciousness to a hologram displayed on the other side of the world. Presence will no longer be required. Some particularly ambitious experts claim that we will be able to integrate the holographic image with our senses and feelings. 4-Omnipotent translation software Translation software is making impressive strides in recent years, but what’s the ultimate goal? With the development of software that can understand everything, there will be no stopping multiculturalism. Visualize an app that can scan the speaker or piece of text with a complete understanding of the situation, as well as the context. It would have to be an AI powerful enough to learn an entire language in a matter of nanoseconds 3- Untraceable networks This future technology has some grim connotations to it. Some experts predict that government control over the internet will urge people to create cutting-edge architectural solutions for unbreakable encryption. Citizens under dictatorial regimes will actively participate in the secret network. We can expect more independence, but also an increase in illegal online activities. 2- Nanomedicine Laser surgeries have been a revelation in the field of surgical procedures, but what if we went further? In the future, doctors won’t actively participate in surgeries, as surprising as it sounds. For every condition, there will be a special group of biodegradable nanobots injected into the patient’s body. They will perform surgeries, treat diseases, eradicate cancer and then self-destruct. 1- Neurohacking Many degenerative neurological diseases still plague the humankind. We still haven’t solved the problem for one main reason – we can’t manipulate nerves. When neurologists and neurosurgeons understand nerves and their functions better, we might be looking at real-life hacking. Imagine having neurons simply reactivated after a car accident and not suffering any damage at all. When this happens, you can expect mental dexterity during the entire lifespan. Thanks for Watching the Video, I hope you enjoyed it and learned something new. Subscribe to the channel for more daily interesting information. 