 Hello everyone. My name is Hongseok from professor Dayeh’s research group in UC San Diego. In this presentation I will talk about Scalable Tactile Sensor Arrays on Flexible Substrates with High Spatiotemporal Resolution Enabling Slip and Grip for Closed-loop Robotics. As all of you would be familiar with, flexible force sensor array can be used in variety of future applications, including industrial robots, surgical robots or neural prosthetics. In such applications, spatial and temporal resolution of the sensor array is critical to achieve sophisticated movements. The table shows the sensitivity, spatial and temporal resolution of the human hand. Thanks to its superior sensitivitiy and spatiotemporal resolution, human hand can freely interact with arbitrary objects even without watching them. To achieve such a high spatiotemporal resolution, as well as excellent sensitivity, we suggest a transistor which can sense external forces. By combining the functions of force sensing and signal multiplexing into a single element we can circumvent the trade-off between integration density and sensor performance. ZnO thin film transistor can do this job, thanks to its semiconducting and piezoelectric property. The left figure schematically shows the operation of the zinc oxide thin film transistor that we developed. The dual gate structure provides excellent electrostatic control over the channel and the piezoelectricity inside the ZnO allow the TFT to modulate the current when external force is applied. The transfer curves and output curves are shown in the right side of the slide, showing excellent on/off ratio and good Ohmic interface. On the other hand the on current of the TFT quickly responses to the external force as shown in the right side of the slide. The response is proportional to the amount of force which makes the TFT to be a good force sensor. Given the dual functionality of the ZnO ZnO TFT, we developed an active-matrix ZnO TFT array, which will provide a spatially resolved force information. The active matrix structure is superior than passive matrix structure in terms of signal contrast and response speed. The left figure shows the as fabricated TFT array, composed of crossing source and gate electrodes. The inset shows the individual TFT in detail. The electrical connection of the active matrix can be found in the right side of the figure. To achieve best sensitivity and temporal resolution out of the TFT array, we designed the custom controller hardware. This board consists of 16 parallel 2- stage transimpedance amplifiers located at the bottom, which promptly amplifies the current of each rows. The gate controller located at the top switches columns of the array. The signal multiplexer, gain/filter selection stage, and 16 bit ADC converts the analog signal to digital signal. The microcontroller at the right side controls the chips on the board, and transfers data to the control PC. Let's first take a look about the response of the TFT array to normal force. We apply the same 50 mN force to every single TFT and recorded the response. The heatmap plot on the left side shows the response of every TFT in the 8 by 16 matrix, showing uniform sensitivity over the entire array, except one faulty column at the right. The cross-talk matrix on the right shows the correlation between the TFTs of interest and other TFTs, showing low cross-talk between neighboring TFTs. The response curve shown on the right shows the average current change measured over 0 to 150 mN of applied force, showing linear response over the wide range. The sensitivity was 0.0635%/mN, with a linear the error of 4.35%. We also performed a two-point discrimination test, to show the spatial resolution of the TFT array. The distance between each TFT was 2 mm. As the Nyquist theorem suggests, the array was able to resolve the objects distanced by 5 mm, which is larger than twice of the inter TFT distance. The discrimination test of 5 mm is similar level to the human hand. We also investigated the temporal resolution of the TFT array. While many researchers claimed millisecond response time, they were often limited to the single sensor. We measure the response time of the entire array, by doing trial-average of the response over moving objects along 2.5 hertz square-wave trajectory, as shown in the top left. The object applied forces on the top left corner of the array as shown in the left lower left of the slide. The plot on the right shows the position of the force applicator by blue curves and the average current change of the TFT array marked in the red box by black squares. The response exactly follows the position of the force applicator with response time of less than 10 ms. In other words the entire array can respond to the arbitrary force in sub 10 ms. moving on to the ship for sensing, we developed a 3d pillar array to achieve sheer sensation. The pillar array covers the TFT array as shown in the leftmost figure. Each pillar covers 4 TFTs and the pillar transforms the shear force into normal forces as shown in the schematics. The rightmost figure shows how to calculate the shear force on each shear force sensing unit, based on the response of each TFT in the unit. We experimentally investigated the shear force sensitivity using L-shaped probe to apply shear force to the single pillar, as shown in the photo. The response curve on the right shows the response as a function of shear force, showing the linear manner or response. We measure the shear sensitivity of individual pillars and plotted the response. We applied upward and rightward shear forces. The response was uniform over the entire array to upward forces as shown in this slide, and to the rightward forces as shown in this slide. Given excellent normal and shear force sensation, we demonstrated its application to tactile interface. This video shows how TFT array resolves a single or multi touch. The position of fingers on the array, shown in the left side of the slide are well resolved as shown in the response heatmaps on the right. The direction and location of the shear force was also well resolved. The quiver plots on the right side clearly shows the location and moving direction of the finger based on its excellent shear sensation. The most important application of the force sensor array is to construct closed-loop control system with the robotics. We demonstrated this by attaching a TFT array to each finger of the robotic gripper and programming the control system where the gripper moves based on the input of the TFT array. The diagram on the left side shows the flow of the control program which we programmed. This video shows how the gripper holds the egg. The gripper was able to hold a raw egg and kept a certain holding force which is enough to hold the egg, but not as much as to crush the egg. You can see that the gripper holds the egg safely after removing the support. to utilize the shear force sensation, we also demonstrated a slip detection and sleep adjusted grip algorithm. When the gripper is holding an heavy objects it slips and increases the shear force at the interface. By monitoring the change of the shear force, the program puts more weight on the gripper and holds the object with a higher force to avoid further slip. We demonstrated this by performing the grip experiment with and without shear force feedback. Without shear force feedback the baseball kept slipping and the gripper was not able to grip the ball. You can see that the baseball keeps sliding at the interface. On the other hand, with sheer force feedback, there was no slip resulting in secured grip. You can see that gripper securely holds the baseball and the force slightly increased. The plots on the right side show the changes of the numeral and shear force as well as the gripper angle and threshold holding force computed by the algorithm. Another important advantage of this technology is it scalability. Since our technology is fully based on scalable standard vacuum techniques we were able to further down scale the devices using the same fabrication process. The photo on the left side shows the miniaturized TFT arrays. The device can be minimized as small as 1.6 x 1.6 mm2 with pitch of 100 um. The microscope image on the right shows the smallest story that we fabricated. The smallest array provided ultra high spatial resolution. This array was able to pass the two-point discrimination test at the distance of 750 um, and even 500 um, meaning sub-mm spatial resolution. This video shows the real-time operation of our smallest TFT array. There is a one penny coin filmed together at the right, as a size comparison. The highest spatial resolution was demonstrated again by imaging the human hair. In this experiment, we placed a single human hair and TFT arrayed, sandwiched them with glass slides and squeezed and together. The response map showed a linear pattern at the exact location and orientation of the human hair. In terms of shear sensing, we used the same approach using the miniaturized 3D PDMS pillar array. This small PDMS structure was prepared using a laser engraved mold. The 3D PDMS pillar arrays were prepared on 250-um-pitch and 500-um-pitch devices. This video shows the smallest shear force sensor array where a TFT had pitches of 250 um. You can see that the location and direction of the movement of the wooden stick on the array is well resolved as shown in the right side of the video. This video shows the shear sensation more in detail. The transparent plastic rod is sliding over the array. The pillar arrays are being squeezed during the interaction and the shear force response plots on the right is successfully captures the movement Since the devices were fabricated on the polyimide substrates, they were easily released from the host substrate. We investigated the effect of bending to the TFT performance. The plot on the Left shows the change of transfer curves before bending and under different bending radius. The higher bending reduces the maximum current by 2 to 3 %, but the overall trends remained unchanged. On the other hand, the higher bending affected the sensitivity The plots on the right shows the response to 25 mN force as a function of bending radius. The smaller bending radius resulted a higher current change under same force, meaning the sensitivity can be increased by bending the device. We also demonstrated the reliable operation of the TFT array under high bent condition. We rolled the TFT over the plastic rod with the bending radius of 5 mm, as shown in the left photo. Both normal and shear force sensation was well demonstrated by showing it the plots on the right side. We also performed bending cycle test to test the durability of the device. To perform thousands of bending, we used the linear actuator to automate this process. The bending radius was changed from 7 to 2 mm at every bidding cycle. The photo on the right shows the TFT arrays before painting cycles and after 10,000 bending cycles. Some crease were observed on the encapsulating polymer layers. However the devices were fully operational after 10,000 bending cycles. We tested the force response before and after 10,000 cycles and there was no meaningful changes at all. The response over different forces were measured at the 1000, 2000, 5000 and 10,000 cycles, and remains similar indicating that the TFT array can reliably operate with multiple bending cycles. This video shows the application of the sensor array for blood pulse sensation. The array was attached on the wrist where radial artery is located. The temporal response of the TFT array with the strongest response is plotted on the lower left, which shows the typical pattern of the blood pressure. The average response on the lower right clearly shows the different features of pause signals such as systolic pressure p1, late systolic pressure p2, and early diastolic pressure p3. Another application is waterproof operation and flow detection. Here we encapsulated the TFT array with additional 2 um of Parylene-C then tested the array being submerged in the saline solution. The pipet applied the water flow to the array without physical contacts. The response evolution shown in the middle of the slide, clearly shows that the pressure is locally developed on the upper right region of the array for small amount of time window less than 100 ms. The shear force distribution on the right side shows that the direction of the flow will be toward upper right direction. This video shows the slow-motion video of the water flow detection. And this video shows the waterproof operation of the sensor array being submerged in the saline solution. In conclusion, the zinc oxide TFT performed both force sensing and signal multiplexing which allowed integration of active matrix array. The device can record normal and shear force information, simultaneously. Integration with the robotic gripper allowed closed loop control system which can create an arbitrary object and detect shear, and adjusting grip force based on slip detection. Further downscaling achieved best spatial and temporal resolution. The device was fully operational after multiple bending cycles and under curved environments. Demonstrations on pulse sensing or water flow detection promised further application in biomedical devices where high sensitivity and reliable operation in the biofluidic environments are required. I'd like to appreciate the research advisor professor Shadi Dayeh, and we appreciate the support from NSF, NIH, UCSD, the Nano3 cleanroom facility, and Seoul National University. Thank you. 