 Hello my name is Marsha inning name off you experience and one is group I would like to thank you all for your presence today at a conference we are here with professor down we saw professors scientists and half of the center for waste management and center for excellence on energy research at Satyabhama institute of science and technology. Today she will present to us the topic humanity in this disruptive for. Thank you professor down for accepting our invitation it's a pleasure to be with you here today. Before we start I would like to remind you all if you have any comments or questions please contact professor brown right email it will be showing on the screen at the end of our presentation. He's professor down you may start now. Thank you very much monthly kind introduction. I am very much grateful to you for having given me the opportunity to just interact with the people who are interested to see the humanity water to drink for the humanity in this destructive work. As it says is humanity in this respect words before I begin I would like to mention my E. L. gratitude to our management who has always been. Driving force in encouraging research that can bring about some societal benefits. My special mention of thanks to Dr D. Shashi Prabha vice chancellor also give online through science and technology as well as brief as it should not be neat and professor your preteen who have been very instrumental in connecting both of us to get. So as I just finished my acknowledgments do you the people who are around me I would just like to begin my presentation which is what it is destructive work. Madam 19 should use 3 he's changing his role as a professor of for the center for waste management and I'm also part of central Texans for energy. So I just like to begin with this coat of Louis posture says. 9 no country because knowledge belongs to humanity and the torch which illuminates the work. So hello even the full I actually entered into the corner of my presentation I would just like to reason of would just like to bring to your kind attention or of draw your attention to words how I get connected with this presentation. So my educational qualification you read their name will be etched in terms of the amount mined from online listing and B. tech from the university of Missouri. I was into academy core economic where I just didn't teaching hello 2001 and I started doing the research since I completed my PhD in 2010 I was given the opportunity by a folder chancellor Dr GPR will give me an opportunity to of course you might research with the designation of scientist in the center for waste management and I still still I mean I you go to a live agent as a scientist E. which I presently or. End up as a part of my academic profile late completed all right I DO handy oak undergraduate grad classes in chemical engineering and post graduate classes in environmental engineering since 2001 and consecutively for the environmental engineering course from 2003. I am a research supervisor for undergraduate students and postgraduate researchers PhD scholars in the areas including catalysis biofuel which comprises of biodiesel bioethanol and bio hydrogen in major. I will gonna waste of value added me tedious and wastewater treatment. So what do I do in the research center at the bottom line to the science and technology I operators such agents agencies and government of India funded projects. I opened a pilot scale biodiesel production unit with a focus on process optimize ation and biodiesel properties enhancement. Welcome the characterization of the biodiesel that we make in the bottom 3 we have a pilot unit as I already mentioned that the quality of the biodiesel is closely monitored as we have you will categorize ation vastly differ based management level between. What is the quantity of if you will in terms of real property is the energy contained disasters we also do all of that ideal studies those are 2. Determine the fuel composition using the gas chromatography available but that's easier finding set up where we analyze the composition of biodiesel being weak and gullible or greedy. We also work on the projects because the sea weed India has a very large coastline and of course the line and I'll a lot of sea weed cultivation happens in India and we tried to work on that rejects the US see read that has been already processed for other products pharmaceutical costs make major cost medic applications I use use and the rejects have been identified and we will explore that for that long production we work a lot on the food waste where food waste is directed for bio hydrogen production the characterization of the food waste has been happening for a couple of years and we have tried to modify dived into absorbent which already popularly used in water treatment I'm doing having a biodiesel unit ourselves in the lab we try to use those absorbents synthesized in deliberately from the food waste we tried to use them for treatment of the biodiesel based water that is generated from the block so trying to make the entire process assisting ability 0 discharge process we also work on the development of sensors for the green house gas monitoring which is a major issue upcoming issue and the main cause of this greenhouse gas emissions on the land. Once again waste is a major cause which has a large impact because in India we have landfills and that they are getting in and the incremental ordered and we need to have a control on that we need to have some scenes and engineered of feeling of lands and so we are working on that. The falling coatings for Byfield getting by planes and I let me just such that's happening in the lab or 3 we also work with the society impact what we are trying to help the rural women earn their livelihood by trying to convert the Richmond police for instance takes making. Apart from the research that's happening in Alabama 3 we do a lot of social outreach programs we offer a lot of training programs to the undergraduate postgraduate scholars industrial persons I can emissions water into teaching we conducted workshops and as a bottle invited lectures I am now brought here I missed you to deliver this topic humanity in this destructive work. Without my team I definitely cannot have so much of this is happening on the board I would like to submit my do thanks to Dr Adam Jake was arrested trying to join with us and he is well his area of specialization is energy and environmental engineering the mechanical convolutional pleased by refinery he works a lot in common dioxin sequestration and 0 emission concept waste to energy and the overall based management specialization listeners Miller who is associated with me. Major radio for searches I get a bunch of food production of bioremediation she also works on microbial isolation and you know we do not be any identification antibacterial activities and waste management agent. I don't go wind is another research associate of me. Expertise is on data analytics for environmental applications every week and every week from ambition for biofuel production quality assessment and we have the also another person in the system who has expertise investigators processing wastewater treatment by days of production and characterization. So with that introduction of both me and my team I would like to go along with the presentation I have categorized streamline my presentation in this order would like I will be introducing you to the topic then the aspects of protecting the environment and the mankind. Waste handling and effective measures to protect mankind from the disasters of the east. Welcome to the center for waste management that will have immediate applications to the society as well as the environment implementing technologies without distorting humanity and I will be having my concluding remarks. To begin with. We all know what humanity is and that we are all grieving to be human. So then maybe technologies around us they may be a lot of support of systems that help us. In connecting with each other but basically all of us are humans and we need to be human and tried to implement whatever we tried to build me leave me research or maybe any other field in which we have also seen. We have to connect humanity and they'll all work we have associated. So just don't have a brush up or whatever we are going to talk about in the fuse lights to come. We are trying to be human for what reasons and how are we going to be human is what this lady is talking about humanity means caring for and helping others been able to embed it looked awesome in which we always keep doing. It not only in the times of. Of happiness but in the times of need being human is very very important and such and such a pandemic situation like the cold winter which we had all the entire world is facing well we may be affected that we may not be affected what it would be the reason we are here to help each other so we are trying to be responsive to the impacts that the court would 19 is giving all of us across the globe. Humanity means forgetting our selfish interests at times when others need our help humanity means extending unconditional love each and every living being on. So we know and we have been practicing to be human and that we would remain human when we try to love share and care for each other. This option cannot be predicted but it can be anticipated also if you will agree with me. One can formulate different scenarios for the future in order to create a sense of urgency and educate colleagues. Our own organization about the implications of the disruptive situation. So we when we are going to get affected by the particular scenario it is not bad we alone get affected me also I understand we need to understand that the entire team our entire fellow beings living with us are also getting affected so it is high time or it really means a lot not to be selfish and we try to interact with people not only don't understand what they are up to but try to lend a helping hand who will help them **** all over come in whatever destructive situation the applicant. So this way we try to understand after understanding the different kind of disruptions different captivity of people across the globe are going to be facing are have been facing it is important that we become responsible and we need to actively and research is definitely going to be a way where we can bring out solutions to handle any kind of destructive situation that has been resolved many thank yous ordinances with destruction has happened over the years over the centuries over the decades. People have always tried to implement the skills implemented the acknowledge implemented as such abilities to rescue people from this disruption so that is how humanity has always helped being human has always had to be built to protect one another from destruction. In order to strike back one must identify lead once some shins and opinions will be challenged and there's one 's knowledge is different. So when we are exposed to such a situation where we have to handle any kind of disruption it is important that we need to carry a lot of assumptions we need to you know what to say we need to just a presume that we are in that position and what consequences we would be facing because of the disruption that is cost at that moment we need to handle the situation in such a way we will be in the actor and that is how the others would also expect to react so though we as we do this it would be challenging enough and when we do this we will be able to do what we're gonna do a lot of sense I suspend and even be able to find and where exactly we are lacking and even be able to put ourselves in a position to improvise over knowledge in order to meet the challenging demands that the destruction is going to cost. So definitely need to be able to find that the knowledge gaps that will help us any build a positive mindset so the knowledge gaps that we are facing during the. Commentary assistance on help that you're giving to the people who are really affected by the destruction it should not discourage us it should robin givens a positive nor it should give us a positive mindset that can focus on the bigger love Lispector for a brighter future. So how we are connected with the environment how mankind is connected with the environment what other companies are part of the environment and how we need to protect each other as well as protecting the environment even when the are all coming across a lot of destructive situations this has to be followed this has to be practiced for a better living in this one. So I would just like to bring to your attention the classes are overcrowded with classified the environment before we actually want to understanding the different combinations of the environment and how they are going to be interacting with each other assuming that the we are going to be a mixed audience I'm just trying to give you overview of how the environment is basically classified then we can generally classified environment as a with that being actually and I don't think what some biotech companies being part defect and man made the most powerful and lit on many agents. Basically we can classify environment as being natural and artificial or man made I don't watch any. The company environment I'm a biotic non living and physical activity we have the hydrosphere the little sphere and the atmosphere so all we all are very much familiar to the land the water and the air that are closely associated with the human kind of mankind and how I'm not sure what impact did leave been crossing over the years to all of these. And I mean those of the environment so we have done tremendous damage to the water the law assigned. Hi as well as to the atmosphere. I'm that we need to be responsible enough how we can write and save these biotic competence which have been exposed to the disruption not only caused by the natural calamities but also rather mainly by the actor budget under Progenics souls the man made calamity. This really is a biopic and living and that on manta the living of the companies of the environment we have the bios so why does feel is that portion but we all all living organisms exist coexist area following an ecosystem. Then we have the energy company. And if you feel is important how the interaction from one by arctic system to another spy optic system happens and how each of them transfer the energy levels from one to the other the deal because of transferring the energy how they also accounts for the contamination they have with each other all of it can be understood with the interaction that we have to understand some of the various companies involved in the transfer of energy in the energy company and of the and so overview of this would be the environment can be classified into by arctic living environment of biotech and the need to have a total understanding of the interrelations back the biotech India biopic environment is going to have for a sustainable living and that can help us how destructive situations can be handled in gains off. Any situation that comes those last 2 interlink the saving prospects of both the biotic and abiotic components of the. So discussed in the overview of how my presentation would be we just completed how environment and mind kind of going to be interacting and now I'm actually going to enter into waste. Specific importance is going to be given to the solid waste because that is going to be following a major gap in any of the waste that is generated across the globe and how this is going to be causing impact to the environment would be looked upon at the slight. We get classified solid waste as being hazardous waste and non hazardous waste. On the ready don't be understand that non hazardous waste can be safely handle it without much precaution in the sense it does not need additional R. us specific. Personalized predicted they could they could meant to protect safeguard from the waist rather it needs but limiting your minimal amount of safety come back to the hazardous waste when we go into the hazardous waste it can be glad Lassie fade as a hazardous waste generated from the house and has on his vision in a different industry. Causing more on the non hazardous waste which we tried to handle which we come across day to day because with respect to the hazardous waste category we have authentic people authorized to collect those and other days the people to manage the hazardous waste so this printer non hazardous waste which we come across in a day to be alive only have to handle how we have to or want to see our guide to travel abroad but I'm standing on the lease in order to of the human mind kind of strong waste which is another kind of destruction that is all all the while being generated across. So there may be disruptions natural calamities that happen every now and then that happened over decades all of that happened once and they need. What are the ways that we generated definitely because a lot of destruction to the mankind and this leads that are to come up we are going to be discussing how they can be managed how they can be handled what best practices we can have in order to protect us protect mankind from the waste that we generate us. So based on the classification we see that the non hazardous waste once again they can be classified as of municipal solid waste industrial waste of municipal our non hazardous waste agricultural waste also fall under this category of non hazardous. So I just tried to portray the picture of India we have but definitely a lot of well we is generated and we fall in the category of a developing country and we look into a lot of options with this waste can be managed waste can be used as a result to be converted into value added me TV and or at least we convert waste into energy that will help in sustainable energy use in our own locations so this particular case study can also be taken up and it can be implemented let it let you have a lot of leads generated so we have about 62 millions over 1000000 tons of leads generated and we still have 90000000 tons of these that is not collected I'm I'm I'm the waste collected but we have to be bothered more about the laser does not collect it I'll be have to focus majorly on that that could be eating a lot of disruption to the local existing ecosystem so a lot of research is happening in this area people are trying to work more on the way is there just not collected and how to utilize all of that and I took on board that can be used for making. Well that's the way it is connected with been effective enough to collect and breed although great 20000000 tons of waste the remaining off which however goes to the landfill the result scenario is now the red use this amount and we are trying to do a lot of research and are trying to convert the waste into useful maybe 2 years instead of trying to dump them onto the land from and we also have a lot of options even by the government well we had a big door double up back knowledge Jeez so that they are indigenous technologies for the conversion of waste to energy onto any other value added medium that can be utilized by one of our own commodities. So this is an overview displayed you can just still I used to understand the composition of the municipal solid waste in India we have this as a. Major classifications we have a biodegradable waste people's images this is the portion of the issue we need to explore a lot because this can definitely be capitalized and be converted into goals for making it rather than being dumped into the landfills and being a cause of disruption to the. Why do we have the other real kind of please you also have the recyclables up options of being biodegradable we also have a cat beginning of recycled recyclable waste or recycling of waste that could be recycled but this particular ways can be collected processed and can be reached so this is the option we have about 20 percent off recyclables. We have about 22 percent of inotes that can neither be processed which can either be recycled for reuse so that definitely has to going to land first so the Lankans need to be constructed and engineered plans so that is what the government is also working and we have developed a lot of constructor lives in India. I well I'm not going to waste that still gives a composition others added back to the composition of the ones was on the list. With respect to Chennai alone we have 2 major dump yards 11 tonsil station 320 don't dump trucks haulage trucks 3715 shredding machines we have. 30 mechanical sweepers wheat which had been built up collection off lease and we have about. 11080 full time getting book us this is with respect to India I mean  the district channel. So coming to the non hazardous waste under the non hazardous waste activity we have the most responded with. Of course we are the ones we generated major contributors are the people of the residential location that contributes to 68 percentage of the one that's on the base we have commercial buildings generating another 14 percentage of the world's most wanted list. Well go 5 I mean the contributed by of public calls. Schools educational institutions and we have 2 percentage of the money spent on food waste contributed by the industrial location. So having seen the overview of the different categories of waste and how we have to be cautious about the different types of leads that are generated and of the amount of days that the officers generate we also need to know what the approach that we have to take to handle the least so waste management approach is very very important people are moving to a circular economy when we try to build a generate thank to process we try to recycle or whatever that could be recovered from the waste and be else's. Rather than following the lean on me with we process we generate the waste and even the environment of the audit but rather to contaminate the in. So instead of doing that we have to follow an approach that would help. Technologies out either we will have to develop technologies okay but that would save mankind from the disruptions caused by the way is that we ourselves are generally. So we have kind of do dives all flown them is that you that you see here. So this is the only generally develop solid waste management strategy when you have source reduction happening at the very last one can. After the sources indicated whatever could be recycled water liquid be composted the amount of recycling and composting that happened was. In a proportionately larger percentage. The conversion technologies. What else are developed in this Saturday. I'm finally what went to the line was a major portion so this was how waste management waste management practiced in situations earlier. But there is a partnership that happened in the 20 first century when we focus a lot on sales in addition source segregation happened here so this was possible because of the awareness that was created by the mind going so we tried to connect that we tried to bell. How much of impact waste or how much of this option waste is going to cost to the environment as well as the. So with that approach with that breach shell company and we were able to ordered either the researchers across the globe in fact it shows a list management across the globe they started to. So what does it deliver to people that we can segregate waste at the source that by we can try to reduce the amount of media that can be dropped onto the land. So people started becoming aware of the significant impact waste is going to be generating to the environment do you want the body to the lander to the N. as well as to the mankind at large where you're going to be having a lower bill well contaminants from the list I did present in the waste are generated in the deal because of regulation of the waste Oliver does go on if you're not going to be and getting into the ecosystem where they'd go system is going to be comprising of both biotic and abiotic components. All of the doubling to be affected because of the waste that is generated. I'm sorry introduction. Was trying to I mean the people started instructing aboard a laudable does reduction and people struggled following Seoul's reduction and the segregation of waste at the source. So when this happened the meeting was also believed to be recycled the quantity of material that was collected for recycling was larger the amount of media segregated for composting was larger and the amount of media that could be the diverted on processed food to get either energy or to get any other news media was also also proportionately large so D. O. I'm all of my details that could be recycled and be gone I'm composting what actually. Going from the so does reduction practices that happened so this does reduction actually increased the quantum of material that was available for recycling and composting. Why did the conversion technologies the reviews on the quantum of conversion technologies reviews because we started trying to utilize the waste by recycling their waste and by composting the least. So where is that was brought to technologies for conversion into useful ingredients was definitely less when compared to the earlier methods followed strategies for. So the what do you see here is an inverted the image that the conversion technologies when you're trying to use the conversion technologies are trying to. Use minimal conversion technologies on the waste that is coming after recycling water after being allotted for recycling and composting the remaining quantum off lease that comes to conversion technologies definitely will be consuming a lot of energy it could be an energy intends conversion technology that's going to happen are there but you can also act as the cost of processing thereby the conversion technologies we need to try and use minimal conversion technologies so that the waste is utilized in a better way in recycling and composting. So when practicing all of these we come to a stage when the laughing is completely dead you bought another L. brought to a very minimal one. So that is the strategy that most of the developed countries have already started following the developing countries are following this approach and also that he had a big data user base that by trying to help them I'm kind of from the I mean the disasters caused maybe. What what you need to be followed framework is already being sacked by the management of his Batali list and this is a example given from the environmental protection protection department of Hong Kong which practices effective waste management. So this is the important of that image you are seeing and that is tied up so the only impediment explain to you what the strategies were followed in the 20 first century following the strategies what is that is that is what you see here you have lots of ways to minimize you have videos recovery and recycling off list backtest and we have a budget reduction and the desert the disposal is going to be very very less because of these go followed in the earlier stages. The review is based in the first place is the biography that people have started giving presently they're they're buying you have to promote this scenario the environmental protection department of Hong Kong they have the right to the public by. Giving this option then you'll have the benefit of being less tax when you refuse to waste in the first place. When you're trying to avoid you utilize the landfill contributor more and more I'm going to waste to accommodate in the landfill then you are levied more tax so that is a strategy to follow so use it utilizing the tax payment strategy bill and the environmental protection department of Hong Kong they have tried to implement directional list the following ways tied up keep. Then you have this strategy optimize ation that shifts with time so these effort but maximum done when you are going to be practicing this that is when you try to minimize delays generated and many are practicing to get the least what effort you will be doing well that's what you have to be giving on managing the list at the disposal site will be definitely less. And you will be getting better benefits the maximum returns you will be getting getting because you are actually trying to convert these into the sauce you're trying to get back to the source diverted for making some useful products are not only products but also energy which is a major Dimond so waste to energy technologies have been developed and all of this will definitely contribute to beat of a financial benefits that we will be getting in terms of maximizing the of waste. Generation and minimizing the waste manager I mean they're trying to follow the waste management strategies will definitely help us bring about 8 bill. I mean not even have the least efforts to be put on the list that has to be managed. So if you actually do not concentrate on this what would happen is definitely will have to put a lot of thoughts on our trying to manage the waste at the landfill as well as it does that you would be getting the day that even in. So the policy isn't doing that Hey the environmental protection department of local government the entire. Is it the phone call is that the legislative aspects that they tried to implement the policy does that they have so what they tried to do is when you would like to dump their waste they tried to charge you for the beast. Right so this actually implemented the practice of managing the waste at the source. So you're not in the waist so that. Visions that technologies are already available and what the best deals for many years old and don't energy. Thank you they've tried to implement something called as the third user this possibility he's. This can be well understood. In terms of the emails that is predominantly generated definitely a lot of even yesterday. The old electronic gadgets. That includes be vis and conditioner you have no I'm the mobile phones that they use every day the L. computers all of all of it I'm definitely going to be getting obsolete after a period of time thank you so do we need to definitely rely on you what our technology is being even be buying new listings trying to replace the ones that we already. So the government of the legislation the environmental protection department. Well not only in Hong Kong several other countries several other cities also practiced in several other government organizations all across the globe also do this they tried to insist on what is called as the previews of possibilities. When the producer of that particular product. The new responsibility to collect at least. From. The guns you because you must maybe welcomes you must call the needy individual consumer strategies have to be framed in order to collect the waste from the guns you must buy the producers themselves will be an extended responsibility off the grid users so the address possibilities not only to make you wanna technologies available to the consumers but also there is possibility would be to collect the obsolete products all the outcomes of earlier technologies on the conventional technologies there is possibilities to collect them process them I'm trying to reuse them following the circular economy. Then you have the landfill disposal mechanisms save landfill constructed engineered land since all of these are the balls he believes that the environmental protection department of Hong Kong not only Hong Kong but several other major cities with that major companies are implementing in order to. Bring down the quantum of waste that is causing a lot of destruction to the. So how is this implemented they are trying to follow something called as integrated waste management we need to understand the still waste used to be generated we were never bothered about the quantum workplace that is generated we will never bothered about the impact that the waste is going to be generated we have a different categories of list we have apart from the organic waste I'll be we have a lot of ways that fall under the hazardous waste activity biomedical responded to the hazardous activity that you install in the desert is based at the Getty management all of that when mixed with the conventional basin degenerated in the whole sport is definitely a challenge when taken to the line so the lancers have become sources all materials they have become doors soldiers off. The house gas emissions the landfills have become the soles lot contaminants emerging that lead to a lot of diseases that lead to a lot of. Environmental as well as health impacts so this is how waste is trying to be a destruction all this is being a destruction of the monocyte so it is important that we have to protect ourselves not only from the natural calamities that that I'm foreseen we also need to be prepared we need to protect us as we need to keep us away at all. 