 We've covered what an experience map is... Welcome to 99grit where we're turning dreams into careers! My name is Andy and today I wanted to talk to you about experience mapping something that has been around forever within the field of experience design and I wanted to cover some of the ins and outs how to map experiences together. It all lands when it comes to customer research, when it comes to hypothesis mapping etc. Let's dig right into the subject and see what we can come up with. When it comes to experience mapping - it's a way to actually map out and assess experiences that any customer, any recipient of our service or product is actually experiencing or we're having while using our service or product for that matter. When it comes to running a design project as it stands I always identify three different types of Experience Maps. The first one is a Hypothetical Experience Map - something that we sit down with the business people and hypothetically generate all of the activities of a service or a product that are being put in front of a customer or a recipient of that service then we hypothetically assess it from the perspective of the business people obviously we need to empathize with the person we're trying or aiming at but at the end of the day it still is hypothetical. Then we go to the second kind of type of experience map and that's called and As-IS an Experience Map - that's somewhat validated so that's a map that we basically show or create after we've done the customer research part of the project so once we have a hypothesis we get out there into the field using some of the research methods like we've mentioned this and some of the previous vlogs. Using the appropriate methods we actually validate some of the experiences with a real human being with a real customer and on that basis we create the second type of the Experience Map - a validated hypothetical map which then becomes as As-Is an experience Map. The third type of an experience map that I usually use on a design project is that To-Be Experience Map so that's basically after we've done all the prototyping, all the generating of the ideas and we're trying to improve the service or a product to something that supposed to create this huge impact in the market, a huge impact on the experience level of our customers and service recipients and that is the To- Be Experience Map. It's all structured the same way and when it comes to the structure of the map itself it basically is built off two axis .The first axis that lines up all of the activities all of the features or all of the elements of a service or a product that we try to come up with or not really come up with but actually interact between the well with with our customers using the service or the product and I usually specify five different areas when it comes to experience mapping for those specific activities of that service or a product that a business is trying to reach a customer with. The first element of the first area is called Awareness -  these are all the activities and that we put out there to build the array awareness about our products about our services about the unique experiences were delivering. That's the first one. The second one is consideration so once a customer finds out about us through the awareness activities then we can put the service in front of him and kind of make him or her consider it in an appropriate manner so we make sure that he considers it positively so when he does that or when she does, we move over to the third element of the experience map and these are the activities that are related to how easy it is to actually get into that service get into that product and interact with it on a real tangible basis. That's an area that I usually call purchase so how do I get into the service and how easy it is to actually purchase it, how easy is it is to actually obtain it and what kind of activities do we consciously put in front of a customer to get there. The fourth one is an element or an area that I usually use and that's the use area so basically how do I use the product or a service and all of the activities that are associated with the actual usage of that specific service or a product where those activities usually end up and the last one but not the least one is share area so what kind of activities I'm putting in front of our customers or users or recipients of our services for them to share their experiences with us or any other customers. These are the five areas - to sum up and recap the experience map is has three different well, kind of types of it. There's a hypothetical and As-Is and a To-Be Map and it's built of five different areas of activities. They are building of awareness, consideration, purchase, use and share. That's pretty much a wrap I hope that this brings value to you guys reach out to us on LinkedIn, Facebook, YouTube. Subscribe to our channels, follow us anywhere you can. We're building this awareness element of our experience map. I'm really looking forward to interacting and I will see you around 