 As a child, I was able to witness moves in new directions. Humanity’s wish came true, and it marked the beginning of the space age. In 1969, Apollo 11 landed on the moon. An event that coined me and moves me to this day. As a father of 2 children, I’m excited for what the future holds. Humanity will colonise Mars as well as many more planets. In the future, exoplanets and extraterrestrial life will no longer be fiction. I’m Roman Retzbach, a German Future Expert with over 30 years’ experience. I have been advising board members and executives in industry and all other economic branches of production for decades. My work as Future Expert is as amazing and fascinating as it is shocking. I draw people's attention to topics of the future and encourage them to think beyond the horizon, the big(ger) picture. It’s only a matter of time for changes in economic, science and society to emerge as to predict. Because they have always been the key as essential for the further development of humanity. As Future Expert, I create insights to outlooks into the future based on future scenarios, which for their part are based on scientific research. These are based on scientific findings. With my advice I assist companies in recognising megatrends, future risks, chances and opportunities. Technological innovations can also be better planned in this way. Quantum computers, robotics, and artificial intelligence will have a significant impact on our lives in the future. We are talking here about unimaginable possibilities too advanced to imagine. My forecasts and projections are even more far-reaching. I’m thinking about eternal youth, immortal humans with nanochips to brain implants that live in virtual realities as hyperworlds. We’ll be living in an entirely restructured new world where technology has no limits as no physical borders. And still today, this thought seems scary. But it will be the or a (one) reality for future generations. We will experience such similar visionary developments apparent over all parts of our Planet Earth. We’ll be growing up in a world without noise, without traffic jams. Medical advances and hitech progress will enable us to identify symptoms of possible diseases beforehand. New encryption methods will protect our privacy. And this despite police to surveillance states, social evaluation as judgement, and censorship in many countries. We won’t be able to stop technological progress anymore. As consulting and researching scientist for the future, I witness as experience that my projections prove to be true and that my prognoses turn into reality. Space travel becomes part of everyday life; artificial intelligence seamlessly blend into our daily private lives and integrates itself in our world of work to professional life. We’re headed towards complete interconnection and networking altogether. Join as accompany me on an inspiring and fascinating journey through time towards our future and into distant futures. There you will learn to recognize mega and future trends. You can use and apply them successfully as profitably for your company. You will already benefit from my knowledge and recommendations for actions today and certainly in the future. I derive my forecasts from these broad, long-term visions of the future and thus make future forecasts and analyses as a future scientist. 