 (marching music) - G'day everyone, and welcome to this month's edition of What's New in EDU? Where we bring you all the latest product features and updates from Microsoft. (crowd cheers) The new school year is in full swing, and we know that teachers are no longer solely responsible for simply driving core curriculum, you also need to help students build their life skills in a safe and secure environment, so we wanted to help ensure the technology that you use this year empowers you to reach every learner more easily than ever. So in this episode, it's all about ease. (trumpet plays) Inclusive student-centered classrooms lead to overall learner success, and technology like read-aloud can help. So here's the deal. A read-aloud voice used to be robotic, but now... - [Female Voice] Thanks to your feedback, it's not. - Read-aloud is part of our learning tools that are built-in, easy to use, and free! (voice echoes) And they're available on these products and on the iPad and Windows 10. By helping machines to speak more like people, educators can better individualize learning, giving every student equitable access and a voice in the classroom. This helps them to build confidence and 21st-century skills. (piccolo plays) With powerful Microsoft education technology, you can do what you do best: put each student at the center, helping them to build future-ready skills to succeed in school, and life. And we have four Office 365 updates that help you do just that. First, you saw us announce Presenter Coach in a previous episode, but we're excited to share that it's now available in Powerpoint for the web. Makes it easier for students to brush up on their presentation skills. Inking is also available in Powerpoint for the web. Now you and your students can ink and annotate in presentation mode, and use ink replay in slideshows, while in presentation mode too. We've also made numerous improvements to inking and slideshow across all platforms, and we know inking helps with thinking. Check out the blog to learn more. Speaking of inking, check this out. We've got a great new way to collaborate. Check out whiteboard.microsoft.com. In real-time, you can keep your students engaged with this digital whiteboard interactive experience, so check it out. And with the last of the Office 365 news, we have free lesson plans for you. Ever wondered about 3-D models? Well let's save you some time. We've added a set of 23 education-based 3-D models and 10 lesson plans on topics including geology, biology, and space. These new 3-D models and lesson plans are now available to Office 365 subscribers in Windows. Find these life-like created plans at the link below and create an amazing comprehensive learning experience for your students today. (tuba plays) Sometimes having more options can be challenging, and when it comes to signing in to your digital accounts, many G-Suite for Education customers have told us they'd like to use Office 365, but their students have trouble remembering two sets of passwords. With this new solution, they won't have to, because students can easily sign in to Office 365 using their Google credentials and work side-by-side in Google Classroom and their Office apps. We're looking for school districts that are interested to join our preview, try the experience, and provide feedback. Learn more in the links in the description so we can help you determine if it's a good fit for your district. (flute plays) Now let's talk Minecraft: Education Edition: the back to school update is full of amazing new features, here's one. Have you been trying to figure out how students can submit their work or save what they build? Now the export function in the book and quill tool let's them save as a PDF. This new feature brings ease to formative assessment and makes it intuitive for students to document and share their work. The update introduces a super-fun way to use multiplayer, and control who's invited into your Minecraft world. Students and teachers can use join codes to set a password and control permissions. And immersive reader is now fully integrated, making it easy to read and translate in-game. Check out our most recent release of our you-can quick tip video in the link below. So go ahead, and easily bring Minecraft into the classroom this new school year. And that's it for another episode of What's New in EDU? Be sure to check out the resources in the links below, and-- - We'll see you next time! (upbeat music) (cheers) 