International revenue accounted for approximately 47 percent, 47 percent and 46 percent of our revenue in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Europe, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the United States dollar, euro, Swedish kronor and British pound sterling. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2018.We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments, the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.We expect that macroeconomic factors, including fluctuations in spending by United States government agencies, rate of GDP growth in certain geographic markets, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, will continue to impact our financial results and may render predictions regarding future performance difficult to make.Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our critical estimates on an on-going basis and base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and differences could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates are the most significant to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgments:36Revenue recognition.  We design, market and sell products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We regularly enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price. The vast majority of our revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer. However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees. Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to our customers. Warranty liabilities are established at the time that revenue is recognized at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified. Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of representative commissions and sales taxes. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASC 606, "Revenue-Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and all the related amendments. See Note 1, "Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements.Inventory.  Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that indicate that our inventories are likely to be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usages are evaluated within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2018, our inventories of $352.1 million are stated net of inventory write-downs. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.Goodwill.  Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of an acquired enterprise over the estimated fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. We assess goodwill for potential impairment at the reporting unit level during the third quarter of each year, or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may exceed their fair value. We may assess qualitative factors to make this determination, or bypass such a qualitative assessment and proceed directly to testing goodwill for impairment using a two-step process. Qualitative factors we may consider include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry conditions, the competitive environment, changes in the market for our products and services, regulatory and political developments and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance.  If there are indicators that goodwill has been impaired we proceed to a two-step impairment test, whereby the first step is comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is performed. The second step is performed if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss equal to the difference is recorded. Our impairment test in the current year did not indicate an impairment of goodwill in any of our reporting units.Contingencies.  We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals and disclosures should be adjusted.37Income taxes.  We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of the assets and liabilities measured using the enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2018, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $3.2 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be recorded in the period such determination is made.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions, and in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We record a benefit on a tax position when we determine that it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. For tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained, we measure the tax position at the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized when it is effectively settled, using information that is available at the reporting date.  We review our tax positions as circumstances warrant, and update our liability for additional taxes as changes in available facts arise.38Consolidated Operating ResultsThe following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue: Year Ended December 31,(1) 2018 2017 2016Revenue100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 %Cost of goods sold49.3 52.3 53.8Gross margin50.7 47.7 46.2Operating expenses:     Research and development9.9 9.5 8.9Selling, general and administrative21.8 20.8 19.4Restructuring expenses0.3 — 0.1Loss on sale of business0.8 1.3 —Total operating expenses32.8 31.6 28.4Earnings from operations17.9 16.1 17.8Interest expense0.9 0.9 1.1Interest income(0.2) (0.1) (0.1)Other (income) expense, net(0.0) (0.2) 0.2Earnings before income taxes17.3 15.5 16.6Income tax provision1.4 9.5 6.6Net earnings15.9 % 6.0 % 10.0 %______________ (1)Totals may not recompute due to rounding.The following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations for 2018, 2017 and 2016. Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations (including operating margin percentage) are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months. Backlog is not an absolute indicator of future revenue because a portion of the orders in backlog could be canceled at the customer's discretion. While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant number of order cancellations. Revenue.  Consolidated revenue for 2018 totaled $1,775.7 million, a decrease of 1.4 percent from 2017 revenue of $1,800.4 million. Year over year revenue increased for our Industrial and Government and Defense business units but was offset by a decrease in our Commercial business unit. The decline in our Commercial business unit is a result of our divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security business as announced in February 2018.Revenue for 2017 totaled $1,800.4 million, an increase of 8.3 percent over 2016 revenue of $1,662.2 million. The acquisitions of Armasight, Prox Dynamics, and Point Grey were the primary drivers in revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2017.International revenue in 2018 totaled $841.2 million, representing 47.4 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2017 which totaled $844.0 million, representing 46.9 percent of revenue, and $758.6 million in 2016, representing 45.6 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between United States and international sales may fluctuate from year to year, we expect revenue from customers outside the United States to continue to comprise a significant portion of our total revenue on a long-term basis.Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $875.4 million and $941.7 million, respectively. The decrease is primarily due to the decline in our Commercial business unit as a result of the Consumer and SMB Security business divestiture.Cost of goods sold in 2017 was $941.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold of $895.0 million in 2016. The increase is primarily due to the increase in revenues year over year as discussed above and changes in product mix. 39Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period as well as warranty costs. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation and amortization, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.Gross profit.  Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $900.3 million compared to $858.8 million in 2017. Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 47.7 percent in 2017 to 50.7 percent in 2018 primarily due to favorable product mix.Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $858.8 million compared to $767.1 million in 2016.  Gross margin increased from 46.2 percent in 2016 to 47.7 percent in 2017 primarily due to favorable product mix. Research and development.  Research and development expenses were $176.3 million, or 9.9 percent of revenue, in 2018, compared to $170.7 million, or 9.5 percent of revenue, in 2017, and $147.5 million, or 8.9 percent of revenue, in 2016. The increase in research and development expenses year over year in 2017 was primarily related to the inclusion of companies acquired in 2015 and 2016.We intend to continue to have significant research and development expenses in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative and high-quality products that maintain and enhance our competitive position in each of our business segments. We believe that future cash flow generation will be sufficient to support the development of new products that fuel the growth of the business. Selling, general and administrative expenses.  Selling, general and administrative expenses were $386.9 million, or 21.8 percent of revenue, in 2018 compared to $373.9 million, or 20.8 percent of revenue, in 2017 and $322.4 million, or 19.4 percent of revenue, in 2016.  The increase in selling, general, and administrative expenses year over year in 2018 compared to 2017 is primarily attributed to the $15 million recorded in the first quarter of 2018 for the costs of a regulatory settlement described in Note 14, "Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in 