RISK FACTORSThe following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors Related to Our BusinessWe depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our businessWe derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts funded by United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, approximately 32 percent, 29 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control. A failure to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government spending on our products and services and have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts.Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures. Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold, including the defense spending priorities of the United States government agencies. Any failure by the United States government to timely enact annual appropriations bills could restrict new contract or program starts, presenting resource allocation challenges and placing limitations on some planned program budgets. We may also face another United States government shutdown of unknown duration. If a prolonged government shutdown of the Department of Defense were to occur, it could result in program cancellations, disruptions and/or stop work orders and could limit the United States government’s ability effectively to progress programs and to make timely payments, limit our ability to obtain necessary export licenses to ship internationally, and limit our ability to perform on our United States government contracts and successfully compete for new work. Consequently, significant delays or reductions in appropriations; long-term funding under a continuing resolution; an extended debt ceiling breach or government shutdown; and/or future budget and program decisions, among other items, may negatively impact our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulationsAs a government contractor, we must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to routine and non-routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense Contract Management Agency and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its business systems. Adverse findings in these investigations, audits, or reviews can lead to criminal, civil or administrative proceedings, and the Company could face disallowance of previously billed costs, penalties, fines, compensatory damages and suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies. Due to the Company’s reliance on government contracts, adverse findings could also have a material impact on the Company’s business, including its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.19In addition, violations of these regulations or other unrelated laws and statutes can lead to debarment and other penalties as well as have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If we fail to comply with procurement rules and regulations and other laws and statutes, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from United States government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently. An adverse action by the United States government could also result in lost sales to non-governmental customers who might disqualify us as a result of such adverse action. The impairment or loss of our government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business. Operating margins may be negatively impacted by reduction in sales or by a change in the mix of products soldOur expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness. We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Our fixed costs, including facilities and information technology costs, compliance and public company costs, and depreciation and amortization related to previous acquisitions and capital expenditures, are significant and are difficult to reduce in the short term. Our operating margins vary by product and substantial changes in the mix of products sold could also have a negative impact on our operating margins.We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assetsOur industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company recognized an intangible asset impairment charge of $1.2 million associated with intangible assets that were determined not to be recoverable due to a change in their expected future economic benefit. There can be no assurance that we will not experience other such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimated liabilities.20We face risks from international sales and business activitiesWe market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, international sales accounted for 45 percent, 47 percent and 47 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia. Certain of these products, particularly our thermal and infrared products, are subject to substantial government regulation and licensing and end use restrictions throughout the world. Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including:•the imposition of and changes to governmental licensing restrictions and controls impacting our technology and products;•restrictions and prohibitions on the export of technology and products, including any applicable changes in regulation prohibiting the sale of certain of our products to certain end users without a license;•international trade restrictions, such as imposition of bans on sales of goods or services to one or more of our significant foreign customers;•difficulty in collecting receivables and governmental restrictions with respect to currency;•inadequate protection of intellectual property;•labor union activities;•changes in tariffs and taxes;•restrictions on repatriation of prior earnings;•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;•risks, costs, impacts and obligations associated with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable to us, and laws applicable to global trade and United States exports and costs and penalties from violations of such laws and related regulations, including the costs associated with required remedial and other increased compliance activity;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; •instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and potential impact due to the exit of the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") from the European Union (the "EU"), colloquially referred to as "Brexit"; and•complications due to natural, nuclear or other disasters, such as outbreak of coronavirus.Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a strain of coronavirus was reported to have surfaced in Wuhan, China in late 2019. While we continue to monitor the rapidly evolving situation related to the coronavirus, the Chinese government’s actions, particularly from quarantining individuals in and around major commercial hubs, such as Wuhan, and restricting the opening of factories and operations, will likely have an impact, possibly material, on our supply chain and operations in China and availability of certain products produced in China in the short-term. The extent to which the coronavirus impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others.We are subject to numerous regulatory requirements for the export and sale of our products and operations worldwide that could adversely affect our businessCompliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business both in the United States and in international jurisdictions. These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements. For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “SEC Order”). The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation. Pursuant to the SEC Order, we are obligated to “cease and desist” from committing any future violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 211934, as amended. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs. Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.  On April 24, 2018, we entered into a Consent Agreement with the United States Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”) to resolve allegations regarding the unauthorized export of technical data and defense services to dual and third country nationals in certain of our facilities, the failure to properly use and manage export licenses and export authorizations, and failures to report certain payments under 22 CFR Part 130 in potential violation of ITAR. The Consent Agreement has a four-year term and provides for: (i) a civil penalty of $30 million with $15 million of this amount suspended on the condition that the funds have or will be used for Department-approved Consent Agreement remedial compliance measures, (ii) the appointment of an external Special Compliance Official to oversee compliance with the Consent Agreement and the ITAR; (iii) two external audits of our ITAR compliance program; and (iv) continued implementation of ongoing remedial compliance measures and additional remedial compliance measures related to automated systems and ITAR compliance policies, procedures, and training.  Adverse findings in the audits of our ITAR compliance program could materially affect our competitive position and cause incurrence of additional expenses in connection with implementation of remedial measures and result in a substantial adjustment to our revenue and net income. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, we recorded a $15.0 million charge for the portion of the penalty that is not subject to suspension. As of December 31, 2019, the remaining amounts payable of $3.5 million and $7.0 million have been recorded in other current liabilities and other long-term liabilities, respectively. We expect recent and future investments in remedial compliance measures will be sufficient to cover the $15.0 million suspension amount.As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that we voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations (which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement), cooperated in DDTC’s review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.We may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customersExport licenses and other authorizations may be required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the EAR, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services. Thermal and infrared products and technical data have been subject to the ITAR and EAR, historically under United States Munitions List ("USML") Category XII and Commerce Control List ("CCL") Category 6. The United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR. This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted.The United States export licensing environment has been affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the aftermath of 9/11, the rise of terrorism and the changing geopolitical environment, heightened tensions with other countries (which shift and evolve over time), and the United States reliance on the tactical advantage of the night-time war fighter. Some of these factors have affected the thermal imaging and infrared technology industry overall while others have impacted us directly. In addition, the Consent Agreement and related submissions and other communications concerning our licensing posture overall have led to 22heightened scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets and, in some cases, highlight DDTC’s focus on the manner in which we handle exports of our products, technical data and services subject to the ITAR.In addition, concerns with respect to potential diversion of certain of our products to prohibited end users and countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States government has caused the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security to restrict our ability to sell 9hz thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce.Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, during the normal course of our business, we have experienced and we expect to continue to experience violations of ITAR and EAR, none of which has been material to the Company to date. Material violations of these legal requirements can be punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts, seizure and forfeiture of unlawful attempted exports, and/or denial of export privileges, as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us, our personnel and our agents to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no guarantee that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us, our employees and our agents from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and violations, allegations or investigations of such violations could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also no guarantee that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control. As a result, we may receive more restrictive provisos or limitations on new license requests, wholesale denials of our license requests, suspensions or terminations of our existing licenses, or delays in receiving new licenses resulting from requests for follow-up information, due diligence requests or additional limitations on our sale to third parties. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business.  Failures to obtain or delays in obtaining licenses may prevent or limit our ability to market, sell, export, or transfer our products outside the United States and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results.We face risks from BrexitBrexit has created uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. The U.K. formally exited the EU on January 31, 2020 and has entered a transition period to negotiate the future relation terms with the EU.We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in Europe, a portion of which reside in the U.K. and therefore enjoyed certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the EU. The lack of clarity about Brexit and the future U.K. laws and regulations creates uncertainty for us, as the outcome of these negotiations may affect our business and operations. For example, the imposition of tariffs following the Brexit may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Additionally, there also is a risk that other countries may decide to leave the EU. The uncertainty surrounding Brexit not only potentially affects our business in the U.K. and the EU, but may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the European euro or British pound sterling could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency, such as our multicurrency credit facility. While we have adopted certain operational and financial measures to reduce the risks of doing business internationally, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate to allow us to operate without disruption or adverse impact to our business and financial results in the affected regions. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend on the agreements or arrangements with the EU for the U.K. to retain access to EU markets either during a transitional period or more permanently.Our earnings and profitability depend, in part, on subcontractor and supplier performance and financial viability as well as raw material and component availability and pricingWe rely on other parties to provide raw materials, and components and subsystems for our products and to produce certain products or parts, provide information about the parts or products they supply to us, and perform some of the services we provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and contract terms. Disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and suppliers, or a misalignment between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreement with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have various impacts on the company, including on our ability to meet our commitments to customers.23Our ability to perform our obligations on time could be adversely affected if one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers were unable to provide the agreed-upon products, materials or information, or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or otherwise to meet the requirements of the contract. Changes in political or economic conditions, including changes in defense budgets or credit availability or sanctions, or other changes impacting a subcontractor or supplier (including changes in ownership or operations), as well as their ability to retain talent and other resources, and requirements or changes in requirements imposed on them by other customers, could adversely affect the financial stability of our subcontractors and suppliers and/or their ability to perform. The inability of our suppliers to perform, or their inability to perform adequately, could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other resources to support our existing suppliers. This risk may increase as the demands grow for our subcontractors and suppliers to meet extensive government-related cyber and other requirements.In connection with our U.S. government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the customer. We also are facing increased and changing regulatory requirements, both domestically and internationally, many of which apply to our subcontractors and suppliers. In some cases, there may be only one supplier, or one domestic supplier, for certain components. For example, a single domestic source currently supplies us, as well as the U.S. domestic solid propellant industry, with a principal raw material used in the production of solid rocket motors. If a supplier cannot appropriately meet our needs, experiences disruptions to production or is otherwise unavailable or not fully available, we may be unable to find a suitable alternative.Our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of counterfeit, unauthorized or otherwise non-compliant parts or materials. We rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations and contract terms, including regarding the parts or materials we procure from them; in some circumstances, we rely on certifications provided by our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. We also rely on our subcontractors and suppliers effectively to mitigate the risk of cyber and security threats or other disruptions with respect to the products, components and services they deliver to us and the information entrusted to them by us or our customers and to comply with applicable contractual terms and laws and regulations, including cybersecurity requirements.If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform or we are unable to procure, or experience significant delays in deliveries of, needed products, materials or services; or if they do not comply with all applicable laws, regulations, requirements and contract terms, including if what we receive is counterfeit or otherwise improper, our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.We face risks from currency fluctuationsHistorically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars, by balancing expenses and revenues in various currencies and by undertaking limited hedging of forecasted currency exposures. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive.General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditionOur operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for our products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, changes in government spending levels and/or priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, industrial or consumer spending behavior.In recent years, our performance has been negatively impacted by reduced spending by United States government agencies, global economic weakness, and the Eurozone crisis. Continuation of the conditions that led to reduced spending and potential further reductions in spending globally by either consumers or government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.24Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictableOur business depends on the demand for our products and solutions in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. In the past, the demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders;•variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular fiscal quarter;•the size and timing of new contract awards;•the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and•the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter.Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results are an outcome of:•the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certai