 Hello, I am Profe Sang. In this video, we are going to  talk about the 5G technology. We will explain how this technology works, the improvements that it delivers, and the new applications that await us. Then, let's get started. 5G stands for fifth generation. And it is the expression that we use to indicate the fifth evolution of mobile communications. Because it is the fifth generation, this means that there were four previous technologies. 1G allowed us to have mobile phones for the first time. It made it possible to make phone calls outside our homes using wireless networks. Then, 2G appeared. Among the most impressive advances of 2G was the text message services known as SMS, which stands for Short Message Service. Some years later, 3G was created. At this stage, smart phones began to become popular. Among the advances made in 3G, the one with the greatest impact was Internet browsing through mobile phones, with interfaces similar to those of a computer. And in the present, we are using 4G technology. This technology allowed us to have high speed access to information on our cell phones, allowing access to services such as high definition videos, social networks and video calls through the Internet. Although the 4g technology allowed us to have many important services, due to the constant increase of users and the appearance of new devices with Internet connection, the communication channel is getting more and more saturated. Additionally, the appearance of new services such as virtual reality, ultra high definition videos, autonomous cars, smart factories, internet of things, etc. is creating the need for having a technology  with higher speeds with less latency. You can compare 4G technology with a road in good condition, but with few lanes. At the beginning, it was enough for the quantity and quality of cars that existed. However, there are already a lot of cars that require the construction of new roads of better quality and greater capacity. Due to these demands of the modern world, 5G technology is born. 5G has great improvements over its predecessor in three fundamental aspects. It has improvements in speed, there is a reduction in latency and it allows the connection of a large number of devices. With respect to the speed, it can be indicated that in 5G, the devices will send high-speed messages. That is to say, if before we had normal cars, with 5G all the vehicles are going to be sports cars that can run at high speeds. Additionally, the 5G gives us a high-speed road with many lanes, allowing sports cars to run at full speed. As for the latency, because the vehicles are sports cars, they will be able to go and return quickly from their destinations. The large number of lanes on the road will also help meet this goal. Finally, in terms of density, due to the existence of many lanes, they will allow a lot of vehicles to travel at the same time. This means that many devices, whether mobile phones, intelligent speakers, sensors, actuators, autonomous cars, etc. will be able to connect simultaneously in a 5G network. But, how much improvement are we talking about? Let's see a comparison with 4G technology. The peak speed in 4G is 1000 Mbps while the peak speed in 5G will be 20 Gbps. On the other hand, the average speed felt by users is 71 Mbps in 4G, while in 5G, it will be 1400 Mbps. In other words, we are talking about a 2000% increase in speed. To make this data more understandable, we can indicate that with 5G, we will be able to download a high definition movie in less than 10 seconds. As for the latency, it will be reduced to one millisecond in the URLLC mode, which means ultra reliable low latency communication. This will make the delay not noticeable by the user, allowing a high quality user experience for video games, multimedia, entertainment and real-time services in autonomous automobiles. Finally, the high density feature will be phenomenal at 5G. It will allow the connection of one million devices per square kilometer, exceeding more than 300 times the number of devices that we could connect in 4G. But, how is this possible? Next, we will explain a little more about the technologies that are used in 5G. The improvements of speed latency and density in 5G are given thanks to different technologies such as millimeter waves, small cells, massive MIMO, Beamforming and full duplex communication. First, let's see what millimeter waves are. Currently, all wireless communications are done in a frequency range of up to 6 gigahertz. This means that the frequencies are becoming saturated due to the large number of wireless devices that are being built daily. Due to this reason, 5G will use a high frequency range that is totally free, which is based on millimeter waves. This will allow the connection of a large number of devices. However, millimeter waves have a great disadvantage. Due to its high frequency, it has problems in crossing obstacles. For this reason, these high frequencies were not used in the past. And to be able to solve the limitation of the millimeter waves, the technology of small cells appears. At present, the communication stations are high power and they send the waves at a great distance. So if we apply the same powerful technology with millimeter waves, many of the users will not be able to communicate, due to obstacles along the way. In this example, user 1 and user 2 will not be able to communicate due to obstructions generated by the tree and the house. Only user 3 could have communication. So in 5G, instead of using a single long-range station, it will use thousands of small, short-range stations to dodge obstacles. This will be extremely useful in cities, as these contain a lot of barriers to communication waves. The next technology used by 5G is the massive MIMO. MIMO stands for multiple input multiple output and it refers to the use of multiple antennas to take advantage of multi-path propagation communication. In 4G, this technology is also used, but stations have access to only dozens of ports for antennas. In contrast, 5G proposes the use of MIMO, but massive. That is, having large amounts of simultaneous antennas to expand the communication capacity. However, putting more antennas also brings its own problem. The problem is that the messages generated by the large number of antennas that are leaving in all directions will generate a lot of interference, causing errors during transmission. To solve this problem, the fourth technology appears, which is beamforming. Beamforming allows a directed communication to avoid signal sending in all directions. Beamforming can be considered as a control system for sending signals. Instead of sending the signals to all directions, it makes them directed to specific users, making there much less interference and generating much more efficient communication. Finally, we have an improved full duplex communication. Full duplex refers to a bi-directional communication in real time. Currently, we have two options to have a two-way communication. As a first option, only one frequency is used to send and receive messages. In this option, the devices are rotated, that is, they take separate times to send and receive messages. The second option is to use two frequencies, one to transmit messages and another to receive them. With this option, speed is gained but an additional frequency is spent to achieve full duplex communication. Now in 5G, it will be possible to have a full duplex communication using a single frequency thanks to the high-speed switches. The five mentioned technologies added to others will allow us to have a new generation of high capacity wireless communications, which will make possible the implementation of new applications. For example, cars will soon have continuous communication through 5G. When a car detects a problem of road safety, this information will be transmitted to nearby cars, so they can be warned of the irregularity. That is, we will have a transit security application that will be based on the automatic interaction of vehicles. Drivers safety will not be the only application. Additionally, we will be able to play video games among the passengers of different cars. Additionally, we will also have other infotainment applications including music, sending photos, videos, etc. Additionally, this technology may be used for emergency systems. For example, the ambulance may transmit the patient's health information in real time, such as cardiac data, pulse and opinions of health personnel, so that when the patient arrives at the hospital they can be treated in a timely and optimal manner. The 5G will also allow you to expand the different types of augmented reality applications, whether entertainment or information applications. It will also allow the development of virtual reality, so that we can access these services from any part of the city. Additionally, it will allow the sensors, actuators, robots and computers of a factory to communicate in real time, so that artificial intelligence can make decisions in the product manufacturing process. The improved 5G latency will allow to control each component of the factory in real time. In the same way, it will allow to have an intelligent house that gives its inhabitants an optimal living environment. And it will allow to create an intelligent city with computer services, security services, optimal transport, among other services, so that its inhabitants can have an optimal and futuristic life. In South Korea, the 5G corporate service has already begun to be commercialized. It is expected that by March 2019, the first connections for end users will begin, thanks to the sale of the first 5G mobile phones for that date. Well... The appearance of 5G will be able to change the life of the users in a great way, delivering different types of applications from the entertainment area, ubiquitous connectivity, autonomous transport and internet of things. If you liked this video, we invite you to subscribe to our channel. Additionally, we invite you to visit our facebook page that contains more information about the world of technology. A big hug to everyone. 