 (music) TECHMEOUT: What’s going on, everyone? TechMeOut, here. And I’m sure a lot of you out there have been hearing some things about 5G and you might be kind of curious what it is, what does it mean, like I am. I have one of my friends here from AT&T Labs, Arun Ghosh. And he’s going to talk to us a little bit about what 5G is. ARUN GHOSH: We start with a virtualized or a software-based network right from the beginning. Another thing that is really exciting is the usage of Millimeter Wave Technology on the Millimeter Wave spectrum. And it’s a completely new thing that we have never done before. (record scratching) TECHMEOUT: What Arun is saying is that 5G is the next generation of mobile technology. It will eventually increase data speeds and lower latency or network response time. Which is important for future technologies, like wireless AR gaming, and self-driving cars. But it’s not just about data speeds. AT&T is also looking at using beamsteering technology in its 5G network. Which is sort of like taking a road trip with GPS. The network signals can bend, flex, and update itself as you move around. Do you have anything to kind of show me? ARUN GHOSH: You bet. Let’s go to the lab. I can show you. TECHMEOUT: Alright, let’s do it. (electronic music) ARUN GHOSH: So, this is one unit that acts as a receiver. Think of this as your phone. TECHMEOUT: So, it would eventually be smaller? ARUN GHOSH: It will eventually be smaller. Millimeter waves are essentially radio waves. They’re at much higher frequency. And what happens when you go in such high frequencies is that the signal doesn’t really go that far. TECHMEOUT: Okay. Okay, so, Arun’s really passionate and he knows his stuff. He’s basically saying that frequency and wavelength are key in making way for all the content coming across the network. But Millimeter Wave comes with challenges. Here, he’s explaining how they develop beamforming to help stay connected to moving devices. ARUN GHOSH: What beamforming essentially allows you to do is to take the signal and send it towards that customer. TECHMEOUT: Okay. ARUN GHOSH: You’re sort of sending it out in every direction. A good analogy would be the difference between a light bulb and a flashlight. With a light bulb, you send the energy in every direction. If you have a 100-Watt bulb, why not do it? But if you have a 1-Watt flashlight, what you do is you take the same light and focus it in one direction. TECHMEOUT: Now that I get Millimeter Wave and beamforming, we went outside to see how it would be deployed in the real world. (electronic music) ARUN GHOSH: Well, there you have it. That’s an actual small cell deployed in the field. TECHMEOUT: You talked about Millimeter Waves in the lab. So, how does small cells in the world, kind of, connect with the Millimeter Waves? ARUN GHOSH: Right. The signals that will come out of that small cell and come to your phone or your car, those will be based on Millimeter Waves. TECHMEOUT: So, how do you make sure it’s all working? ARUN GHOSH: You saw the test setup that we have in the Anechoic Chamber. Testing the devices, testing the functionalities of the antenna, the beamforming, all that works in the Anechoic Chamber is extremely critical. Once you do that, the next step is to really go and test them on a mobile platform in the field. And we put our devices and 5G equipment on a van and we test it in the field. And finally, once even that step is validated, we then take it to a, kind of, market deployment. TECHMEOUT: Alright, I get it. But I still haven’t seen it in action on my phone. But it turns out AT&T has a 5G trial up and running in Waco. So, I headed there to see if I could test it out. (hip hop music) I met with Paul Hartman with AT&T Labs. Could we do, like a, cross comparison between 5G and what people currently have which is 4G? PAUL HARTMAN: So, if you want to do the 5G side, I will do the 4G side. TECHMEOUT: Alright. PAUL HARTMAN: And then we can do a direct comparison. TECHMEOUT: Let’s see what kind of speeds we get. That is crazy. What? PAUL HARTMAN: I’m glad you like it. TECHMEOUT: I love it. That’s amazing. I could, like, record a video and instantly upload it to YouTube faster. I’m mind-blown right now. Okay, y’all. So, we learned a lot today. And I know, I personally feel better informed and even more excited about 5G. And I hope you all do too. As always, thanks for taking the time out to let me tech you out. (sonic logo) 