 Have you ever wondered what really is a blockchain. This video will make you understand it, in 2 minutes. Have you ever doubted the organic agricultural products whether they are really organic? And whether the checking process is transparent? There is only 1 way to know which is to have a document that can store the data of the products at every stage, from producer to consumer. And it has to be verified by many people that are not from any single firm. The system that enables this function is a software called “blockchain”. The blockchain stores data in the network of personal computers in the system which make it a decentralized system. This make it very hard to be taken down since if someone is trying to hack the system, that person would have to hack every single computer in the network. A blockchain consists of data, hash, which is a unique string of random numbers and alphabets, and hash of the previous block. When data in a block is full, the new block will be created and linked to the previous block consequently. Hence the name “blockchain”. Each block contains hash of the previous block which has to match each other for the block to be valid. Therefore, if a block is tampered or modified, its hash will change causing a hash to differ from the information on the next block. This make all of the following blocks invalid. This make hacking very difficult because if hacker wants to change the data in 1 block, he/she has to change the data in the rest of the blocks. In conclusion, the advantages of the blockchain technology are precise and transparent data recording, decentralized system, which make it very hard to be tampered or destroyed, And the exclusion of middleman such as bank, lawyer, and firms. Which saves both money and time while being more precise and transparent. Now as you have learned blockchain, let me give an example of an application of blockchain. When speaking of blockchain, it is inevitable to not think of Bitcoin Which uses blockchain technology to change the world. Bitcoin utilizes blockchain network in tracking the ownership over the coin, the transaction, and the validation by computers all over the world which will earn reward as a newly mined or made Bitcoin. All of this is to avoid data tampering and fees collected by the middle man. Aside from this, blockchain technology is also applicable in storing medical record, Tracking and transferring of the ownership over land and real estate, Checking food safety, Managing supply chain, Transparent accounting, And many other services around the world. 