 Hello extraordinaries and welcome back to another  episode of the High Performance Consciousness   podcast. My name is Matthew Patti and again, we're  going to dive deep into another fantastic topic   today. Like I've said in previous episodes. Most  of these topics actually arise from the questions   from my private clients or from mastermind members  as well. So, I'm super appreciative and grateful   to those questions as muses for topics for  the podcast. So today, we're actually going   to talk about identities. So a success identity  and narrowing down, defining what your success   identity looks like, feels like and behaves like.  Big word to focus on right there is behavior.   Okay, so let's dive into this and give you  some real food for thought on how you can   move the needle on your success, move the needle  on shifting realities, faster than ever before. So   without further ado. Let's dive on, dive on in. So  when we think about our current identity, there's   lots of research out there. New emerging research  as well, that is, proving that we are not a fixed   linear identity and that that as i've said in  previous podcasts is actually a misnomer and   quite uh quite the illusion because when  we are brought up, we're brought up to go to a great school, get great grades. You know,  get a good job, whatever it may be from there. You   know, get married, settle down, have a mortgage.  You know, all those sort of things save for   retirement and all of those decisions and the  education around helping us to make decisions   is supporting the building of an identity. And  who we believe we are at the level of identity   is what drives our behavior. So identity drives  behavior. So if we believe that we are trapped   in this very finite cosmos or finite universe  of potential because we haven't tasted success   or attained the level of of success that we  have dreamt of or desired for some time, then   we are forming unconsciously an identity  around success as far as what we perceive as   potential or potentially available as opportunity  and experience for ourselves. We can change your   identity. You think about when you travel and I  think about when I travel. Anytime that I travel   whether it's interstate but especially overseas,  to different cultures hearing different dialects   or different languages, you know, different  accents. Driving on a different side of the road,   exchanging different types of currency, whatever  it may be, there is a different type of identity   and you could say that this is one of my eyes.  So i have many eyes many identities. So this   is my travel identity and you may feel the same  as well. You may feel more expanded, more excited,   more almost child-like in wonder and wanting to  explore and to experience in in your travels. So   when you think about your business where you think  about your entrepreneurial endeavors, your ideas.   What identity do you hold about yourself? What  identity do you consistently consciously and   unconsciously enroll yourself in on a day-by-day  basis and what does that identity believe   to be true about success for you. So  I part of this is to de-personalize   your concept and your attachment to identity.  So a lot of people over the years that I've   brought this up, there's uh well not a lot there's  been some that have actually pushed back on this   and said your identity is fixed or why would I  change my identity because um all the lessons and   experiences I've had to date with you know friends  and family and partners or whatever it may be,   have helped to form who I am today and I am  appreciative of that. I say all well and good   no problem at all. If your the identity that  you walk around with as and perceive yourself   to be is yielding the results that you want in  certain or all areas of your life then why change?   Absolutely. However if there are key aspects  of your life, fragments of your life, areas of   your life that you would like to upgrade. You  would like to you know improve in some way   then first and foremost it's looking at what  identity am I enrolled in, what is the perception   of myself in this area of my life. So some people  feel that the underlying belief is that business   is hard or cash flow is hard to retain or maintain  or that you know building wealth is for someone   else. I've never been taught how to build wealth.  I have no mechanism. I have no consciousness   there's no container built for wealth to grow to  be grown and to be maintained and and expanded   upon essentially. So when you are looking at these  areas that you would like to upgrade in your life.   Let's just use business right now, what identity  do you relate with? So if you're looking at, well   identity drives behavior. What are what is the  identity of me in my current business and look at   all the traits and the attributes and the actions  and thoughts and feelings that you have towards   your business right now. Is it that I'm working  really hard and I'm seeing little results or I'm   working really hard and I'm getting pushback  from family or friends because I'm I'm no fun   or is it that I'm working really hard and I'm  seeing great results but I feel tired and I   feel like I'm I'm not enjoying my results as much  as I could or that I'm not working hard because   I'm afraid that it will create an imbalance in  other areas of my life therefore i'm not seeing   the results that I would like or anticipate  uh coming back to me through lack of effort   so there's lots of different narratives that  we run on this one, so when you first understand   that or identify what identity you are playing  and what mask you are in fact wearing because   your identity is linked to your personality. Your  personality is your persona. Your persona in latin   is mask, it's a mask that you are wearing  and most people wear it unconsciously. So   their name is their identity, their their role or  status in family or in society is their identity.   If you want to change your reality you must change  your personality to change your personal reality.   So your personality is the sum total of what  you think, act and feel. Rinsed and repeated   as as habit day in, day out consciously or  unconsciously. So in order to upgrade your reality,   it is first and fundamental and vital for you to  observe what identity you are wearing, what mask   you're wearing and we we're relating it back to  business. So I'm going in a little bit of circles   right now just to make sure that it's landing  right on your helipad, right there so you can   take it all in and and really go deep with this. So  look at how you think, how you act and how you feel   within your current identity or as your  current identity in business as the example. Now,   what is the behavior that this identity exhibits?  So if you're thinking and feeling this way   in your business, what's what behavior is uh  is the extension of that do you typically push   hard and wait for results do you push hard and  then push harder in not believing the results   are going to come or that the results are just  around the corner and you need to keep efforting   or are you afraid to take the final action  required to, I guess bring the seed to harvest,   which means that maybe it's fight or flight.  So you do all this prep work and this behavior   as I get excited around the creation of an  idea and the building of creative materials   or the resources the unpacking of things and  building all the bells and whistles of websites   and funnels and lead magnets and ads and all  those sort of things but when it comes to execute.   My behavior is contrary to the result that I  desire. So I fail to pull the trigger, I fail   to follow through and close the circuit and  I'll do another episode on closing the circuit,   so that we can go deep on that  but it's one thing that I see.   A lot of business owners and entrepreneurs quit  just before they're about to win and the big thing   around this identity is it is driving this  behavior and this behavior left unchecked and   unmetered is actually going to continue creating  the same results which invariably is the one   that you sit back late at night or early in the  morning or during the day going, what am I doing   all this for? Am I actually getting the results  that I want. So just sit with that for a moment.   Neuroscience and neuroplasticity with countless  research uh levels of research coming out now   especially over the last decade and in the  last year or two about neuroplasticity is   we can upgrade our brains we can improve  the function and capacity of our brains the   efficiency of our brains the speed at which  we learn and execute and retain information   through our behavior. So when you're looking  at your identity and you're thinking, okay,  these are the behaviors that are following  this perceived identity of me in business.   Let's now reverse engineer it. What is the result  that you want. What results get really clear in   in your mind get it on paper. What  is the end result that you want   for your business this level of cash flow creating  this level these levels of experiences these level   of savings or investments whatever it's going to  be reaching this this uh this amount of people.   Whatever it is. Once you do that then it is  all around initially it's called modeling.   So, you'll look outside of yourself and you see  who else is in my field or in a similar field   or who else is actually experiencing the  same results that i want to experience and   you look at them and you research them and then  essentially, you're emulating their their mastery.   So how do they think act and feel towards success,  what did they do, and so that's the fastest path   to building a new neural map is by learning  through a proven track record of others.   Now, it doesn't mean that you need to become them  and lose the self and lose your beautiful traits   and values. It means that there is a formula there  that has produced a result that you would like to   experience the same or similar to so when we  think about identity drives behavior. We must   first look at what is the preferred upgraded  version of your experience that you desire.   Now, what is your identity in that successful  environment in that new future reality. Who are you?   You know, are you waking up at this time and  going to bed at this time. Do you have a specific   morning routine that supports productivity and  efficiency and ease and flow and balance, you   know what are you doing during the day. Are you  have you got 10 things on your list that you're   just hustling and grinding all day every day  or you're picking one to three things that are   aligned with your desired end and focusing on the  completion of those one to three tasks each day   or each week or each quarter whatever it may  be. From this perspective then you are now   observing a new identity and you're  placing moving the identity in into action   through your behavior. So neuroplasticity wise  behavior drives change and for change to take   hold and become permanent, it must be repeated. So  when you think about the um ten thousand hours to   to master something, typically around a PHD which  I've spoken about in other podcast episodes as   well, is we have PDH's in lots of areas of our  life. However you can wire your brain and your   physiology your biology and your energetic field.  Your energetic signature to the desired end a lot   faster than 10,000 hours because remember hours  is time and time subscribe to slows things down   and that it means that I need to do all this work  in order to reap the results. However, if you have   identified your result, your preferred upgraded end  and now you have researched who else has similar   uh results in their life or in their business  and look at what they do and study them.   Then you are reverse engineering the process of  success. Now you can go about installing behaviors   that are aligned with your new future. Rather  than trying to override and compete with the   behaviors that have produced the results  you're currently producing. Makes sense? So   when you look at behavior then you're thinking  behavior is not just action, it's how I think, how   I act and how I feel that essentially is your  state of being, is your identity so the state of   being is uh the sum total of your thoughts, action  feelings, which essentially is your personality.   You can change your personality through focused  intent and willful direction of your energy and   aligned, aligning your thoughts and your feelings  towards your desired end in the now moment. So if   you go back and listen to any of the bending  reality, I think bending reality number one and   some of the other episodes as well where I talk  about the fastest path from point A to point B   is to fold the page, is to place it place B on  top of A so it is in a superposition it's in   an elevated position and you enroll yourself  as the identity in B into the now moment and   you revisit that like a tuning fork. You are tuning  yourself to the frequency of your preferred future.   You're tuning yourself to the frequency of your  new identity. So let's just take a step back for   a moment. You are not your identity, let's just  get that really really straight. Your identity   is a mask, it's something that you wear and  that that mask that you wear performs a role   and that role drives behavior and that  the behavior then creates the results.  Okay, so when you take a step back and you  think that I am an infinite point of awareness   that is focusing on the now moment.  What do I choose to experience now that   through mastery I know will find me in the  new tomorrow? So I'm not thinking what I do   now, will find me sometime in the next three,  four ,five years or ten years and I feel like   I have to wait. You are enrolling yourself as this  new identity, preferred identity aligned with your   ultimate reality into the new future that exists  right now and you rinse and repeat it, you rinse   and repeat it. So with the continuation of that  behavior then your brain, your neurological system   actually increases its functionality it starts  to change its neural mapping and so those neurons   that were wired in a structure and network to  produce the old results now become pruned away   and the energy is freed up so that new  neurological pathways and synaptic junction   connections can be made for a new map and that new  map is the one that you are rinse and repeating in   each moment of each day. Enrolling yourself into.  So that it gains strength and then it becomes a   conscious habit and then an unconscious habit or  subconscious habit and so in previous episodes   talking about the subconscious. Remember the  conscious mind is short-term. It's like the   goldfish, the subconscious mind is long-term.  So habits are built quickly over time and I   say quickly over time because if you do something  once and then you do it twice and then three times   and then you let it go and you don't revisit it  then those neurological pathways that started to   uh to gain strength and to build that new network  become pruned away and that energy is then used   for something else which is why people go back to  their old self. They go back to their old reality   because the strength of their old wiring has  not completely been pruned away and therefore,   they return to default. Okay, to a default  state. So don't return to default practice,   practice, practice and other studies have  produced results around the number eight. Eight   times rinse and repeating eight times  not just in one day or eight sessions   or eight days as an example but the multiple of  eight is really really important. So if you can   string your morning and evening routine together  and you can string your days together and then you   can string some weeks together then quite quickly.  That magic number eight is really helping to fire   and wire new a new neural net for yourself and  wire you to a future that you prefer in the now   moment because you're focusing on the expression  of the new identity through the behaviors of   now, this day, this moment, not waiting for next  week, not waiting for next month or next year.   Now, so, I'd love your feedback on this episode. Let  me know what your thoughts and feelings are around   that. I hope it's uh lifted the lid on your can of  worms and yeah, clearing up some of those cobwebs   in our thinking and our beliefs around identity  and that we are fixed and trapped in time in   the same identity for the rest of our lives  therefore destined to experience the same results.   That's not true at all. So uh, from me  here to wherever you are in the world.   Dream about a dream and remember. It's  all you baby. See you in the field 