 This is a public service message by the Ohio Department of Higher Education, the Ohio Cyber Range Institute and the University of Dayton Center for Cybersecurity & Data Intelligence. With more and more of our accounts moving online, the threat surface for cybercriminals, hackers and thieves to attack has only grown. Even if you don’t think you’re a target, you are. Even if you are careful with your own account credentials, a mistake made by a provider could mean your data has been breached, opening you to identity theft. If that happens, it can be a challenge to clean up. Identity theft is when somebody is able to take key information about you and create a new identity, one that you may not even know about. How do you avoid this? There are services out there for which you can pay that will monitor your credit and notify you if accounts have been created in your name, but there are some fairly easy steps you can take to monitor your own identity. The federal government mandates that each credit reporting bureau (Experian, Equifax and TransUnion) must provide you with one credit report each year. If you space those out, taking one every four months, you’re able to check your credit yourself. What should you be looking for? You should look closely for any accounts that you don’t recognize. These can be bank loans, credit card accounts or other kinds of loans. If you see these, it’s evidence that somebody has stolen your identity to open accounts and access funds in your name. You should contact the credit bureau and/or law enforcement. In addition to the free reports mandated by government, many of the credit agencies involved offer their own services for no financial cost (though they may use them to advertise products and services). Examples are Credit.com, Creditkarma.com, and CreditSesame.com and Nerdwallet.com. In addition to credit reports, they show a credit score. Armed with the information from these free services, you can keep tabs on your credit and your identity. A public-service message from the Ohio Department of Higher Education, the Ohio Cyber Range Institute and the University of Dayton Center for Cybersecurity & Data Intelligence. 