   (UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYS)   In episode three, Caitlin being, uh, this kind of tomboy girl, who finds in Fraser her best friend, and possibly a door that opens into a new garden for her. A new way-- A new place to discover herself. I broke up with Sam. Really? Yeah, I get the feeling people think we're dating. What?! The relationship between Fraser and Caitlin is unlike any other on the show in that they're going through kind of the same issues. They don't really know how to place themselves in this society on this Army base. They're the ones that kinda stick out the most. Yeah, I can only describe it as magical. -It's just a beautiful... -Totally magical. ...relationship. People naturally gravitate because it's a girl and a boy, and they're like, "Oh, the two of you are dating." She's like, "Yeah, sure, whatever. Whatever-- Think what you want to think." JACK GRAZER: But he doesn't  really enjoy that that's what people are saying. He's kind of afraid of affection. I feel she just is at the point where she just doesn't really care about what people are thinking. The greatest friendship, the greatest love affair starts with a sense of distance from the subject. We have, in Caitlin, someone that completely understands that Fraser is a sort of soulmate, a kindred spirit for her. Immediately she understands that also the family is part of that. JORDAN SEAMON:  Caitlin has this fascination because she's on a military base and things are kind of straight forward, and all of a sudden this beautiful woman comes in and she's openly gay. And Caitlin is just in utter shock that women can like women as well. And, you know, she doesn't see that as much on the base. She comes from a heterosexual relationship so she's attracted to it, and she wants to know more about it. CHLOE SEVIGNY: Caitlin is kind of questioning a lot of things, and Sarah is encouraging that in her. LUCA GUADAGNINO:  Caitlin sees in Sarah someone that can understand her more than someone who she's very close by, like the father. Want to stay for dinner? SEVIGNY: The home life,  like during the dinner scene, our dynamic is pretty weird. When he was a little boy, he used to put together these looks. (CHUCKLES) He'd get a towel and wrap it on his head like a turban. Come on, show her how you used to do it, it was adorable. -It doesn't sound-- -Come on! Sarah kind of gets to let loose a little bit. She is trying to have fun with him, and also get him to have fun and lighten up. But she doesn't quite know how to do that, and it's very, I think, typical of a mother-teen dynamic. And he obviously acts out in certain ways against that. -You're a witch! You're a witch! -Ow! -Let go of me. -I hate you. I hate you. You're hurting me-- What is wrong with you, Fraser? I hate you! -Just stay out of this! -Ow! Fraser and Sarah have a very feisty relationship. They kind of mirror one another. And they have this intimacy, this physical relationship with one another. That sometimes is like a little blurry or a little weird. Fraser's just, uh, a prick sometimes. I was just trying to be nice to your girlfriend. By ridiculing me? You went out of your way to embarrass me. Anytime there is a little bit of scuffling or violence, generally it's not rehearsed, and therefore it becomes more real. Don't be jealous just because she likes me. Hey! Let go of me! Let go of me! I want to fucking kill you! -I want to fucking kill you! -Enough, enough. That's kind of the structure of the family. Luca kept saying all the time, like, "You girls have each other's back." You can't imagine what it's like to have your own son say he hates you to your face. I think Maggie feels the desire to be acknowledged as a mom, as someone that is part of it. Maggie came into her life before Fraser was even born, so she is a mother figure. But I also kind of... don't give her as much room as maybe I should and our dynamic is pretty weird. We're dealing with a teenager who's in an environment where he doesn't want to be. So there's a lot of different things at play. It's a relationship that has love, and has conflict. Fraser is a boy who wants attention. Maggie is just a wife who wants to be acknowledged by being a mom. Sarah just wants to be in charge of it all. You have a traditional family, but at the same time, it's not traditional at all. SEVIGNY: I think  it exemplifies also the show. In the vivid intellectual curiosity of Fraser lies the boldness of Sarah in affirming her own ideas. I think the show really explores different family dynamics and that's what's so interesting about it. (CROWD CHATTERING)   (MUSIC CONCLUDES)   