 CAITLIN POYTHRESS: Are we really doing this? Many times, when we are teenagers, we do something to our features, to the way we look that's some kind of flesh out  dramatically what we are not  able to say. -Oh, my god. Oh, my god. -Holy shit! -Oh, my god. -(LAUGHS) Oh my-- fuck! Fuck! Oh, my god. Okay. JORDAN KRISTINE SEAMÓN:  I have never gotten my hair cut. I've never had it trimmed. I've nev-- I was born with a full head of hair, so I'd-- I don't know-- I didn't know what my head looked like. And I forgot for a short period of time that we were filming a television show. So, I started screaming. CAITLIN: It's really bad. SEAMÓN: It was such  a thrilling experience,  and I love it so much. Our subjectivity doesn't necessarily happen in the reflection of a mirror. It happens in the reflection  of other people's gaze.  So, once she has taken off  the hair,  intuitively, she knows  that people will look at her  differently,  and that way of looking at her  will help her solidify what  she wants to be perceived as. And there's so much evolution there. The thoughts that she's had all her life probably all add up, and it's put into action. And we both like commit it, and we're like, "You have to be you." SEAMÓN: I think  she definitely feels alone mainly because she fears of not being accepted. And when you're not sure if anyone else will accept you, you kind of feel alone.  You don't know where to go or who to turn to or who you should actually talk about -how you're feeling with... -Mm-hmm. SEAMÓN:   ...and finally finding someone  that just accepts you for who you are regardless. And, uh, just doesn't question anything, is really sweet. And Caitlin  found that in Fraser, so she feels less alone with him  and, you know,  they're just being alone  together. I know how things were under the previous commander. But now, we're gonna uphold a higher standard. That's why you're gonna apologize to this gentleman. Me? SARAH WILSON: On behalf of your men. Richard doesn't like Sarah from the very beginning. You kinda see their relationship get more tense throughout the season.  He is not a fan of her  being in charge,  being his superior. And definitely because he is afraid of her influence on his daughter, and she's kind of taken his daughter under her wing a little.  And the daughter's come over  to dinner a bunch, and she's, you know, befriended  my son.  And, you know, my son's  a little bit of a wild card.  And he's very showy and... And I think Richard is-- is just very suspicious -of our family in general. -SCOTT MESCUDI: Very. I don't want you to see those people. They're just gonna fill your head with shit. You think you're smarter than me, don't you? But you're just a little girl. You don't know a thing about what's it's like in the world for people like us. That was a really big moment where you see Richard -kind of blow up for the first time. -Yeah. He's just really... really angry, you know, that she would do something like this to herself 'cause he loves her, you know.  That's, like, his baby  right there. The world is clearly divided in two. On one side, we have the teenagers with their... urgency of life and desire  and love and sexuailty  and in a way, free.  And on the other hand,  their parents,  they're the adult world,  where the attempt is to--  is always to manipulate  feelings and urgencies  of desire issues. How many things are you gonna turn your back on in a single lifetime, Mom? I think that I am restless in my life as a filmmaker in trying to find the... what makes someone. It's less about being up to date  with the current,  and more about the old adage  of trying to understand  who we are always.  I believe that we all  go through processes  in which we really don't know  who we are, and we really need to experiment  who we could be.  Because it's part  of the human nature to be whoever you wanna be. 