 What if I told you the most insightful piece of media ever to be made as a result of James Rolfe... is a Burger King ad? [BGM: Game Dude theme song] For those of you who aren't familiar, the Game Dude, also known as Alexander4488, is an oft-criticized self-admitted Angry Video Game Nerd-inspired former reviewtainer, best known for his Game Dude series wherein he talks about particular video games whilst insulting them in new and colorful ways. [GAME DUDE] Barbie is one of those sh-- While the main Alexander4488 channel is gone, and I don't know how complete the archives are, his Game Dude Official channel remains, where we find this skit, based on the Burger King "Have It Your Way" commericals. The video opens with Alexander surprising his friend and roommate with Burger King brand burger meal food: A meal for Alexander and a burger for his friend. His friend discovers that the burger has onions when he usually has them hold the onions, and concludes that Burger King employees are such elite foodsmiths that this could only be possible in a dream. Alexander concurs [is skeptical], and now that the dream is lucid, he makes a suggestion: [GAME DUDE] Turn yourself into... a talking animal. [GD'S FRIEND] A talking animal? What's the matter with you-- [HOWLS] [SFX: a shipping container falling from a crane?] [NARRATOR] Burger King: Have it your way. After the slogan, a stinger plays out, revealing that the dream has covered such a large time frame that Alexander's friend has clogged the shower drain with hair... ...and that, with the infinite power of lucid dreaming, he still wants to eat Burger King. I find the interplay between the characters in this video odd for the context. To show you what I mean, I'm going to roll back a minute and run through the video again to examine the motives and actions of the characters closer. Alexander starts with an apparent display of generosity by buying food for himself and getting a little something extra for his dear buddy and pal. His friend finds the burger not made to his special dietary preferences, and voices this concern angrily. Alexander blames the restaurant, gently calling its employees incompetent... [GAME DUDE] Hmm, they must have made a mistake. ...but his friend respects Burger King so much that he's unable to accept this as a reasonable conclusion. Why? Because it's a Burger King commerical and fuck you. That's how we'll fill that hole for now. Alexander's skeptical of his friend's conclusion that it's a dream and demands proof, which he receives when his friend's physical features are altered. His friend doesn't realize this has happened until a few moments after it's happened, and in those few moments Alexander grins triumphantly, the intellectual victor. Afterwards, Alexander demands that the dream end so that he is relieved from menial household labor, and his friend is remorseful for having inconvenienced him. [GAME DUDE] Hey, are you gonna wake up soon? [GAME DUDE] You're leaving furballs in the drain. [GD'S FRIEND] Sorry. I have to wonder, having watched the video, whose dream this is really meant to be. Suppose it's the friend's dream, take the video at face value. His realization comes when he finds himself eating a meal he doesn't enjoy, and being unable to accept the explanation. Alexander's attribution of the error to Burger King's employees is so unpalatable that it yanks him into lucidity. Granted, dream logic is often unusual, but that this was his trigger to achieve lucidity suggests a preoccupation with Burger King prior to the dream, that it was on his mind. But this would suggest that he legitimately does respect Burger King as a culinary institution, or highly appreciates that he can, indeed, "have it his way". Perhaps he is or was a Burger King employee, but... I'm not satisfied with that explanation because then I feel like his dream would see him in that same role, maybe dealing with an unreasonable workload, like a huge lunch rush, or a massive order from an impatient customer, or a burger with ingredients that are unusual or that he is expected to procure but doesn't know where to find them. Additionally, why would he have Alexander demand that, for all intents and purposes, he prove to himself that he's lucidly dreaming? While I haven't lucidly dreamed myself, at least not to my recall, I hear that there can be an element of micromanaging when you have NPCs. Maybe he knows Alexander well enough that his subconscious can construct a dream representation of him without conscious maintenance, but even then he could just snap his fingers and suddenly Alexander believes. It's an unnecessary barricade to his dream to have someone there to do nothing but challenge him. I'm also curious as to what he chooses to do as the deity of a lucid dream. In this world that bows to his every whim regardless of reason and universal law, he chooses to take a shower and give himself the shitty, watered-down fast food restaurant soda that was missing from his take of Alexander's purchase. Wielding infinite power over the fabric of reality, he chooses to live his ordinary life except wolf, without granting himself even the dream cliche of flight. If this really is his dream, then he has a serious lack of imagination, or a rare Pilkingtonesque contentment with his lot in life. [RICKY GERVAIS] Within this scenario, I gave you any life, you could do anything, [RICKY GERVAIS] and you chose the exact life you've got now, [RICKY GERVAIS] except Susanne's got a day off. Although if he is so lacking in imagination, it's odd that the main feature of the dream is so anomalously imaginative. Sure, the reins are still there, considering he elects not to make himself a color scheme that would make my eyes bleed or HP Lovecraft cream his pantaloons, but I would think most people would settle for flight, invisibility, mancy, wealth, a girlfriend, or some other revered but physically impossible feat. But even if this is really all he wants, why is Alexander still getting in his way? Even aside from the skepticism, he's at odds with Alexander in his own lucid dream. He makes himself the victim of a "something on my face" gag... [PHILLIP J. FRY] Why are you all staring at me like that? [PHILLIP J. FRY] Is there something on my face? ...and while maybe he allows himself to appear falliable, even if his lucidity begets omniscience, for narrative purpose, it would seem peculiar that someone who wholeheartedly respects the fast food industry is capable of nuance. On top of that, unless he has some Rain Man or Tom Clancy level of knowledge or research that he can subconsciously recall the workings of indoor plumbing, he wills himself into having caused an issue with the shower, wills Alexander to have to clean up after him and take issue with it, and wills himself to be shameful over this. He decides of his own accord to use his dream to explore the consequences of a fantastical scenario applied to a realistic world... and drink a Burger King soda. If he didn't have such a terrible taste in drinks I might have let this slide, but... I'm just not buying it. So... what if it's Alexander's dream? It looks like a reasonable conclusion after that examination. He seems to have a free mind. But it's just as unsatisfying as the conclusion the video steers us toward. Sure, he's acting more real than his shill roommate, but he's calling bullshit on the possibility of his own dream. If we take him at face value, he's trying to avoid lucidity. And don't forget that his friend is the one who vocalized the idea that it was a dream in the first place. Again, one might call it falliability for the sake of narrative, but he's otherwise portrayed as the better man. His metaphysical challenge is played off as him attempting and succeeding at humiliating his friend, and in the stinger he's either willing himself to do chores, which I again consider out-of-character if this is his dream, or playing the moral victor. However, the "something on my face" gag makes a lot more sense if you look at it from the perspective of Alexander rather than of his friend; he comes off to me like the kind of person who would make other people look stupider than him in a lucid dream, and he's shown to have more knowledge of the situation. There's merit to this interpretation... but there's another perspective to consider. What if this isn't distinctly one or the other's dream? It's possible that, say, in this reality, Alexander and his roommate are in a shared dream, or some sort of projection or pocket dimension, or whatever you want to call it. Something that isn't a product of one's mind or the other, but an extradimensional space created, or at least inhabited, by their slumbering consciousnesses. (Do note that it couldn't be within either mind, because then they'd be able to read each other's thoughts,) (or their thoughts would be one and the same, and it raises the whole new problem of who's the host dreamer.) (It answers questions by introducing new ones.) (This has to be an extradimensional space for this hypothesis to work.) So in this space, they are omnipotent, but not omniscient. As soon as they realize it's not their home dimension, both their consciousnesses awaken and gain the ability to affect the world they're in. But if that's the case, it's a fucking boring pocket dimension. If I were in a collaborative multiconsciousness dreamscape, I wouldn't sit at home drinking shitty soda and making my partner fix the fucking plumbing I broke. There would be no broken plumbing because neither of us would want to have such mundane inconveniences. We'd be doing something impossible or really difficult, like... magical killing sprees, or... bringing down the twin towers, considering the people I know. And these two sure as hell ain't playing it cool and waiting for the other guy to make the first move. It would appear that they got what they wanted and just decided to chill for the rest of the dream. So I'm going to make a different proposal: This is canon to the Game Dude continuity. Look at the title: "Game Dude Burger King TV Spot". The character played by Alexander Badr is the Game Dude, and this happened in the Game Dude world. Let's get relative here. AVGN-style reviewtainers are known for being weirdness magnets. All sorts of wacky hijinks happen while the camera's on, like characters jumping out of the game and/or breaking shit. Furthermore, AVGN-style reviewtainers are imbued with reality-warping powers beyond the laws of physics. It's like every other guy who talks about video games is some kind of minor god of gaming. The Angry Video Game Nerd is a benevolent gaming demigod. He collects video games to seal them up in his gaming den like a Pandora's Box of shit fuck, and after playing the games and inviting escape, slays the horrors that lie beyond the cartridge, one by one. The Game Dude is not a benevolent gaming demigod. He still destroys games, but it's personal. He destroys games simply out of spite. [GAME DUDE] Banjo, you're next. The forces that the Nerd is sworn to contain are of no concern to the Dude. They exist only for his validation. If General Custer himself flew out of a game and fucked the entire population of Canada, he wouldn't so much as raise a finger so long as the General agreed that Custer's Revenge was an ass load of fuck dick. [KIRBY INHALES] [GAME DUDE] Exactly. So how does this relate to the Burger King skit? Well, the Game Dude is a reality warper, and the Game Dude is a tyrant. He has a callous disregard for humanity. Let's run through one more time. You'll see what I mean. So the Game Dude surprises his friend with some Burger King. A meal for the Game Dude. A burger for his friend. According to fastfoodmenuprices.com, a medium whopper meal from a US Burger King is about $7.10, which is about $9.50 in Canadian dollars. If we assume that the Dude bought a medium whopper meal and one whopper, and there are no price differences between the US and Canada, the Dude might have spent about USD$11.30/CAD$15.20 on this purchase. Two medium whopper meals would have cost about USD$14.20/CAD$19, which is a pretty small price difference. And if he has to have a roommate to share costs with, and if he's scrounging so hard that he has to cut costs to save four dollars, he'd be better off not buying fast food in the first place. Either he has very poor financial skills... or he's just an asshole. Whatever generosity he can muster, he believes his friend should be grateful for. Let's stop and look at his friend's reaction to him entering the room: he traces along horizontally, and once he sees who it is, his eyes jerk upwards as he makes wide-eyed eye contact. So right away we know he's paying special attention. Maybe it's because the Dude brought food. Maybe it's because the Dude usually has something to say or some motive when he enters the room. Maybe it's because the Dude brought food, and it's unusual for him to do so. Let's keep going. The Game Dude sits down across the table, handing his friend the single burger, who accepts it while shutting his computer with the other hand. He puts the computer away, and bites into the burger. So where are we right now? It's clearly a bedroom: the coat rack on the door, the decorations a short distance behind, the furniture. But what else is going on here? The Game Dude invites himself in and sits down across the table, where his friend has been sitting with his computer facing away from the door. They begin to eat here. Usually if there's a space within a house that contains both the dining room and another room, if we exclude the kitchen, the other room would be the living room. It's an odd choice to have a combination bedroom and dining room, so we can assume this isn't the designated eating space unless the Dude is living in an architectural abomination. So whose bedroom is it? We don't see the beds, so we don't know if they have separate bedrooms or share this one room. But given that the Game Dude's friend has put himself in such a position that the only place you can't see the screen is entering the room, it's not unreasonable to conclude that there's some expectation of privacy. Yes, he has the computer all the way off to the side and facing out, but who the hell would honestly use a computer like that? For the purposes of this hypothesis, I'll let this go as a cinematographic technique to keep as much of the friend in frame as possible. So the Game Dude's walked into his friend's bedroom, sat down and started eating, giving his friend a paltry share. Putting the computer away rather than simply pushing it aside and moving over if necessary may-- and I say may, for I don't want to be chasing ghosts here-- indicate a protectiveness over the computer. Maybe he's doing something he doesn't want anyone to see. Maybe he's doing something he doesn't want the Game Dude to see. Maybe he doesn't want the Game Dude in here, near his computer. So the friend finds onions in his burger. He seems to really not like onions. Perhaps he's allergic. Perhaps it's an unwelcome sensation, and the flavor or texture of onions is something of a sensory overload. Whatever the case, he delivers his complaint accusingly. It seems as if he's suspicious that the Game Dude has wilfully disrespected his special dietary preferences, but isn't quite ready to call him out on it. The Dude shrugs it off, blaming the employees for getting the order wrong, but... I think he just didn't care. I think he deliberately failed to request no onions. The Game Dude's friend isn't able to reconcile the incorrect order with the "have it your way" slogan, taking it for an accurate representation of the product rather than a marketing tactic and expecting that, even when he isn't present to order, any Burger King food he eats will be to his preferences. This is where I'd like to put forward a subhypothesis: The Game Dude's friend is autistic, or otherwise socially disabled. Sure, there are other mental disorders that prevent distinguishment between fiction and reality, but... come on: wolf. If you haven't figured out what I'm saying by now: the Game Dude is a troll. He's tormenting a disabled man for his own amusement, while pretending to be his friend. He knows that his roommate takes advertising at face value, and he's manipulating his roommate into a distressing logical conflict. Unable to find a reasonable explanation, he dives into magical thinking and fantasy... and the Dude capitalizes. He decides to gaslight his roommate into thinking he's in control of the situation, when the reality is that it is reality, and it's at the mercy of the Dude. The roommate sees what's been done, and concludes that it's the product of his own subconscious, and finds himself unable to revert. How does he deal with this? Pretty well, actually. We come to the stinger an unspecified amount of time later, at least a day and probably no more than a week, and he's come to terms with it. Such a drastic change accepted in such a short time is bizarre. It's almost... dysphoric. The Game Dude continues to manipulate his roommate by nitpicking his new biological features to induce guilt. And that's all he can do because his roommate is fine with the new status quo. Here's what I think happened: The wolf was originally conceptualized by the roommate as a representation of himself, a sort of escapism. The Dude found out, perhaps he came into the room one day and his roommate couldn't alt-tab fast enough. With this little prank, the Dude wanted to put his roommate in an ironic hell. The idealized version of his body could never function in the real world with his normal consciousness. But he failed to see how invested his roommate was, and how detached. Sufficient withdrawal from society to be able to and to have to function from entirely within the home is possible. Maybe he's taking an online college course. Maybe he works from home. Maybe he's self-employed. Who knows. But the roommate's life is disrupted in no way by this, and the Dude, the filthy neurotypical, has done him a favor. But the Dude doesn't want to give his roommate this victory. He doesn't want to accept that he's unintentionally brought his roommate in line with his roommate's idealized identity. He wants to recall the taste of contentment he's accidentally bestowed. The nitpicking like that wacky funny shower joke is part of a plan to drive his roommate to such an intense emotional disarray that the Dude can change him back, while convincing him that he's done it himself, that he's woken up, taking advantage of his difficulty telling fiction and reality by acting as if everything else in the dream really happened-- because it did. That the roommate has found peace with an identity that now matches his body is an inconvenience for the Dude. He doesn't want to deal with all the abnormalities of such an abnormal citizen. He wants the roommate he knows. That he's always known. That he's complacent in percieving him as. But that isn't happy with his own body. And so, by trying to pull a fast one on his roommate, the Game Dude has in fact built his own ironic hell. In throwing his roommate a curveball that he'll now have to deal with for the rest of his life, he's put himself into the position of mediator between his roommate, an oddity that defies traditional societal expectations, stirs up complex, uncomfortable ethical questions and arguably plays God just by existing, and the cold, harsh real world that just doesn't have the emotional investment to give the Dude's roommate a chance to show he isn't just a freakshow who put his body on the line just because he was antsy around mirrors. The Dude has forced himself to have to become an... ally of sorts to his roommate; an advocate to society on the behalf of a new minority. The allegory here is leagues beyond what I thought could be conveyed in a 30-second clip. And that's my interpretation of the Game Dude Burger King video. It truly is one of the most thoughtful videos on YouTube from the early 2010s, and there are depths to it that I think people have been missing. Or Alexander Badr tried and failed to write an excuse for gratuitous wolf. 