 With the rise of Internet, we have become highly accustomed to online monetary transactions while saving tons of personal details online. But with added convenience, the Internet has also left us more vulnerable to cybercrime, especially Identity Theft. Hello, my name is Shivani and today we shall discuss about various precautions internet users must take to prevent Identity Theft. Getting your personal details stolen can have a serious financial impact and could also cause a major setback to your reputation, in case you run a business. So without further ado, let’s go through some immediate safety measures you must take to safeguard your personal details online. Check Your Accounts and Credit Reports Regularly Make sure that you constantly monitor your credit reports. Keep a track on payment activities to make sure that any unauthorized access hasn’t been granted into your credit account. Guard Your Social Security Number Like A Treasure There’s a reason why 2 social security numbers cannot be the same. This number is as unique as your identity. Just flag any site or any online platform that asks you to enter your SSN or national identity details. It’s a definite scam. Protect Your Passwords At All Costs Passwords act like barriers between your online treasures and data thieves. Make your passwords complex so they can’t be easily guessed as most hackers go for trial and error to breach your online accounts. Add special characters, mixed cases, and numerals to your passwords to make their job hard. False Mails and Suspicious Attachments Are A Big No Avoid clicking on links in emails that offer credit cards, cash back offers, and shopping vouchers. The valid information on such offers is never sent exclusively to you via mail. Such emails account for phishing attacks and can be harmful to your online identity. Use An Identity Protection Tool (Advanced Identity Protector) Using an Identity Protection Tool makes it even easier to protect yourself from identity theft. We would personally recommend Advanced Identity Protector by Systweak. This identity theft prevention tool makes sure that absolutely no one can get their hands on your personal information without your permission. Advanced Identity Protector secures your accounts by scanning your computer and web browsers for traces of your information and passwords. You can then encrypt all this information for complete security. Here are some of the best features of Advanced Identity Protector. • Wipes any traces of personal information • Scans browser, emails, files and registry for identity traces • Protects sensitive information with military-grade encryption. At the end of the day, You are responsible for the protection of your personal information from theft. The sooner you detect an issue, the sooner you can fix it! We hope you like this video. For more of such tips and tricks, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. 