 Have you ever heard of being a prisoner of your  own identity? I did! I asked myself this question:   Am I a prisoner of my identity? This is going to  be a thought-provoking video, ladies and gentlemen. I think that many of us have no clue of  who they truly are. The thing is that the   identity most of us believe we have has been  taught to us from when we were very young. I'm talking about being shaped. Conditioned  through the years into a certain identity.   I see an identity as a collection of  attributes that defines how we see ourselves   which is based on a number of things.  Examples are our culture, nationality   religion, friends and family, political preferences  and the class of society we live in and the more I advance through life, the more I walk on a path  less traveled by others. The further I get on   that path, the more i feel disconnected  with these attributes I just mentioned. I simply don't want those things to define me. I am  a unique human being. A 100% authentic. Just like you! I don't want to be a prisoner of my identity  anymore so, in this video I'm going to share with   you what's helping me along my journey because  I think we all arrive at some point in our lives   that we want to know who we truly are. During  that process we are likely to search for certain   individuals, groups, religions or philosophies to  relate ourselves with. This means that   we are seeking for the source of our identity  not within ourselves but outside of ourselves. Don't you think we should seek internally instead?  We tend to search for it everywhere besides inside   ourselves and the only thing we are actually doing  is trying to find a label to put on ourselves. You know (sorry for the wind) but I think that  finding a label equals looking for a persona   to identify oneself with and this is quite  dangerous in my opinion. Let me explain why.  A persona is an aspect of someone's character  that is presented TO or perceived BY other people.   And in ancient Latin the word "persona" meant "mask".  Because of looking externally for an identity to   relate with, you start to play some kind of role  in order to see if you're feeling comfortable   with that identity/persona. This leads to you putting on a persona, which simply means  wearing a mask and if you do that for too   long, you might forget who is the person behind  the mask. In that case you really have to think.   Because you have become really a prisoner of  your identity. You are trapped in the illusion   of believing that you know who you truly are. This  illusion becomes easier to believe in as social   pressure is growing, especially these days. When  you are sensitive to social pressure it becomes   really easy to enter that trap and once entered  it can lead to attaching yourself to a label to   be defined by. Why would you want something like  that? I think it's important to stop trying to   find a label to be defined by and  to start looking deeply within yourself to prevent   becoming a prisoner of your identity. You know,  it provides a great sense of freedom when you   stop attaching a label to yourself and it creates  the space necessary to discover who you truly are.  When we allow ourselves to be defined, limitations  are lurking around the corner and those   limitations they are ready to enter your mind  to separate you - creating limited belief systems   which are holding you back from discovering who  you truly are. Your authentic self. The moment you   put yourself into a specific category you slowly  become one with that category and will eventually   only accept and believe the things that are  supporting that category/belief system.  This is where people stop learning! Okay people,  make sure to like this video and to subscribe   to my channel as in the next video we will  continue talking about this. Stay tuned. Peace! 