 Hey everybody! Dan Holstein here coming to you from the Scaling Up Conference in Atlanta, the Scaling Up Summit. I'm here with Coach Karie Kaufmann. Hey Karie, hows it going? You know we're at this conference for a lot of reasons. To learn, and to grow and also to become. So, part of the reason that we're here is identity growth, and we were just talking about base lining and identifying what that means, to grow our identity. So what's your interpretation of growing an identity? Growing an identity is thinking about the person that you need to become, to achieve the results that you want to achieve. Perhaps you have experienced, or maybe have a friend who's experienced where, they maybe get in their own way. They have big goals, but they're not there yet. They don't have the identity to match where they're going and we find a way to sabotage or kind of screw it up. Where you find yourself hitting a ceiling and it's because you don't have the identity yet to achieve what you want to achieve. Have you seen business owners who have had to really shift how they see themselves and their identity in order to achieve a result? Yeah, business owners and people I know personally, and myself as well for things, I can think of one individual where, in his business he's very hands-on, blue collar, kind of business owner, amazing guy, super intelligent. And he's actually now talking with other business owners that are looking to maybe buy his business. These guys have these large multi-national companies are talking to this guy, and he's running a small business of about 10 staff. He's saying, why are these guys talking to me? They are talking to me as a peer, I look at them as they're sort of up here, so that I look after. So they're seeing him as a peer, he really is a savvy guy, but he's come from some humble roots and he's this really humble guy. He doesn't see himself as a bit of a big deal. The people that he's communicating with in business do see him on their level, that executive, that successful level. So his identity is I'm maybe a little bit more basic in my business acumen but they see him as actually quite accomplished. How would you coach somebody like that to continue to grow? Because sooner or later, if you kind of see yourself as, this is who I am, this is what I'm about and maybe you're vision conflicts with that. The first thing I would address on that is, why are you thinking you are the way you are? What inputs are leading you to believe that this is a truth for you? And then if we go into define the belief, beliefs can change! It's something you hold true at the moment. I would challenge that. I would then maybe shine the light on some other evidence that they may not be willing to notice of how they are actually growing their identity. I heard a quote, I don't remember who said it, but a while back that said, a beliefs only job is to validate its existence. So once you believe something, you're constantly looking for proof to validate what you've already chosen to be true. So we tend to ignore things that would disprove our belief because we have already locked it in. It's like confirmation bias, constantly confirming your biased in what you believe. One of my favorite quotes from Jim Rohn, is when he said, set a goal to become a millionaire, for what it will make of you to achieve it. Because that comes down to identity. The person that you have to become in order to be that kind of leader, be that kind of visionary, have that business savvy and that acumen or whatever other skills come along with that. You have to become that person to achieve that kind of result. Right! So we think about who do we need to become, we have to be aware of our environment as well. One of the things that Jim Rohn says, he's a guy that I just love his teachings, sometimes we have to have expanded association and sometimes we have to have limited association. Expanded association being, hanging out more with the people that we want to become like, limited association is limiting the amount of association and hanging out with the people that maybe aren't on the same growth journey or don't believe in us or don't support us or maybe even actually pull us down from the goals and dreams that we are trying to accomplish. I think there's a handful of things that when we talk about environment associations are a huge, huge part of that. You're the average of the five people that you spend the most time with. But there's a few other things, like some other things that you can do to have a more positive impact on your identity. Like what are some of the other things that you do besides associations? I would say, even just writing out my goals! Knowing where I'm going. Clarity! Yeah absolutely, clarity. But then how to process as well. Making sure that it's not just pie in the sky, that oh I am going to do this, or become this, I need some level of a framework to tell me how I am going to do that. Yeah. So I can sense progress. For me personally, if I'm not feeling like I'm moving forward, it's a little bit discouraging, so I want to make sure that I've got measurement so that I can see the incremental, little changes day by day or week by week that I am actually becoming closer to where I want to be. If that's in terms of my identity or what I am signing up to accomplish. A tip, something that I do for myself regularly, and I challenge my clients to do it at least a couple of times per year, is a process I call a mental cleanse. I used to call it a mental diet, but much like a food diet, it's about restricting. Where as a cleanse isn't just about not eating the junk food, it's about also eating the kale. It's not just about what you leave out, it's about what you put in. So a mental cleanse for me looks like usually maybe 30 days. Could be 1 day, could be a week, a year, doesn't matter, but for a defined period of time, that is predetermined, I won't read, watch or listen to, or discuss anything that doesn't either educate me or inspire me. Even neutral stuff, just music, nice things on the radio, whatever movie, all of that is cut out. If it's not 100% healthy for my mindset, it doesn't get to go in. So it takes some level of planning to make sure that happens. It does, yeah absolutely. I do plan for it. I'll load up or cue up audio books or podcasts or if it is music, it is music that inspires me or lifts me up. Every single time I've done it, you come out the end of it a different person. I grow, my business grows, your outlook grows, your positivity, it's really huge for an identity shift. What I feel is if I'm being more disciplined, I feel better about myself, I'm not maybe letting myself down or off the hook on certain things, that has an additive component to it. I think that's a multiplying effect. The content, whatever your reading, or watching, or listening to alone, builds you up, makes you stronger, shifts your perspective on top of the compounded of doing what you say you're going to do and following through. I think its both. We've talked about environment, associations, intake, I think another big one is what you say when you talk to yourself. Right? Yes, if we think about self talk for a second, how often are your comments generally positive versus generally negative? About yourself? Just about yourself. I can, I can't, good enough, not good enough, smart enough, not smart enough whatever you want to say. When you are thinking about what's possible, do you lift yourself up or is it more of a diminishing thought? Think about some of the things you tell yourself? Would you hang out with somebody that sat and told you those things? Or would you ever say it to another human being? Right! Of course you wouldn't, because it's so terrible and mean! But yet you might say it to yourself, all day long! So I think the other part is you have to be kind and patient with ourselves while we're growing, that we don't dismiss the negative thoughts immediately, we have to question it a little bit and then think to ourselves, would I say that to an 8 year old kid? Right. And then treat ourselves with that kindness and respect that you treat a young kid. It's a mind that's moldable. And if we think about the language we use, it's programming of our brain. And if we say something in our head enough, pretty soon those thoughts will be beliefs which can root themselves very rigidly. What are some of the things that you've seen with your clients in terms of the self talk? Are there any specific affirmations or methods of reaffirming positive things that you've seen them do that made some positive shifts for them? A lot of coaches talk about affirmations, which I think are very powerful but only if done right. I think that the key to an affirmation in your self talk in general that has to be anchored in emotion. So, visualization along with it. And then catching yourself being the person that you want to be. So if you say, when you stare in the mirror in the morning and you're saying nice things about yourself and about what a great leader you are, and then you stop and you have that intentional conversation with one of your employees and when you walk away you say to yourself, yeah I'm a good leader. You're constantly reaffirming that when it's anchored to an emotion and a moment it's not just a thing that you read when you wake up in the morning and a mantra that you.... It's got to be something that is peppered through out your entire day and brings an awareness to it. And then you catch yourself when you're not being kind to yourself or your not serving yourself well. It heightens your awareness so you can change. Absolutely, and a technique that I've had clients use is where they track their positive things that happened throughout the day and the week so that they can refer back and say, hey actually I am growing myself. Look I did do that, I did handle that conflict effectively, I did make that phone callI was nervous about making. Just to make sure that they are actually documenting, because I find that with most entrepreneurs it's go go go, hit a goal, don't even stop to look back, just go for the next one. As opposed to actually stopping for a second and saying, look what I've actually accomplished! Not just accomplished, look who I am becoming through the accomplishments. We always are looking at what's next, so we don't stop and acknowledge the progress that we have made, we only see the list of things that are undone. Or the distance between what we're not yet, or what we've not yet achieved. It can be healthy, because it can be what drives you, but if you're not careful about it, it can also really hold you back. It can be depressing! You achieve something fantastic and you don't stop and luxuriate in that win, it's on to the next thing, we get programmed that success is a never ending series of hard work. And we don't take the time to actually enjoy it! You've got to celebrate! Should we go celebrate? Yes, let's go celebrate! Let's do that! Thanks so much! I really appreciate your insights! Thanks Dan! Awesome to hang! We'd love to hear about your growing your identity, leave a comment below! Feel free to reach out. We look forward to hearing from you! 