 Today I'm going to review what we talked about as the three risk factors that you have with LLC's. We talked about the privacy, we talked about the cost, and we talked about the paperwork. My name is James, I'm the founder of TrustArte, and this is a follow up to our previous video about some of the risky factors that you have with LLC's. And a lot of people don't even know that they have these risk factors when they set up the LLC's. They're just thinking "oh well that's what everybody told me, that's what I'll go get." And so they go do the LLC. They don't realize all the obligations that go along with getting that LLC set up or what's actually gonna follow in the years to come. Tremendous amount of reporting also the expense that goes along with it and then the visibility. Because every time you filed any kind of a new document if you will to do your registration renewal, you do your resident agent, all that stuff is in the public database. And what I want to talk about today is about the business identity theft risk that you have with corporations and LLC's. Specifically LLC's because that's what you're looking at today. And the reason that this is important is because of the fact that there is business identity theft, just like personal identity theft. Now here's just one particular case at big numbers, it's a big stinky mess, but let me just give you an example of how difficult it can really get. There was a company up in Nevada that was an LLC and they owned a fair large piece of land and they had left it sitting for quite a number of years. What happened was someone went in and looked up in the Secretary of State database. They found this LLC in addition to finding this piece of land in the County Recorders Office, Clark County County Recorders Office, so they matched up the County Recorders Office and also the Secretary of State's record, they found that it was owned by this LLC and that the property was actually owned free and clear. So what they did was they went online and they replaced the manager of the LLC and then they wouldn't got a loan against his property. So the original people that actually owned a property didn't even know anything about it. The secretary state didn't have any type of mechanism in there to notify the previous or the existing, if you will, manager of the LLC that somebody else was making a change. So what happened is that the new manager of the LLC go gets a loan, of course they didn't get title insurance, lender's title insurance, because of the fact that the lender can now look up on the Secretary of State's database and see that that person is the valid member. So they took out a loan, it was a multi-million dollar loan I think the property was worth five and they took out a loan of about two and they got the, they got the money but they didn't even make the first payment. So now it goes into default and then I believe it's a secondary part of it, they actually transferred the property from one LLC to another. And the original people again didn't know anything about this until the notice of default went in and then they started sending out letters. And so this is an example of how risky it can be with LLC's. Whether it's Nevada or whether it's any other state, California, just so you need to know that LLC's are have risk attached to them because of this visibility factor. And so anyhow I just wanted to kind of share that with you, and this is the reason that we use a trust for holding title to real estate so that you can get that anonymity and privacy. Go get one, use the, use the trust for holding title to real estate it's much much safer it's much more anonymous and you don't have that connection between the Secretary of State and the recorders office. Anyhow if you'd like our help we're here to help, you know we're here to help you, you know, take a, take a look at our web site trustarte.com our trustartesolutions.com, or click on the link below and you're welcome to share this video with anybody do you think like, you know, might enjoy it. My name is James. Again thank you very much. 