 Hello! Thanks so much for taking a moment to hear a message from my heart. One of the many things that I just love about Norwex is that we are all unique. We are all our own identity. But we also share a very common bond. We're united in a purpose and a mission that we are so proud of. We are ready to rise up together to make a difference. I am so proud of the identity that we together have created as a company, that you have created as Norwex consultants. Norwex is known for great products, but you know what? We are also known for great people. We are defined by our core values and what's inside of our hearts. Our identity as a company is priceless, isn't it. And your personal identity is priceless, too. You know, I love what John Maxwell said. He provides some perspective on identity in one of his daily team videos called Minute with Maxwell. He says that identity isn't in what you do it's not in who you know, it's who you are. Just like Norwex has defined us as an identity as a company, we each need to settle the question: Who am I? What are my values? What makes me the person I am? When you discover yourself, everything else falls into place. The greatest discovery is not out there, the greatest discovery is here. When you connect with your identity, who you are, that's when you'll discover your purpose. You'll know what you want to do, where you want to go, and who you want to know. After all, does what you do define who you are or rather, does who you are define what you do? Your chosen life's work and purpose comes from understanding your own identity first. So, just think about it... You meet people who define themselves by their job. But at Norwex, we want you to discover who you are and then build your dreams from there! This is not just a job or a career. I hope it's a calling! So, I'm here to say don't let the words of other people define who you are. Don't let someone else control your mindset. Your identity is priceless. Find it and own it. And as you continue to discover who you are, your purpose will take shape. Who you are will define what you do and the difference that you can make in the lives of your family and so many others. Your heart will lead you to accomplish so much. It already has. So, from my heart, I want to say, Let your purpose lead you to rise up and make an impact. 