 Hello Welcome Back, This  is your friend MJ Navigator  Do You Want to apply SID Card? What is SID card? Its a Seafarer Identity Document Its like a ATM size Card with Your Biometric inside it. which will be delivered to your Home Address by POST after attending Appointment. There is a Procedure on How to apply SID Online. How to make Payment Online. and how to take Appointment in MMD? i will guide you fully on my Computer Screen and those who are New to this Channel Please SUBSCRIBE and ring a BELL icon so you will get notification on my New Video first. i keep on making this kind of Videos and Seafarer related Videos. so you will be get notified. so Please Subscribe. Lets get it STARTED intro music Open Google and Search for Dg shipping Bsid Click on the first link which is official website of SID Type your INDOS Number and in Password type INDOS1 Same Login details as dg shipping profile login fill the captcha and LOGIN after Login in it will open interface like this Procedures are mentioned here on how to apply in General Section its mentioned that you keep your Passport and CDC ready while filling Form. so that you can verify your Details now Click on apply SID now Verify your Details of your INDOS and CDC Date of Issue and issuing Authority if it is blank no problem after verifying all this Click on Continue this are all PERSONAL details which is being fetched from your INDOS profile like Name, sex, age etc. make sure its correct. if there is something wrong details shown here like email and mobile number, you can change by clicking here. if you have verified everything is correct than you can click on Continue. so next is Dispatched Address so Type ur address details to which your SID card will be send by Post fill the details and click on continue Have you ever been applied SID before? you are applying for first time so tick NO. are you under debarred for applying? debarred meaning is Prevented or banned so here Click on NO on bith CDC and SID do you have PASSPORT and CDC ? so Clik on YES click on continue this is Declaration which u can read it. its written over here that all the details are true and all Check the box of i agree and click on SUBMIT here they are informing to verify the Details again before Submitting so check and submit this is the confirmation of your Application which you need to PRINT you can take this printout afterwards also so after completing this procedure,its completed till STEP 6 Now STEP 7 is to Make Payment Click on make payment Note: read it Click on Fresh Appointment and make payment by debit card or internet banking and click on SUBMIT so after completing payment process message will pop up regarding success of payment and same will be forwarded to email now the next process is SCHEDULE Appointment click on Fresh Appointment you can choose appointment centre whichever is nearest or u can reach their for appointment after choosing your centre Available Date will be shown select your desired Date and click Sumbit down below take a print of ur acknowledgement u can take out print afterward also now everything is Done. all u have to do is go to the appoitment centre on you selected Date which is mentioned in STEP15 which document u need to take to the appointment centre? Printout of Report, Printout of Acknoledgement, Passport and CDC this are the 4 thing u need to carry during your appointment and finally your SID card will be issued and will be delivered by Post in 15 to 30 days Thanks for watching and dont forget to SUBSCRIBE HIT like button also 