 Kinda digging my highlight today though OOH boy yes! Hello everybody, Welcome back to DissociaDID. We are a channel that is dedicated to educating people about Dissociative Identity Disorder and diminishing the stigma that surrounds it. Today I wanted to talk to you about positive triggers. I'm going to tell you a little bit about what positive triggers are, why you should never positively trigger someone, and also maybe show you what it looks like *intro music* Okay, so what is a trigger?  If you don't know what a trigger is, first and foremost I would recommend you go and have a look at our video that we did on PTSD, The science of PTSD and dissociation, Which is a very educational, very scientific based video, And right at the beginning it tells you all about what triggers are A trigger is something that will cause a flashback to happen. A negative trigger is something that will usually encourage a flashback or cause a flashback And will be very very distressing, very upsetting, very unpleasant for the individual who's been triggered There's no such thing as a silly trigger triggers can be anything. It's whatever your brain has associated with a traumatic experience So, okay. What's a positive trigger? A positive trigger at least when it comes to DID, Dissociative Identity Disorder Is something that can encourage an alter to front So it triggers them out but not for a negative reason Some examples of positive triggers could be things like If you're familiar with our channel Kyle has food as a positive trigger if I'm eating or way around food It's very very likely that Kyle will come out Positive triggers don't always work It's not a fool safe way to encourage an alter to front and it is just an encouragement usually Sometimes it can be a triggered switch So it's really really quick but it really depends on the system, the situation and the particular trigger So other common positive triggers are things like songs, or maybe for example If you have Littles which are young alters, child alters Often when a system goes past a very very cute stuffed toy or something very bright, something very kid based It's a positive trigger encourages a child alter to front for a positive reason because they really really like it It's caught their eye Triggered flipped a switch in that part of the brain which encourages this personality This part of the consciousness to come to front Which means they are controlling the body. Now first off. I bet a few people are thinking. Oh great So if I'm with a system and I want to talk to my favorite person for example Or I don't feel like talking to the person who's fronting right now And I want to talk to someone else. I can just positively trigger them out. No, please please please Do not do this, even though they're called positive triggers It is horrible to be positively triggered Because you have no control over the situation If somebody deliberately positively triggers an alter out, huge betrayal of trust. It's very very unpleasant You're putting yourself, your vulnerability in the hands of this person, Who knows about your positive or negative triggers Not only is it extremely hurtful If somebody is showing you that they don't respect or admire you as much as someone else in your system. It's a whole other thing to be... Forced to enter a different state of being. That person is essentially robbing you of your memory Robbing you of your ability to control your body and robbing you of knowing what's happening Because when a switch happens is almost always complete amnesia So whatever another alter has done while they're fronting The other alters won't remember unless they've been co-conscious or there is very good communication So if somebody purposefully triggers you it feels violating. It feels very very violating So please, please please do not use positive triggers to try and force somebody to front No matter how good your intentions are be aware of positive triggers. Be careful and never ever do it on purpose, okay? The reason I'm showing you these things and talking to you about these things And the reason that we're so vulnerable and open and honest on this channel about what the DID is like for us And for a lot of other people is Because we want to erase a stigma that surrounds It so that we're not superheroes. We're not monsters. We're not dangerous We're just people whose brains have developed to handle a very very traumatic early experience Repeated traumatic early experiences in a way that will keep us safe and alive and healthy But that also means that there are a lot of things that make normal life What would be normal and easy and something you wouldn't think about for you? Especially if you're not neurodivergent can be very frightening and dangerous for us So things like going shopping on your own or getting on a bus on your own. What if you passed a toy store? You could switch out to a Little, positive trigger You won't know where you are, where you've been. A Little may buy things with your money things like that And obviously this can happen with any alter at any time It can be quite frightening and it's not always something that's going to be in your control So for example if we know where our toy store is or I've got a glimpse of a toy store I will be very careful to avoid looking at it as much as possible if I can help it Unless I'm with someone I know I trust or I know that I can stay co conscious with that little Or there is a protector very very close Sometimes positive triggers can be helpful in dire situations for example If you really really need a protector to front and you just can't get hold of them Or they're really far back in the headspace And you just can't reach them, then sometimes listening to a certain song. That's a positive trigger for them Maybe their favorite song can help bring them closer to the front So if you need help with something or you need to ask them something that can be very useful But again, this doesn't always work. So on our Spotify we have playlists for each of our alters These are just playlists that we like to listen to when we're out So if you're out I'm like, well, I want to listen to my music now boom There's my playlist with all my stuff on it and we've got Those for lots of people, they're public you can listen to them If you want to I will leave the the links to to my Spotify down below where you can see all of our playlists some Some specific songs will be your positive triggers. So for example if I listened to a song right now And I probably won't be able to play it or I'll get demonetized Demonetized videos get promoted and suggested less often than ones that aren't monetized And we're doing this to spread awareness So I like to avoid being demonetized if I can. Also it helps us pay our rent. So that's great, too I'll see what I can do. I have spoken to a few of us about this Everybody knows that this is gonna happen today and the people who are around near the front. I can feel Sally Kyle Nadia Sally Nile and cardia. What?! Sally Nile and cardia? Sally Kyle and Nadia good lord It did ask on instagram if anyone had any preferences for who they would like to see Experiencing a positive trigger and being brought to front. I don't know if this is gonna work. Doesn't always work but like I said I'm gonna go for the people who said that it's okay Who've agreed that this is alright, who aren't gonna be shocked by it We're in our home or in a safe space Jake who is a fragment has very specific songs that are really strong positive triggers way stronger than any Songs for anyone else other than Phil it was the strongest positive trigger in our system belongs to Jake and a lot of people actually Wanted to see Jake or Kyle and the other one was Omega. A lot of people wanted to see Omega I'm not going to try and positive trigger her to the front. She's distressed up the time she's very distressed She's more comfortable in the inner world. So I'm not going to do that to her. I haven't even asked her I don't I don't want to to force her out on camera. Especially not after what happened last time She was on camera. So as you can see, these are a Spotify playlist Mm. Now who's closest? I've already got a headache so I know people are really close Kyle is definitely the closest but he's not super fond of this very heavy Very feminine eye makeup with like glitter and stuff But I'm sure he'll get over it. He did agree to do this. Okay? so let's let's go for Kyle shall we one specific positive trigger for Kyle is the song Pompeii by Bastille most songs by Bastille actually are positive triggers for him So I'm gonna search specifically for that song Pompeii and what I'm gonna do I'm just gonna listen to it and try and relax see if he fronts, and if he doesn't front, sorry I'm try somebody else here. He doesn't front Alright That was quick 35 seconds. That's it. 35 seconds other thing. You can see that can yeah, we camera come on Come on, mate. Come on, mate. Come on. What? Oh, well, right, then you'll just have to take my word for it 35 seconds Hi. Yeah, my name is Kyle. I'm the primary protector of the dissociated system That's what if positive trigger looks like a lot of people who've like seen our channel light I've seen a lot of comments from people saying like By me I just completely lost my train of thought I think I still a bit dissociated so after you you front if you've been If you switched a lot at the time it kind of takes your brain like a minute to catch up But I've got a really bad headache right now I can feel it coming on and it started off quite strong as it is Anyway, it just feels very much like your heads being kind of stuffed full of cotton wool. It's not nice at all So it's really fucking hot in here. You turned the temperature up But no we were talking about positive triggers weren't we positive she goes what was I gonna say? I was gonna say something about people commenting in What was it? fucking hell I'm well. Sorry. I've completely lost my train of thought last Can you rotate in comments comments YouTube comments? What was I gonna say YouTube comments. Come on brain. I Can't sorry. I can't fucking remember. I can't remember all anyway. Yes The only reason that we were able to do this, we all agreed beforehand like Chloe had my permission to do this I was like, yeah, obviously I'll come say hi to my babes Hi babes, and you know like give you a chat and stuff like that I was not cocon but I was closest to the front like I've been around the front all day because I knew that Chloe was gonna film today and I do like Being close to the front when she does that just in case something happens I can keep an eye on her from like the background so ya know a lot of positive triggers for us our songs and lion particular items like a lot of people a lot of altars will have particular items that are like there's things like For some people like for me, it's my hat. This ain't my hat is Chloe's Chloe's hat I mean technically it's my as well it was sent to us by nan from the pinata system specifically for me and Chloe and for everyone else, but with me and Chloe in mind, but to be honest Chloe's She's going this is a hat like not in a cruel way She's like, it's her favorite hat, but like my hat which if you've seen me before on the channel I've got to meet the elders video and everything like that If you wanna know more about me, like who I am and you know Why why there's a guy living in Chloe's body if you want I have a particular hat, which is a very strong figure for me that hat is around or you know Like within is in eyesight more than like a few seconds It's a very strong positive Trigger for me because it's almost like being pulled forward like coming up out of water or something like that It's like or having a mist clear like if you were in a dream and you were just waking up That's kind of how it feels to be pulled forward to the front sometimes it eats like we've described being pushed to front and and being pushed out front as being literally like pushed or or Kicked like pushed back into in a world literally feels like being thrown Backwards like you get a sense of like dizzy nurse. Chloe always says, she feels like tribal sick I don't feel travel sick, but I do feel sick Oh my a little bit nauseous very big headache like it's not nice like switching ain't fun and that's another reason why she never positively trigger someone I That is not something you should be doing. Anyway, that is someone's body that you're working with It's kind of like if somebody you knew had a bad leg or like a weak knee or something was standing Nearby you and you wanted to look over their head but they were too tall to like see something instead of like asking or saying AG you gonna bend down anytime soon or like Could you bend down so I can see or can I will pass you? It's like saying oh, well, I know how I can get to do that kicking them in the back of the knee that they know is weak and Like I'm watching them fall to the floor and then get back up again Like you don't know you can do that preying on. I mean, it's not a weakness like it's a it's A mechanism in our brain that the works to keep us safe But if you're preying on something that you know is going to affect someone without their permission It's like it's a complete change in the brain like in your consciousness It'd be like giving these it's an alteration of the mind It's like giving someone a drug It's like drugging someone or you know slipping someone alcohol or slipping something in someone's drink like you don't like alter, someone's stay at mind without their permission that is their but in that is you know, their right so like don't don't around with that and I know a lot of people especially like partners of people who had DID and stuff like that do it a lot and it is abusive like that's not Alright, don't do that, especially if they said like don't I don't want you to do that Like you might think for example if you trigger a little out you might think oh, yeah But when she's out she's so happy and fun So it's alright, but not with a person that you was there before you trick it out this other person ain't gonna be happy, you know like you just Don't do it, right. It's Subject close to my heart I guess so please don't positively trigger people on purpose if you have agreement from the system and like you really really really need to protect the front like you're in danger or you need an adult or something like that to be front in so you could sign something important with the person who's front in You can try and use some positive triggers to encourage that person to come to the front or something like that But only with permission and only if you discussed it beforehand discussing with you your partner friends family member anyone you may Colleague whatever who has the idea Eli. Is there anything that is difficult for you that you would like me to avoid? Is there anything that's particularly triggering that you would like me to know about? So that I can make sure not to trigger you in the future by accident because I want you to feel comfortable I want you to feel safe and I never want to force you to either have a flashback or to accidentally trigger out somebody Who doesn't want to be front in is there anything I can do to help you? Is there anything you want to share with me? Because again that is not information that you're entitled to but a lot of systems would probably appreciate you asking so maybe think about that Just be aware that it's really frightening to not have control over yourself To lose memories and stuff like that is fucking scary to come back and be in a different place like for example If you've been blackout drunk or something like that and you like wake up somewhere else Or you've got memories missing and all of a sudden you're somewhere else. It's like that All the time and its really fucking frightening sometimes especially if you don't know what's happened You don't know if someone's hurt you. You don't know if you're safe. You might not know where you are You know, you don't know how people's opinions of you've changed it. Yeah Like Chloe always says this positive outcomes for people with DID you can live so successfully and so happily We've dissociative identity disorder if you get the treatment you need and if you work on your healing it is so so worth it But DID is a horrible disorder. It stems from childhood trauma it is Intensely traumatic for as long as you have it pretty much it's frightening It's deadly frightening and it is a fuck ton of responsibility a fuck ton of responsibility So when we see people saying like oh, I wish I had DID or oh, man I wish I had let you know like a whole family and friends in my head ain't really like that Sometimes it is for some people it's like that but you know You're stuck with people. You can't ever get away from people were very different inside like everybody fired Everybody has disagreements. Sometimes just like you would on the outside some people have in trajector abusers You're literally living with somebody abused you inside your head 24/7 It's frightening DID; it 'aint a game. I Something to look up to you know, it ain't something to desire this is not a desirable disorder and I know that to a lot of people it may seem fantastical because a lot of the the Presentation that's given of DID is in movies and stuff like that and we don't really have any education about it in in the real world So people think oh, yeah. No. Well that's only in movies that don't really exist. That's just in books It's just a stereotype, you know, so yeah If you want to know more about DID and you want to help people learn really what the DID is like how it works and how to live a healthy and successful life with it how to heal and yeah, like all the psychology and brain stuff then please consider liking and subscribing and please consider sharing our videos and stuff like That because uh, Chloe's really she's really passionate about this. She's really fuckin passionate about it. And to be honest I am too now I was a bit sort of willy-nilly with it at the start but I dunno man You've given us a platform like people are listening to us Like people look up to us and stuff and that's a lot of responsibility to have and you know We want to make the most of the opportunity that we've got and we don't wanna let you down We want to make the difference in the world we want to make a change we want to do something right we want to make things better and I feel like with the voice that you guys have allowed us to share It would be irresponsible not to use that to do something positive So for everybody who has likes and subscribes everybody who's watched us over the years Thank you for doing this for us and I hope that you'll let us do something for you So I hope everybody out there is staying safe is having a good day Hydrating because it's hot as balls outside right now Yeah, okay. So we'll see you all in the next video lads lads ladies and non-binary daisies Whatever. Anyone is watching this tar. Have a nice day. See you later It Chloe says in their videos. She's right Lots of love everybody. Bye. Oh, yeah. Everybody's always like oh people with DID, you know? It's really resettle when you switch and stuff like that I guarantee you if we didn't want you to know that we'd switched. You wouldn't know. Let me do Chloe's outro for you. Hold on Lots of love everybody. Bye That's Chloe's outro isn't it, we've had a lot of time practicing Because my voice is so low. It makes the throat hurt right, I'm gonna go dissociate and my head for a bit because I feel really really like, oh I hate this feeling I hope you enjoyed the video guys. I'll see you in the next video. Does love everybody. Bye 