 I Am. Two of the most powerful words in the English language that can either be limiting beliefs that hold you back, or they can be empowering identity driving statements. So we're going to go with option number two in this video, and I'm going to share with you exactly how to create identity-based habits using this idea of the I Am statement. So make sure to watch all the way to the end of the video because I'm going to share with you a practice that I use with my one-on-one coaching clients that can help fast track this process and actually create identity-based habits that are sustainable and last for the long term. So make sure to watch all the way to the end. And if you are new to this channel, welcome. My name is Kristin Constable, and I'm a leadership and business coach to values-driven entrepreneurs who want to lead wildly successful values-driven businesses, and live rich and fulfilling values-driven lives. And every single week I create a new video for this channel exclusively, and it's to help you do exactly that. So if you haven't already subscribed, make sure to do so and click the little bell so every week you get notified as soon as a new video comes out. Okay, let's get started. So let me ask you, what would be possible if you had a tool in your toolkit that allowed you to remove any unwanted behavior and actually create any wanted behavior, whether that be in your self-leadership, with your team, in your business? What would be possible? Would you be able to go after and really actualize that big hairy audacious goal of yours, or manifest that vision for your business and your life? Or maybe it would be that you would have such a solid foundation that you would be unshakable. Your habits to way of being would just be so solid that nothing could throw you off course. So from my experience, the answer to those three questions is yes, it is very possible, and it's possible with the help of one very powerful tool. Well, it's actually kind of two tools put together to create the supercharged tool, which is identity-based habits. So identity-based habits takes the best from the science of habit formation and pairs that with one of the most powerful pieces of our psychology, which is our identity, the way we see ourselves in the world. When we pair those two things together, we get these supercharged habits that really allow us to live into the highest version of ourselves, or the created version of our identities. Because the thing with our identities is that we create them moment to moment, day to day. They are not static. When we understand this, we can use that to our advantage to create identity-based habits that serve us. Super powerful stuff. Just recently, I was working with one of my clients and we were doing this work and identified that she actually had some limiting I Am beliefs. So some of the beliefs that she had around her identity were things like I'm just like a small business. I'm a small, solopreneur operation. This is how she saw herself as an entrepreneur. So what we worked on and what we created with her is, well, actually what is the identity that you want? What do you actually want to create for your life? And what she got connected to was this identity that I am an expert marketer. So what shifted in that for her when it came to her habits were her old habits reflected that of a small business owner, not really a professional, not really someone who is out to have a huge impact on the world. So that would mean she'd show up to work at home in her pajamas. It would mean that she didn't invest in her business. So setting herself up with the tools and the systems that actually allowed her to show up as an expert. When she shifted her I Am statement to I am an expert marketer, all of her habits shifted. She showed up for work dressed as an expert marketer, as a professional. She started investing in her business, looking at what would a professional marketer, an expert marketer, need to be able to do her job well? All of a sudden, the identity that she created impacted her habits and how she showed up in her business and her life. It was a huge game changer, and the cool thing about this work is once you create that identity, it's very hard to go back on. That is who you are and how you show up in the world. So I'm going to walk you through the steps that's going to take you to that place yourself, and as I said at the beginning, make sure you watch all the way to the end because I'm going to give you one key practice that's really going to help land this for you and fast track the identity based statements to be ones that really, really are powerful. So make sure to watch until the end. So your first step is to identify those disempowering and empowering I Am statements. So let's distinguish what those two are. So empowering I Am statements are I Am statements that actually are creative, that add to your identity, and move you in the direction of your bigger picture vision and goals. So they are great. They are things like I am creative. I am loving. I am great with people. They are parts of your identity that actually support you and move you towards your goals. Disempowering I Am statements, on the other hand, are those limiting belief. So they are things that hold you back, that get in the way of you actually moving towards your bigger picture vision and goals. So they can look something like I'm not a morning person, I'm not great in front of the camera, I'm not creative. So anything that would stop you from getting to you vision and goals are holding you back. Those are disempowering I Am statements, and they can be changed. We are able to create our reality and create our identities moment to moment to moment. So we want to identify what I Am statements are holding us back. So how do you do that? Well, that is the power of the I Am statement. Our language is a clue to what our beliefs are. So you want to start taking a moment to bring some awareness to those I Am statements, to our language. Getting outside of ourselves, looking back on ourselves, to notice what kind of words we're using. If you have trouble with that, try to enroll someone that you trust in this process. So tell them what you are up to, and ask them to help you pick up on the types of I Am things that you say. Sometimes it's hard to see in ourselves, so you ask for help. That can be a great place to start. Before moving on to the next step, you're going to want to make sure that you have some clarity, it doesn't need to be perfect, but you need to have some clarity around what that bigger picture vision really is. So what is it that you're working towards? What is the bigger picture, highest version of yourself? So if you don't have clarity that yet, not to worry. Head on over to the How To Create A Powerful Vision micro-course on this channel. It's about an eight minute video that will help you with that piece, and then you can move on to the next steps. Now is the fun part, in my opinion. So you've got your powerful I Am statement, your identity that you are looking to create. Your clear on your bigger picture vision. Now you get to create those identity-based habits. So how do you do this? What is an identity-based habit? And identity-based habit is something that leverages that I Am statement, and that I Am statement needs to be both true to you, and it needs to move you in the direction of your vision and goals. And once you have that I Am statement as true to you and it's going to move you in the direction of your vision and goals, you can start to create the habit out of it. And so let me just share with you an empowering I Am statement that I've been working with with years, to use it as a bit of an example to work us through this process. So a few years ago what I created for myself, one thing that I wanted to really own and ingrain in my identity was that I am a world class coach. So that statement is true to me, and what I was able to create from that is a tone of different habits, day to day, moment to moment, that allow me to actually live into that identity. So I'll give you an example of one habit that I created. Before we go there, I want to identify three really important pieces to an effective habit. And that is the cue, the routine, and the reward. You want to make sure that any habit you ingrain has these three components to it. That's what makes an effective habit. So for me, one of the habits that I wanted to create around this identity of being a world class coach was how I prepared for my coaching calls. So in the past, before this identity, I would find myself rushing onto the calls. From call to call, booking myself back to back, and not feeling really set up or grounded to be in that place to serve fully, and as a world class coach. So what I wanted to do was set up a routine, a habit for myself, to ground myself and get myself fully into the zone before these calls. So the cue for this habit is in my calendar now, I give myself at least 15 minutes before my next call. So a little alarm goes off, the notification, that's my cue to begin my routine. My routine looks something like a three to five minute meditation, and a mantra that will support me in serving on the highest level. So that changes from time to time, whatever I'm inspired by. But it just reminds me that I'm there to be on the call and service with my clients. And then I use a little bit of aroma therapy, my essential oils, to get me in the mental state to be there. So some days I might need an essential oil that will calm me, other days I'll need one that energizes me. But that is my little ritual to get me in on the call in the best way possible, and to actually show up as a world class coach. And the reward for me is actually pretty easy because the way that I feel when I get on to those calls, and how grounded I feel, is a reward in itself. So I actually don't find that I need much of a reward because how I actually feel at the end of that routine is reward enough. So I hope you can see from that example that our identity can be used and leveraged to create habits small and large that will actually allow us to live into the highest versions of ourselves, and actualize those bigger picture goals and dreams and visions, and it will allow you to actually do the work that you're here to do. So now it's your turn. You'll get to take on those two steps of, first, identifying your empowering I Am statements and your disempowering I Am statements, and then creating those identity-based habits based on an empowering I Am statement that allows you to live into an identity that would be powerful for you and actually help you actualize your goals. So before you rush off and go into that practice, I want to share with you that tool that I've been talking about. And the tool is a values exploration exercise. So what I've found is that to root those identity pieces, those I Am statements in our values, is way more effective than just pulling them out of thin air. So the values discovery exercise that you can find in the notes below, you can download it using the note in the link below, will help you identify five core values and will help you see what's actually underneath those values in terms of what is most important to you. Once you can see those, then you have some clues into the identity pieces of who you want to be and how you want to show up in the world, and you can start to create really, really powerful I Am statements, which then will lead to really powerful identity-based habits. So make sure to go to that link in the notes and download your own values discovery exercise and start there and then dive into the work that we were just talking about. All right. So that's it for today. But before running off, just take one second to comment below in the comments below this video with one I Am statement that you are interested in diving into and exploring a little more. Just making that one action, commenting below, is going to get you into action, and it's going to start your journey. So go ahead right now, comment below. And don't forget, if you haven't subscribed already, make sure to subscribe to the channel, hit the little bell, because there's going to be a new video that comes out next week to help you lead that wildly successful values-driven business and lead that rich and fulfilling values-driven life. So hope to see you back here next week, and have a good one. Bye. 