   (ETHEREAL MUSIC PLAYS)   It was important that to conclude this part of the story, we had to go off the base. (GIGGLING) Oh. I think it's a lot of self-discovery... -I was about to say that, yeah. -...for both Caitlin and Fraser. We wanted to give Fraser and Caitlin the possibility of real freedom. Like, for one night, we're gonna be exactly who we want to be. Ha-ha! We don't exist! We don't exist, we don't exist, we don't exist! Wait, stop. Concert, come on! PAOLO GIORDANO:  It's almost like a dream. It's an escape, but it's also-- It's almost like a dream. And I think that when you tell stories about that particular age, you have to remember that you need to dream and leave space for dreams and visions and just this... urgency to escape everything sometimes. (SPEAKING IN ITALIAN) I think that Caitlin learns the very harsh lesson that the identity is constantly shifting. I think she understands in that moment, with great sorrow, that she probably doesn't want to be what she thought she wanted to be. But in this sense of defeat that she feels, she also finds something revelatory, something painfully beautiful. And that's what is the trigger of her confusion, rage, sadness in the bathroom. In practice, she's understanding the real need of utopia for the self. To be recognized in the gaze of the other. Both Caitlin and Fraser, and their friends, they belong to a generation who... often just sails through this possible definitions and doesn't really stop their thinking what the right definition is. (SPEAKING IN ITALIAN) And finally, Fraser surrenders to Italy. Only to find that something that elevates him in the thing that-- in the person that has been most close to him for so long is Caitlin. She's been going through so much throughout the entire season, and finally coming-- it's all finally coming to a head, where's she's finally, like, realizing, like, who she wants to be, and what she wants to be, and where she stands with Fraser. They belong in their own worlds. And Fraser has found the perfect person who belongs in his world as well, and that's Caitlin. And she is in her own world, like, lost in life, and Fraser comes and they're each other's savior, I think. JORDAN KRISTINE SEAMÓN:  It's really pretty to see  how they go from such a wholesome, wholesome friendship to a caring, loving relationship and a big kiss. So, I hope the audiences feel love. I hope they feel confusion. I hope they feel restlessness. And eventually, I hope they understand all of the people that we describe. And I hope so that, as I said before, we leave We Are Who We Are  season one with the desire of loving and being loved.   (MUSIC CONCLUDES)   