 Let's talk about finding your voice and why it's so important to know yourself. I like to use the term "area of genius". I first heard it from my business partner, Dr. Tracy Timberlake. It's a fun way to take ownership of that skill that you've had, that special sauce. That thing that you know how to do better than the next 1000 people. We all have it. But women especially are taught that it's impolite to celebrate it. Even fewer know how to monetize it. A core part of my business is public speaking. My core topic is flourishing in life and in career by learning from failure, understanding how intersectionality affects perspective, managing rejection and building your resilience. I work with savvy professionals who expect results, value integrity and want to make a positive impact on the world. Stereotypes do not define you, and neither does your job. Self identity or how you see yourself. Changes over time based on your environment and experiences. I've been starting these videos, introducing myself as a author and an entrepreneur. But I'm also an AfroLatina, a mother and a wife. We are all many things, but above all, we're human first. We all have basic desires, fears, joyful moments. Above all, we all operate on a spectrum and we change. My clients are business savvy high achievers who are usually well educated or have advanced experience in their industry. They know success and they realize that it takes time or money. They're contacting me and my team at Florida Media because they have a standard to live up to. The prospect of failing isn't what they want. They understand the concept of having a team. But there are things in digital marketing or social media marketing that they just don't know. That shift of understanding can be a conflict for some people. There are wonderful, talented people who won't pursue anything that they're not good at. There are people who would rather let their business fail. Who would let a dream drift off into the atmosphere instead of hiring someone to simply teach them how to do it. Future Vivian here. Just want to remind you that there are some free goodies down in the description box. We have our social media guide, which is one of the most popular downloads from Flourish Media Company. And you can also download our baby registry checklist for all the busy moms in your life or for you yourself, save yourself some time. All right. Get back to the video. Indulge me. In the past, I've had challenges with language, but I'm also a published author. I'm a first generation English speaker. My mother is from Panama and speak Spanish. My father's from Nigeria, speaks many local languages, including French. I was born in Germany. My nanny spoke German. You would think that being around all these languages would give me a heads up in life and at least a heads up with languages. But I had a speech delay and the doctors at the time told my parents that it would be better if everyone around me simply spoke one language. Also, in the eighties, American immigrants wanted to assimilate, which for a lot of families meant their language was the first to go. For years, I had challenges writing in English because I wrote how I spoke, which was a mismatch of all the different cultures in my household. Even now, if you're on my email list, you will see some grammar or spelling errors from time to time. I'm hyper aware of this, so I often take my time to write things, but it by no means keeps me from communicating. You may be a V.P. at a company or a career soldier. You may have been in middle management so long that you've given up the idea of being a CEO. Maybe you used to be a corporate person, but you made a transition to being a stay at home parent or retired. None of these things keep you from having a flourishing business. You can be any of those things and have an online boutique. Sell your invention or offer a service. You can do both. You can be many things. Sometimes excellence in a traditional career is what's keeping you from growing your business. A typical executive has staff, which means you may not have a grasp on modern technology and techniques. That can be uncomfortable because it shifts you from being a person who's confident, giving orders to someone who's not so confident and needs help. It's uncomfortable, but it doesn't have to be permanent. You can learn a large media. I love watching winners win by learning marketing skills to help their vision become a reality. Part of entrepreneurship is being confident that you will run into things you don't know, but also trusting that you can figure it out. One of Flourish Media's most popular services is our one on one intensive. It's a two part service where we deep dive into client marketing challenges and we solve them. It's 100% custom and very helpful for busy business owners. Before the pandamic, we'd spend a half day or full day with our clients working through these things. But now we operate virtually, which also allows us to lower the price for a limited time. If you're having issues, finding clarity for your product or you'd like help outlining your online course. Or maybe you need to improve your email marketing or get trained on Facebook Ads but you don't have a lot of time to do it, then our intensives are perfect for you. I know who I am and I'm very clear on my personal area of genius. I hope watching this encourages you to find yours and celebrate it because it's special and it could be profitable. We have five weeks this month and here's what you can expect. Week one is all about resilience. Week two is about finding your voice, something I know very well and I had to do in order to publish my interactive journal, Stumbling Through Adulthood. Next week is all about impact. Now that you know what you want to say and you're strong enough to stand up for what you believe. How are you going to reach the most people and make the biggest impact? At last, we round out the month talking about the plan, being able to put all of these things into motion. I learned so much from connecting with you. With the pandemic and being a new mom. I'm starved for human connections. Join me when you can. And share your perspective. If you know some tips and tricks that I should be using, share it. Comment and find me online. I am @VivianOlo and my business is @FlourishMediaCo on all things. Talk to you next time. And remember everything you do as a choice. Choose the path that let you enjoy the journey. Are you still here? Thank you so much for watching and hope this video fills you with positive vibes and you're able to go out and celebrate your genius. Take a look at some other videos you may find interesting. Go ahead. Watch it. Subscribe. Hit the notification bells to when you, (laughs) when I upload a new video. You will be notified. 