 Hello. This is a video by CLA Career Services on your professional identity. What is it and how do you use it? You may also hear professional identity referred to as personal brand. Let's dive in! What is professional identity? As stated in this quote by William Arruda, it is your unique promise of value. It is defined as what differentiates you and what people say about you when you are not in the room. In CLA career services, We define professional identity to be representative of who you are such as the skills, interests, and personality you bring and how you authentically show up in the workplace to stay true to your personal and social identities. Why should you create a professional identity or personal brand? It helps you find positions and opportunities that fit you. It helps your teammates and co-workers know what they can come to you for. It is what you want to be known for in the world of work. Everyone has one but if you manage it, you can utilize it to your benefit. How? We will talk about that in a minute! What is your professional identity? What do people think of when they see your name and face? Professional identity is the outward expression of who you are and who you choose to be. What are you known for? How do you choose to represent yourself in the professional world and how others perceive you? Professional identity should be distinctive, authentic, and consistent. Defining and crafting your professional identity is key to maximizing your career opportunities and aligning them with your values. Continuing on with your professional identity. Do people come to you when... they need a creative idea? They have a complex problem? They need help with a spreadsheet or they need to talk and have a laugh? These are examples that can make up your professional identity whether you know it or not. Being intentional about your professional identity will help you be successful in your career. It's okay if you don't know what your professional identity looks like as it can change over time and your story is still unfolding. Defining your professional identity. What are your strengths, skills, values passions, unique life experiences, personality, and identities? This includes both social and personal identities Now, let's brainstorm! Brainstorm the elements on the previous slide using these questions. What do you value? What are your skills? You may include some CLA core competencies. What are your strengths? You may want to look at your StrengthsFinder results if you have them. Also, what do other people tell you that you're good at? How would you describe your personality? Consider your Myers-Briggs MBTI type if familiar. What are you passionate about? Tip: Think about what you love to do in your free time. What classes do you most enjoy? What topics do you get excited to talk about? What about unique aspects of your personal and social identity? What unique experiences have you had? What sets you apart from your competitors such as other students applying for the same internship or job? Now, in the professional identity brainstorm take some of your answers from above and write down words associated with each of these elements. Maybe you are empathetic, analytical, and a critical thinker. Maybe you care about people and have a passion for medicine. Maybe you have previously studied abroad and are creative. Then create a professional identity statement using some of these elements. For example, using the words we just brainstormed: I'm a psychology pre-med student who is passionate about helping people and I am motivated to achieve results through analytical and critical thinking. Now for some examples, what do you think of when you think of these people? Goldy Gopher, do you instantly think of the University or of his fun, energetic persona? He's outgoing, athletic, goofy, and fun-loving. Goldy is aware of his professional identity and takes time to manage it so he can show up in distinctive, authentic, and consistent ways for Gopher fans. How about Oprah? You may think of her talk show, her philanthropy, and dedication to education. You may also think of her book lists or magazines and podcasts or her motivational speaking. Now, me, Katy. If you know me or just by looking at the photo, you'll know my professional identity or personal brand. I'm a dog mom, dog-lover and a bit dog obsessed. I've created this as my personal brand and I own it. I am also a student services professional and an alumna of the U. How can you leverage your professional identity? Professional identity can be leveraged in a variety of ways including, but not limited to: cover letters or resumes. For example, you could use your professional identity to create an objective statement on a resume. It may sound something like this: Seeking a public policy internship at a team-focused organization that would utilize my management and political science education and writing and public speaking experience. You may also see professional identity leveraged on other application materials, in personal introductions or elevator pitches, and in interviews. You may use your professional identity to answer the question: Why should we hire you? For example, you could say to answer that question: I am someone who is passionate about public policy. In classes at the University of Minnesota, I was always the student raising questions about how public policy could create change. I also thrive in situations where I can build relationships with others and can contribute as an effective team member. Professional identity may show up in your LinkedIn or online presence, at career events, or in networking Still have questions? Connect with a CLA career counselor at clacareer.appointments.umn.edu. Drop-ins are also available. You can learn more at our website. Check out your CLA Career Readiness Guide. Reference your free guide for more information on this topic, as well as, anything else you may need related to career. You can also check out z.umn.edu/careerguides for some great information on navigating your identity in the workplace CLA Career Services is here for you. Thank you! 