 Hi guys today, we're gonna talk about brains and quadcopters, let's start with brains in late 1950s Hubel and Wiesel conducted their Nobel prize-winning experiments in the visual cortex of the brain and their experiment they had a cat look at a screen The screen had a bar of light on it that they could move around and resize While the cat looked at the screen they recorded electrical activity from the visual cortex of the cat's brain If we were to zoom into their recording site He would see something like this. Here is a neuron and here is an electric recording the electrical activity from that neuron Here is what the cat sees during the experiment recall that the barbed light will move around and change sizes While the bar moves around, pay attention to the sounds that you hear What you will hear is the recorded electrical activity in the neuron and visual cortex fed to a speaker. You can literally listen in on the neurons activity while the cat looks at the screen? Okay besides the fact that it's mind-blowing cool that you can listen in on the activity of individual neurons in the brain, you might have noticed that the neuron only responds to the bar of light in a certain area of the field of view and only responds when the bar is oriented at a certain direction If you didn't notice these facts because I was just so cool to hear the neurons spiking activity Just go back and rewatch the experiment, and keep in mind that there are some neurons in your own brain that are responding similarly to this video as the cat's neuron is to the part of light Let's move on from their experiment two having a look at their experiments data The left column shows the angle of the bar of light and the right column shows the neuron's response to the bar of light over time where time progresses from left to right along the horizontal line in each row. This small bar represents the time in which the stimulus was on and inside the region of the visual field that the neuron was responsive to. Each one of these vertical tick marks represents a neuron spike which was that popping sound you heard during the experiment. For example, in the trial where the bar was horizontal the neuron was quiet as in the trial. Whereas when the bar was just all vertical the neuron spiked seven times during the stimulus presentation Now if we were to divide the number of spikes by the amount of time that the stimulus was present and get a spike rate for each bar orientation, we will get a plot like this which we could fit a curve to. This curve describes the neurons output spike rate as a function of some input stimulus Otherwise known as its tuning curve now the idea of an input-output relationship is pretty general so don't get too attached to this particular neuron and this particular tuning curve You might find tuning curves that look like this or this or this or this if you're into deep learning or tuning curves that are functions of multiple dimensions like this or that even change over time in fact recalled that the cat's neuron responded not only to the bar's orientation But also to the position of the bar in the field of view So our description of the neurons tuning was already simplified down to a single dimension even though we know that the neuron is responsive to multiple aspects of the visual field Now remember that the neuron sitting in the salty bath of your brain We're not shining the bar of light directly on the neuron, so it of course has no idea that it's responding to the bar of light's orientation, which brings us back to the experiments of Hubel and Wiesel What won them the Nobel Prize was more than just finding some tuning curves. Rather they also propose specific neural circuits that showed how signals flowed from cells in the retina to cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus to cells in the primary visual cortex They showed how the tuning of one layer of neurons could give rise to the tuning of the next layer of neurons through a specific set of connectivity So this has been a lot of neuroscience, and I'm leaving out a lot of details, and there's much more neuroscience out there But we won't go there at least not in this video because quadcopter! I said quadcopter in beginning let's do tuning curves on a quadcopter. Here is a quadcopter Inside this copter I have an omnibus f3 flight control board and I have it talking to this Raspberry Pi The PI's job is going to be to simulate neurons that are attuned to the roll angle of the copter. Let's go outside Here's what the quadcopter sees this quadcopter has two neurons attuned to the vehicle's roll angle Here is plotted their tuning curves Neuron zero fires more and responds to counterclockwise roll angles on there on one fires more in response to clockwise roll angles Here will be a plot other neuron spiking activity over time. In the cat video, we only listened to a single neuron. Here, We're going to listen to two neurons simultaneously Pay attention to when neurons spike and don't spike Hopefully you noticed that indeed the neurons were responsive to the roll angle But not to the pitch or yaw angles if you didn't catch any of this, just go back and rewatch the maneuvers These roll neurons would be akin to the neurons in your inner ear Which similarly respond to your head rotation and give rise to your sense of balance? We could of course also set up neurons attuned to the pitch or yaw angles as well. Now, let's go fly the quadcopter In this flight, I hope you agree that the neurons behave just like they did on the ground So where do we go from here? At this point, we've setup neurons on a quadcopter that can act as a first layer of computation. In a future video we can talk about how these spiking neurons can be used in a useful manner if you want to read ahead, you can look up something called the neural engineering framework, otherwise Let me know in the comments if you have any other questions. Thank you for watching! You 