 [NCI Staff speaking] Welcome. Thank you for joining us today for the webinar on Perception and Cognition Research to Inform Cancer Image Interpretation. Before introducing our moderator who will review today's program, I would like to provide a few tips for using WebEx conferencing software that you can get the most out of your experience. On the right-hand side of the screen you will see a panel with a couple different options. Should you experience technical difficulties such as not being able to hear, view the WebEx screen or PowerPoint, then you may contact us at any time using the chat panel and selecting host from the drop-down menu. If you need to view live captioning, please refer to the Media Viewer Panel. To submit questions please type into the Q&A panel, type your question into the box, and select “host” from the drop-down menu to submit. We anticipate participants will have many questions. We will address them in the order of receipt, but we will give priority to new topics not raised by previous questions. I additionally wanted to make note that today's webinar is being recorded and will be posted online at a later date. With that, I will pass the presentation over to our moderator, Paige Green. [Paige Green speaking] Good afternoon. Welcome to today's webinar. I am Paige Green, and I serve as Chief of the Basic Biobehavioral and Psychological Sciences Branch. It is my pleasure to introduce our principle speaker today, Dr. Todd Horowitz. Todd is a program director and cognitive scientist in the Basic Biobehavioral and Psychological Sciences Branch at the National Cancer Institute. He is joined also today by two technical experts, Dr. Lalitha Shankar who serves as Chief of the Clinical Trials Branch in the Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis at NCI, and Dr. Vinay Pai, Director the Division of Health Informatics Technologies at the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering, and they will be available to address specific questions towards the end of the seminar. Our agenda today is as follows. We will go through a brief background of our division and the National Cancer Institute. Todd will walk us through the funding opportunity announcement details, resources, and we’ll open the floor up for questions. Please note that questions about specific aims or grant application details will not be addressed today. In terms of background, this is our division organizational structure. We are within the Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences. Our Behavioral Research Program actually initiates, supports, and evaluates a comprehensive program of research ranging from basic biobehavioral and psychological science to the development, testing and dissemination of interventions in cancer control. Areas such as tobacco use, diet, energy balance and sun protection. Our division is part of NCI, and it consists of different divisions. Our division, in particular, focuses on cancer control and population sciences, which is a very broad area of science to cover, and that leads us to having the different programs within our division. But the Behavioral Research Program actually focuses a great deal on the behavioral risk factors for cancer. Tobacco, as you know, is the number one risk factor for cancer, but we also support a lot of work in the area of obesity, energy balance, diet, physical activity and other behaviors. Sun exposure is another important risk factor that we are increasingly supporting, and we are also interested in other areas such as alcohol and sleep, and other risk factors for cancer. Our goal is to try and get as much research going in these areas, but also to make sure that we are bringing a diverse group of investigators together as possible to enrich our portfolio, and that we are getting different perspectives from different disciplinary backgrounds. This is a slide to just walk us through how we actually fund grants. Although most of our portfolio consists of investigator-initiated or unsolicited grants, our program also supports grant applications in specific areas of interest, and we largely solicit those applications through either Requests for Applications or RFAs, Program Announcements, or Program Announcements with special receipts, referral, and review considerations. In terms of grant mechanisms that we potentially use, we use specifically for this particular funding opportunity announcement the R01 and R21 grant mechanisms. And you see on this slide the differences between the two. The NIH Research Program Grant R01 mechanism supports a discrete, specified and circumscribed research project. It is the most commonly used grant program. There's no specific dollar limit. We do ask that you submit an ARA, which seeks permission for submitting an application that is greater than $500K in direct costs of any given year, and the R01s that we typically support range in years from 3 to 5 years of funding. The R21, however, is a bit more circumscribed. It supports new, exploratory and developmental research projects. It’s sometimes used for pilot and feasibility studies. Preliminary studies are discouraged for the R21, and it has a budget limit of approximately $275K over a two-year project period, and it offers up to two years of funding. With that I’m going to turn it over to Todd who will walk us through the funding opportunity announcement details. [Todd speaking] Thank you, Paige. The motivation for this proposal, this funding opportunity announcement, is the observation that cancer imaging is a crucial element of detection and diagnosis of cancer in a wide variety of modalities ranging from mammography and colonography to digital microscopy. If you're interpreting a biopsy, for example, PET-CT, and a whole range of molecular imaging techniques that have been coming online more recently. Despite the diversity of these imaging modalities, one thing that they have in common is that the performance of the human observer is critical. The human being has to interpret the image in order to make any contribution to the diagnosis and detection of cancer, and the performance of these human observers has been relatively neglected in terms of research and funding priorities, and this opportunity is an attempt to start making inroads on that. This is a difficult perceptual task. As you can see in this slide, presenting data from a couple of very large NCI funded studies, if we look at mammography, for example, there is a great deal of data, the rate of missed cancers is about 10 percent and the rate of false positives when there is no cancer is about 15 percent. And the numbers are somewhat worse in low-dose lung CT, which is our best modality for detecting lung cancer. These errors, it should be pointed out, some of them may be technical in nature where there is a problem with the image, but for the most part we are talking about perceptual and cognitive errors, and that means an error where the abnormality is visible in the image, but if you know where to look, but the reader happens to miss it. According to a recent Institute of Medicine report, these perceptual cognitive errors make up a substantial proportion of errors in diagnosis, generally across all of medicine. I have a couple examples to illustrate what we mean here. These are taken from a review by Elizabeth Kripinski. These are chest radiographs. The lesion is circled in green on both of these images, and the path of the radiologist’s eye is in red. You can see on the left what we might call a perceptual or search error where the radiologist’s eye just skates right over the lesion and doesn't stop. On the right-hand side you see what you might call a cognitive or decision error where the radiologist clearly looked at the lesion for a period of time and then decided that it wasn’t a problem. What can we do to reduce these kinds of errors? That is the purpose of this PAR, is to solicit research on the perceptual and cognitive mechanisms underlying the performance of cancer image observers. Now cancer image observers is a bit of a mouthful, but it is meant to cast sort of a wide net, so we are not only talking about radiologists here. We are talking about radiologists, pathologists, cytologists, nuclear medicine physicians, potentially dermatologists, really anyone, any professional who interprets a visual image in order to detect or diagnose cancer. Any of those specialties would be relevant. And, in particular, this FOA is trying to promote a synergy of basic research and perception and cognition and applied research on the interpretation of medical images, in particular, with the end aim of improving the accuracy of cancer detection and diagnosis. To extend a little bit on this synergy notion, the fundamental assumption here is that your cancer image observers – your radiologists, pathologists, and so forth – are using the same visual perceptual system as the rest of us for those of us who are not radiologists and so forth. And the insights from basic perception research, understanding in general how the perception and cognition systems work, can be used to help understand the problems faced by cancer image observers. A corollary of this is that we can study a lot of these problems by studying non-expert observers using controlled images in basic perception laboratories. Once we can test a wide variety of hypotheses in these settings and the findings can be taken into the clinic once we've identified the most promising hypotheses, we can test them out with real professional observers on the images that they are experts at. This is a critical step, we think, both in order to ensure that our conclusions generalize to the cancer context, and also in order to persuade professionals to accept our recommendations once we have some, but it is not the entirety of the research project, so that is the idea of this synergy of basic and applied research. To give you a flavor of the kind of research we are looking for, we have come up with a set of examples. These are, of course, not exclusive. These are just illustrations of some of the kinds of research that we are looking for. There has been a lot of research over the past ten years on the effects of low prevalence on cancer image on medical image perception and visual research. Low prevalence is a big problem in cancer screening, for example, but what has been comparatively understudied is the effects of high prevalence, so high prevalence contexts are also very important in cancer. For example, if you are pathologist interpreting a biopsy slide, that biopsy was probably taken from someone who had a high likelihood of having cancer. So in this high prevalence condition the question is, How do we identify what is normal when almost everything we see is abnormal? On a slightly different topic, one of the most well-established findings in film mammography is that it is more difficult to detect tumors in dense breasts than in fatty breasts, and this problem was part of the impetus behind the shift to digital radiology and digital mammography. Some recent research has shown that the problem in digital mammography is now reversed, and it is more difficult to detect tumors in fatty breasts. If we understood how breast density affects the perception of tumors, if we had a theory to understand this perceptual problem, then we could generate recommendations to improve detection of tumors across all different breast densities. Computer-aided detection. We as an institute and as a society have put a lot of resources into developing a highly sophisticated image processing algorithms that can identify parts of a medical image that may reflect an abnormality. This is now widely used in mammography, for example, and these algorithms work perfectly well in laboratory reader studies. However, recent research shows that when you move into the clinic, when you implement this widely, it has not increased the detection of cancer. Again, this is not a physical problem with the algorithm. This is something about how computer-aided detection interacts with the human observer, in this case, the mammographer. And if we understood the cognitive and perceptual effects of computer aided detection, and again, had the theory for how an observer might best use that information, then we could improve the delivery of that information, and those algorithms could prove useful. Finally, on a very different topic, training of cancer image observers is not a systematic process. It is generally ad hoc. You were trained the way your mentor was trained, so the training procedures vary from medical school to medical school and within medical schools, but we know that there is a large field of perceptual learning, and the insights from that field might be applied to the problem of learning how to interpret cancer images in order to generate recommendations for how medical schools might construct systematic procedures for training clinicians and others to interpret cancer images. Again, this is just a sampling of the kind of research that we would like to see. Your idea might not be analogous to one of these, but this is just to get you thinking about how we have been thinking about the problem. I wanted to give a little hint of the kind of research that is not going to be considered responsive, specifically at NCI. The NIBIB has also signed on to this FOA, and they have slightly different considerations. I’m going to get to that a little later, and we have Dr. Pai on the call so he can give specific advice, but from the NCI perspective we’re not really interested in studies proving that your new hardware or software works. We don't want to fund purely descriptive studies in medical image interpretation that are not driven by perceptual hypotheses. We think that those kinds of studies, in general, can be funded elsewhere. Conversely, we are not really interested in funding basic or theoretical perception research that is not really directly linked to the problems of medical or cancer image perception. One can always, of course, make the case that if we understood any area of perception better that would translate into helping us to understand the medical image perception context, but from the NCI perspective we really want something where the link is going to be more direct. When you are writing your proposal, keep in mind that I or someone like me is going to have to justify, no matter what your score is, I'm going to have to justify the funding request up the chain of command, and I am going to have to explain why this is important for cancer. Please keep that in mind. On the contrary, what we are looking for, first of all, we are trying to encourage cross-disciplinary collaborations. We want to see people with expertise in various areas of basic, cognitive, and perceptual research, collaborating with people who really know what the problems are in the clinic, radiologists, pathologists, and so forth. We want to see teams from a wide variety of disciplines – cognitive psychologists, neuroscientists, medical image perception researchers, nuclear medicine physicians, and so forth. Just to reiterate, from the NCI perspective, we are looking for something that is relevant to the cancer context. We are looking to encourage research that will move both basic and applied fields forward, so the ideal project is going to study some problem that will not only help us improve cancer detection and diagnosis, but will also in turn, feed back and help us learn something more about perception. And something I have not mentioned yet, but we are also encouraging people to study international contrasts. There are wide varieties of practice across different countries, and these different practices often lead to different levels of performance, and we are encouraging people to study how these different levels of performance come about. And that may, in many cases, require international collaboration, so we are encouraging international investigators and collaboration and U.S. and international collaborations to apply for grants under this FOA. As I mentioned, NIBIB has a different set of priorities. Their focus is on the development of new technologies and methodologies, so if your research interests are lying more in the area of new technologies, you're going to want to talk to my colleague, Dr. Pai. They are interested in newer visualization systems, the development of advanced machine learning approaches, multidimensional/four-dimensional data analytics, image perception techniques with sparse data, and high-performance computing-based algorithm development. Again, we have Dr. Pai on the call to answer any questions about these issues. A few important considerations to keep in mind when you're putting your proposal together. At the beginning in the introduction, Dr. Green mentioned that we are funding two different kinds of mechanisms, the R21s and R01s. R21s are for innovative, risky explorative research projects, and specifically, these are projects where you don't actually have --, not only do you not have to have preliminary data, but we are really discouraging projects with preliminary data from coming in under the R21 umbrella. If you have preliminary data we want you to try and formulate an R01, but if you have some exciting new plausible idea that you have not tried out yet, you want to aim more for the R21. Whereas the R01 is when you can more confidently outline a three to five-year program of research. You have some preliminary data and again, to reiterate what Dr. Green said, there is no specific dollar cap on the R01, so we know some of these projects, if you are bringing in expert observers, they are going to be expensive. If the costs are going to exceed half a million dollars in any given year, then you are going to need to ask for some advance permission, but there is no specific cap on the R01, whereas the R21s are capped at $275K. This is a PAR announcement. What that means for you is that, first of all, we have arranged for special review, for a special emphasis panel. This will not go to the regular standing study sections. The review panel will be recruited from across the various disciplines that I have outlined earlier, and so keep that in mind when you are formulating your proposal. We do not have a specific set-aside of money for this PAR, so there is not one pool of money and once it’s spent it’s exhausted. On the one hand, that means that we are not guaranteed to fund anything, but then again, even if we have a pool of money we are not guaranteed to fund it. On the positive side of things, the number of projects we can fund is essentially limited by the number of projects that score really well. If you all score really well, we can fund a lot of grants, and there is no specific upper limit on the number on things we can fund either. To reiterate, we are welcoming contributions from international researchers. In general, at NIH, unless the funding opportunity says otherwise, international investigators are welcome to apply, but there's an additional level of justification. You have to justify why the research has to be carried out at the foreign laboratory, not at a U.S.-based laboratory. In the specific case of this particular announcement, if you are, say, in France and you are investigating a particular procedure that French pathologists do that does not show up anywhere else, and French pathologists perform better or worse than people in the U.S. or somewhere else, then it’s obvious why the research has to be done in France. Or if you are a U.S.-Australian collaboration exploring differences between U.S. and Australian radiologists, for example, again that is going to be sort of a slam dunk in terms of justifying why we have to fund an international site. And I think that covers the basics. I will hand this back over to Dr. Green to cover the resources. [Paige Green speaking] Thanks, Dr. Horowitz. I know that I flew through the first couple of slides, but if there any questions about the particular mechanisms that we use, the use of the PAR to solicit this type of research, definitely send those questions in, and we can fill in the blanks during the question-and-answer period. Here on the slide we want to remind you to read the funding opportunity announcement exceptionally carefully. The R21 announcement can be found by searching PAR-17-124, and the R01 announcement can be found as listed under the announcement number PAR-17-125. The earliest submission date is April 30, 2017, so next month, or that is when the applications can been received into the system, and our first due date for applications is actually a month later on May 30, 2017. And you see the other due dates as listed on the slide. It would be most helpful if you submitted a letter of intent 30 days prior to the application due date. What this helps us do is to help the review group identify potential reviewers for the applications that are slated to come in for any given round. The letter of intent gives us a sort of heads-up that your application is going to be received, and we are likely to try to search to find reviewers that could actually be approached to review for that particular round. The earliest start date for applications received for the first submission date of May 30th is April 2018, and the FOAs expire currently September 27, 2019. What is most important in developing your application is to start early. Make sure that you read the FOAs very carefully again, that you are in contact with program, principally at NCI, Dr. Todd Horowitz, but also make sure that you are in contact with our colleagues at NIBIB and in the Division of Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment at NCI for ideas that may fall under their purview. And so, as I said, the program contacts here at NCI are Dr. Horowitz, and you see Dr. Pai and Dr. White at the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering. They are our collaborators on this particular FOA. As mentioned earlier, the webinar and list of Frequently Asked Questions will be posted online. You can also connect specifically to Dr. Horowitz through the link that's posted on the slide, and I want to remind you that you are free to connect with any staff member, scientific staff member, in our programs, and you can find our staff profiles and information at the link under staffprofiles.cancer.gov/brp. And also submit your questions to our program at any time at the email address that is listed at the bottom of this slide. All right. The moral of the story is to stay connected with us. Sign up for our email updates, follow us on Twitter, and with that, we will close the formal presentation of this webinar and open the floor up to your questions. All right. Where should begin? Dr. Horowitz, I assume you will answer this one. Does NCI have a database available of different cancer images? Are there existing resources available to NIH researchers and cancer image databases for their use? [Todd Horowitz speaking] Yes. That is a really good question. And the answer is yes. The cancer imaging program, which is under the auspices of Dr. Shankar maintains a cancer imaging archive that has a wealth of images with various cancers, and we will put up a link to the cancer imaging archives on the FAQ. Also, the National Lung Screening Trial has 75,000 CT images and 1,200 pathology images available, including both normal and abnormal images, so again we will include that in FAQ. Dr. Shankar, do you have any other suggestions? [ Pause ] Anyway, there are a number of sources. We will put together what we have and make that available on the FAQ for people. [Paige Green speaking] Wonderful. Is there an organized place or venue for testing experts like a mobile lab at a radiology conference? [Todd Horowitz speaking] That is an excellent question because again, the answer is yes. In conjunction with this FOA, NCI has been sponsoring, last year we started sponsoring a mobile lab at the Radiological Society of North America, and 172 radiologists participated as research subjects in experiments from nine different labs at that mobile lab. We are hoping to expand the program in the coming year and possibly bring it to other conferences. Keep an eye out for announcements for the perception lab at RSNA; those will go out over various email lists. [Paige Green speaking] Given that one of your goals is to sort of bridge basic perception research in this context of cancer imaging, do you offer a tutorial for scientists who don't have a lot of expertise in cancer image interpretation to learn more about medical images or how you diagnose different types of medical conditions using images? [Todd Horowitz speaking] I had not thought of that in advance, but that is a fantastic idea, so I’ll talk to my colleagues and see if we can arrange something, probably in a webinar format like this. [Lalitha Shankar speaking] Todd, if I may, this is Lalitha Shankar. I was speaking before but I had muted myself. I did not realize. One of the things that I wanted to share along with the RSNA perception lab that you were discussing, which is an excellent activity. ACR, which is the American College of Radiology, has a variety of programs primarily meant to educate residents and fellows, but also has potentially an opportunity to do some of the testing that may be relevant for this sort of grant portfolio, so that is another group who should be considered. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Thank you. That is really useful. [Paige Green speaking] All right. Dr. Horowitz, you say that this is a program announcement with special receipt review. Who will actually review these applications? It seems that we are getting questions that acknowledge that this is a small research community and given how exciting this potential funding opportunity is, seems that many potential reviewers will be submitting applications themselves, so where will you find reviewers that have the capacity to review applications that come in? [Todd Horowitz speaking] As I mentioned in the presentation, we are trying to cast a wide net with respect to the disciplines that we want to get involved here in submitting proposals, and we will take the same approach to the review panel. We here in program don’t specifically pick the reviewers. That is done by the Center for Scientific Review, but presumably they're going to ask us for advice, and we are going to try and draw from not just from medical image perception specialists. I understand that is a relatively small field, and hopefully everybody's going to be applying for grants, but also people who are perception or cognition researchers who might not be specialists in medical image perception would be eligible both as grantees but also as reviewers. Conversely, in order to have expertise on the actual cancer imaging side, we will hopefully be able to get people who are professional imaging specialists to review to provide that expertise. Again, this is where submitting letters of intent will be very, very useful for us. It will give us an idea of not only what disciplines -- what specialties – we are going to need to recruit for reviewers in order to review your proposal the best, but it also will let us know that you’re submitting a proposal and we should not be asking you to be a reviewer. Please get those letters of intent in. [Paige Green speaking] Wonderful, wonderful. I think that you might have covered this in one of your last slides, but are there limits on available funds, or is there a set number of grants that can be funded under this opportunity? [Todd Horowitz speaking] There are no limits except for the fact that, of course, we have -- ultimately our funding is limited, but not specifically limited for this proposal. As I said in the presentation, the limit is basically, we are limited by how well you do in the review process. If there are a lot of high-scoring, or low-scoring, I guess, proposals, we will be able to fund a lot of proposals. There is no specific cap as there would be if we had a set-aside. [Paige Green speaking] I think another sort of highlight of using the PAR is that we have multiple receipt dates so that also allows for there to be a three-year period in which this portfolio can be built. [Todd Horowitz speaking] That is right. I didn’t mention that in the presentation. The FOA is going to last for three years. We have two receipt dates every year, and again, please read the announcements closely because we have special review, that means that the receipt dates are different from the standard receipt dates, so they are sort of staggered from the normal receipt dates so that the CSR can deal with them separately. So it is not the standard dates that you might be used to. All right. We can take some of the things that are coming in online now. Okay. I'm going to stay away from questions about particular research questions. Feel free, by the way, to email me if you have questions -- if you want me to let you know whether your specific research question is responsive or if I have suggestions. Somebody asks, I am a U.K. researcher in observer performance. The application I was proposing is not specific to U.K. practice. Is it worth applying? That is going to depend on the specific proposal, but I would say that what we would need to do is find a reason why you are the best person in the world to do this particular line of research. It makes it a lot easier if you are saying, here's how we do things in the U.K. and we get better performance. Let’s figure out why, but it is perfectly possible to justify research at a U.K. institution if we can come up with some other reason why you're the person best suited to do it. Again, I would encourage you to contact me specifically, and we can talk about the problem in more detail. How do you ensure that scientific reviewers will not penalize R21s that do not have preliminary information? The answer is that we don't have any direct mechanisms of controlling the reviewers. We have, however, written it specifically into the funding opportunity announcements that we discourage preliminary data. And when we communicate with the SRO, the person running the review panel, we will ask him or her to stress that to the participants – to the reviewers – so we will do our best to communicate to the reviewers, and hopefully they will listen. [Lalitha Shankar speaking] Right. Both the SRO as well as the chair of the review section usually reiterates this several times during the review. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Thank you. How important is the research in non-experts? If we have an interesting and potential technique for improving experts, can we use only experts in our grant? Yes. You can use only experts in your grant. What we are looking for is  research that is motivated by a strong perceptual hypothesis. We think that it is going to be in many cases easier to do a lot of the work in non-experts, but we are certainly not going to penalize you for studying experts. [Paige Green speaking] I know that you had spoken specifically of cancer images, in particular, but suppose you have someone who is interested in neuroimaging. Is neuroimaging an appropriate context for this fellow? [Todd Horowitz speaking] Neuroimaging as a research technique or studying how people interpret neuroimaging? [Paige Green speaking] For studying how people interpret neuroimaging. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Yes. I mean there are -- there are brain cancers, so neuroimaging, definitely -- one could definitely make the leap to cancer there. [Paige Green speaking] Thank you. [Lalitha Shankar speaking] In fact, that is a very perplexing area because of the issues of trying to distinguish between radiation necrosis, steroid effect, and recurring tumors and things of that sort. Yes, it is of very high interest for us in cancer diagnosis and management. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Good question. How basic might the research be to get funded? Must medical images be included in the grant proposal, per se? Not necessarily. You are going to have to make the case that the perceptual problem, the perceptual cognitive problem, you are studying is really important for medical image interpretation, but I don't think the proposal has to include medical images. Is the  research funding available for student researchers as well? That’s a good question. The mechanisms that we are funding are the R01 and the R21, so we are not directly funding any fellowships off this funding opportunity announcement. Although if you have a fellowship proposal that fits in this area, please contact me, and we could talk about that separately. However, if there is a PI coming in, a faculty researcher who is proposing an R01 that will fund student researchers as part of the research team, that is, of course, quite acceptable. [Paige Green speaking] In that case I would assume that diversity supplements are a possibility. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Yes. Good point. Thank you. In addition to research on visual perception cognition, will you also consider research are other sensory modalities involving cancer detection such as haptic perception, palpation for soft-tissue screening, or multimodal approaches? I had not thought about haptic perception, but I would say yes, if you can make a strong case that there is a perceptual issue here, and you can convince the reviewers, we would be happy to fund that. And definitely multimodal approaches, our branch is also definitely interested in multi-sensory perception, so that would be among several issues that we are prioritizing. Good question. Again, I'm sort of skipping over – if you have questions that are about specific research proposals or questions about what has or has not been done in his field, I’m skipping over those because I really want to get to questions about the grant funding process. Being an international applicant, how does the new government affect the international applications for research grants? At the moment I would say it does not. Nothing in terms of how NIH or NCI is funded or is operating, nothing has changed since the beginning of the new administration, and we do not expect it to. So far we are above politics. As long as they keep funding us. Let's see. If we wish to do a different kind of deep machine learning rather than the standard CAB images, should we applying and talking with BRP or NIBIB? I would suggest that you would talk to NIBIB, Is that right, Dr. Pai? [Vinay Pai speaking] Yes, definitely. If you are developing new approaches in machine learning techniques, or if you are, come talk to us first. And after you talk to me, and I you feel that it is too far downstream from NIBIB’s interests I can make you go back to Todd and talk to him. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Dr. Pai, do you have anything else you want to add? [Vinay Pai speaking] No. I think that is pretty much it. I mean the one thing I would say is when I say multidimensional we are talking digital tomography, I mean, this [Indiscernible] kind of data with time added on so those kind of data sets and looking at analytics related to that is something we are interested in and [Indiscernible] when you have low-dose CT imaging systems where those reductions are in place and the question is how well does image perception work is what we are interested in. Thanks. [Todd Horowitz speaking] How much does your funding agency work on neuromorphic hardware and so far it seems like a little promising along with neural networks. I don't know. Dr. Pai, neuromorphic hardware? [Vinay Pai speaking] We don't have too much, so you could send me a white paper or a one-pager or an email, and we can discuss it off-line. Hardware, I don't see too much. We see a lot of the software, but not too much hardware yet. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Examining methods of teaching radiology necessitates a large number of trainees and access for longer than we can have at RSNA. Any advice on how to get around that problem? My first pass would be that again you want to -- this might be an ideal case for developing the program on non-radiologists, figuring out what the perceptual principles are before moving to trainees, but specifically, if you're trying to get a hold of time with radiology trainees, I don't have any specific suggestions, but I would be happy to talk to you about the problem. Here we go. If we have some pilot data, is it best if we talk to you before deciding if it is R01 or R21, or does pilot data showing proof-of-concept exclude the R21 mechanism, and if it is only one study and six radiologists, is that enough data for applying for R01? I think in this case, in cases like this, you should definitely send me an email and we can talk about this in more detail. The general approach here is that if you have proof-of-concept, then you are probably ready to move on to an R01. But I understand there might be some proposals where pilot data exists but might not be sufficient for an R01. We can talk about that off-line. Here is one for Dr. Pai. Will NIBIB be interested in multi-dimensional signals collected from pathology data in the context of machine learning? Does it have to include perception as a driving hypothesis? [Vinay Pai speaking] For this particular PAR, yes, perception has to be driving the problem that you are developing. If you're interested in pathology, you can come into it separately in a different regular initiatives. We can talk about that separately. I mean, NIBIB would be interested, not through this particular PAR. [Todd Horowitz speaking] Another thing to remember is that there are proposals that may be of interest to either NCI or NIBIB that don’t fit under this FOA, but we might fund them under a different mechanism, so please contact myself or Dr. Shankar or Dr. Pai. Here is another question. I'm interested in how dermatologists diagnose cancers effectively from tele-dermatology images. Is this of interest to the proposal? Yes. Will proposals sent to NIBIB or NCI be reviewed separately by two different review panels? No, we will have a special emphasis panel for this FOA, which will be shared by all proposals coming in under the FOA, whether they eventually get assigned to NCI or NBIB. Review, in this case, is sort of carried out separately from the institutes. Okay. Here’s another question coming in. Can the proposals be made three years in advance? What is the best time to start the application so as to continue right after the PhD? Between the time that you submit the proposal and the time that the proposal gets funded is a minimum of nine months to start with. I don't think you can submit a proposal, have it awarded, and then say you're not going to start work for another three years, if that is the intent. It is difficult to guarantee that a proposal will be funded at a particular time because you might have to go through a couple rounds to get it funded. If you’re a graduate student or postdoc and planning to move on to a faculty position, there are specific mechanisms for that. There are training grants called K awards, and there is a K99/R00 where you propose a project that will sort of bridge from being dependent on an advisor to getting your first faculty position. Those don’t come under this FOA, but again, if you're in that situation and you have an idea that we might be interested in, contact me and I can direct you to the training resources, but if you are currently a PhD student and you want to submit an application, this is maybe not for you. Will my proposal be kept confidential as it will be coming from a small for-profit business? [Paige Green speaking] All applications are kept confidential. [Todd Horowitz speaking) Yes. All applications are kept confidential. [NCI staff speaking] It looks like the questions have been slowing down. If you continue to have questions, please email the email address found at the bottom of this page, and questions will be addressed, and it will also be the FAQ page following today's webinar where a recording will be posted as well within the next week or two. With that, I would like to thank our moderator and speaker, Todd Horowitz, for a great discussion, and thank you again for your participation. 