 Digital assistants are really an exciting and emerging area of artificial intelligence. Now what you're able to get from them is that they can answer simple queries and give back answers to you, but we're just staring to sort of see more intelligent processing of a broader range of questions that lead to actual actions, be that booking an appointment or ordering some goods online. Digital assistants will evolve to know more things about the world and us, to better respond in our context with things that are relevant for us, and then also be proactive about suggesting things that we might want. Assistants can file a complaint or just interact with the insurance company. I think, over time, if these become really personalized and know the preferences of the user, then the whole interaction around the entire portfolio of insurance becomes much more efficient for them. I think it gives the insurance industry a real opportunity to reinvent itself so that it becomes a partner and part of almost like a virtual wallet for a consumer instead of a this thing that I have to do. Could you imagine a world without having a mobile phone that you can run your lives off? Can you imagine a world where there was no internet? In years to come, that's how we'll look at digital assistance and go, "Did I really sit at a computer and fill this form out myself?" The moment of truth is when we have the claim. There is where digital assistant will make the biggest difference. You had an accident. You lost your baggage or someone died. The assistant in here helps you specifically on the spot. People talk with these assistants for what they were intended and built for, but they may also start to say things that these assistance were not trained for. We need good AI ethics, applied ethics, because there are many ethical and legal issues following on the heels of this technological development. We might lose control of what is actually happening with, as an example, military applications of AI. There will be many beneficial contexts like, for instance, in medicine, in science, but the question is always to ask does it really improve my quality of life? Today, that device dominates me. In 10 years, it's my assistant. We bring something new into our lives which will be fundamentally transformative, and we need to accept that, and there I'm not that sure how well we are in adapting. At least humans typically tend to take much more time than technology to adapt. 