 when I went to the church I was told my husband abandoned me because I gave birth to twins they said I can't get help from the church, that I should seek help somewhere and that is the time I needed him the most because at the hospital I was alone no one was visiting me, all my friends even disappeared I was left alone with the kids I was asking God not to let me leave the hospital without my kids at least My name is Rose Shirley Nambia, I am a mother of twins namely Pracious and Tracious they were born prematurely at 7 months, they had to be placed in a nursery they stayed there for 2 months so I was told I will stay in the hospital for 2 months at least for the kids to mature a little bit their dad came to the hospital a day after I gave birth and the following day he packed and left I stayed there for 2 months then I was discharged when I reached home, the only thing that was in the house was my clothes a lady my neighbour who has a shop gave me cartons that is what is was using as our bedding with the children who settled the hospital bill? it was by God's grace, I was just told my children and I had been discharged which hospital was that? Thika Medical they just told you that you have been discharged with your children after being admitted for 2 months? Yes, that was just God I just left and no one asked me anything, a lady at the hospital helped me put one of the children on my back, I carried the other in my arms I stayed in hardship for 3 months then I decided to go to my church at least to seek help when I explained to them what had happened, they told me my husband ran away because I had given birth to twins they asked me to seek help elsewhere since they could not help me the church told you that? Yes, I was so heartbroken and vowed never to set foot in church again life was so tough, everything had turned against me where were you getting food and that time you were lactating? I used to offer laundry services, then use the KSh 200 I earn to budget for a meal my children were 4 months when I begun the laundry services so I used to go with them do the job then come back to the house as time was going by I was worried my children were growing and I had no one to help me take care of them I had to look for another job, so I went to a quarry to work as a casual laborer, I would wake up early, prepare porridge and leave with my children I would work from 8 am to 6 pm at 10 am I would take porridge and in the evenings too, that was my daily meal I even worked in construction sites, I used to go with my kids, do the job then come back with them to the house in the evening that is how my children and I would survive until when the corona outbreak was announced life became even worse no one was willing to allow me do laundry for them because again children are at home at the moment, they do the washing there's no job even at construction sites, same as the quarry, I have just been sitting here in the house A neighbour might give you food for a day or 2 but after that you have to sort yourself out I used to have cabbage in this house, I would boil it and put some soup to feed the children that happened for a week after that I met a lady who is my neighbour, I asked her if she was aware about a woman who had killed her children she asked me why I was having such thoughts I told her life had become unbearable with no one to support me, so I wanted to commit suicide I had reached the end I had not settled my rent right from March to August I was scared of picking his calls, he was now calling my neighbours telling them to ask me to vacate his house, just where was I supposed to go yet I had sold almost everything in the house? the only solution at that time was to commit suicide to me the next world would be better a place for my children and I the lady became really worried for me, she would often check on me and the kids where were your parents and family as well? My children are my only family, I lost my parents long time ago but where is your home? Kakamega my brother and I were raised by our grandmother who passed on later then my brother sunk into drugs and it did not take long before he passed on too so while I was at home a lady from Thika asked me to come over so that she would help me get a job even if it's working as a house help that is how I ended up in Nairobi how did you meet your baby daddy and what type of a person was he? We met in Thika, I used to live with that lady but after the guy promised to marry me I was okay with it were you guys in love? totally, I never knew he would turn his back on me since he left, has he ever communicated? Never, I even disposed my sim card which had his contacts after 6 months because I just wanted to move on with my life I have no idea if he is still alive do you know about his family? he promised to take me to his parents after delivering, but then he disappeared I can see you have a few items in the house but you had told me initially you had nothing, where did you get all these? Alice is the reason I am here today I used to sleep on the floor, she bought me a bed, utensils she bought me this blanket May God bless her how did you meet? When Kameme posted my plight on Youtube, so those abroad were sending me support she then sent her team who came to see me after which they promised to come back and buy me some items what are you currently engaging in? nothing really are you not offering laundry services? everyone's saying there is no job talk to Kenyans and tell them what you would want to do, because Alice has bought you some items perhaps someone else would want to support you I want to do business what sort of business? to run a green grocery, because staying idle won't help me in any way otherwise I might end up in a worse situation yet the children need my support, so I want to do business do you have experience in business or you would want some training? someone out there might be watching and maybe they want to offer help in such a way because at times people start up businesses then end up closing down soon after sure I would be needing help although I used to sell kales but with business you just don't start blindly because if you are not careful you won't make it how much is the rent for this house? KSh 2,000, Alice sent me the cash for this month our very own Alice? Yes the same one how do you feel when you see strangers coming out to help you? and what can you tell them? May God bless you all and may you never lack Amen we hope after this how many others will come out to support, not necessarily financially but also encourage you did your church give you any reason why they abandoned you with your twins? they told me I was summoned after the service on that Sunday and they told me I gave birth to twins, my baby daddy left me You have nothing in the house, poverty is all over you they asked me if I ever pray and I said yes I do they said it seems I don't pray too hard for God to listen I was told I will spread poverty to others who was telling you all that? those ladies who sit next to the alter what is the name of the said church or maybe we should mention it? how is your faith now after you were sent away from church? I accepted maybe it was the spirit of rejection but I chose never to give up on God no matter what people say I chose God have you forgiven them,? Yes I did what about the father of your kids? I forgave him but we can't get back together even if he wants to see the children? no way why? he left me when I needed him the most, the children were in the incubator after being born prematurely I was alone in the hospital, no one was visiting me even friends they all ran away, I was just alone with my children My prayer was that I should not leave the hospital without my children and God granted me my prayer, I left the hospital with my children who were very healthy what message do you have for the father of your children? I want him to know I forgave him long time ago and I have nothing against him God knows that but we can't get back together I know right now you might be a little bit strong but what kept you going during the difficult moments? Jesus Christ because there's a lady who approached me and told me that even if I commit suicide the sin will be upon me and I will not see the kingdom of God those words were so powerful, I decided not to commit suicide and kill my children but instead put all my trust in Christ because he will eventually fight for me what can you tell those parents who abandon their children? it is wrong to abandon your children because you never know what they will become in future you might meet someday in future and when you get to hear that child you abandoned is your own, you will regret but it will be too late please do not abandon your children thank you, we wish you all the best when are the children celebrating their birthday? 3rd May how old are they now? A year and 4 months now You have done a great job mum May God bless you guys too thank you My people, I hope you have been following and I hope her story has really inspired you when your life seems hard, think about what she went through but she chose not to give up I don't know from when and she has a Channel called Eagles Eye, you guys can check it out and see how she has been supporting Kenyans and don't forget to support us on our Patreon Program you can see we already have those who have already supported us 