 Here is the SCOAN's prayer line, where people have come from all over the world just to receive a touch from Jesus Christ, believing that He will put an end to their suffering. Prophet T.B. Joshua is demonstrating that the Jesus Christ he knows is Jesus Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit. Right now, we can see sickness and demons going out because Prophet T.B. Joshua has commanded them to go, in Jesus' name. Here is Linda Marsh from the USA, who has come to The SCOAN with the problems of heart disease and severe depression. Here we can see her testifying to the glory of God in her life. Let us see how the miracle took place. Linda Marsh is seated at the prayer line section, at The SCOAN in a desperate situation. She is demonstrating how she normally uses the oxygen mask she has been depending on for so long. Unable to breathe properly without this peace of equipment, she cannot live a normal life. Prophet T.B. Joshua instructs Linda Marsh to remove the mask because he knows that in Jesus Christ we have victory over sickness and disease. Christ's victory gives us victory. We can see Prophet T.B. Joshua giving her words of encouragement and assurance that the truth will set her free today and that God can make a way where there seems to be no way. "I CAN BREATHE NOW!!!" | USA Citizen 'Hugged' Back To Life! In the mighty name of Jesus Christ, be healed! What a means of blessing, healing, deliverance and freedom is the look of faith to Christ Jesus. Hallelujah! The man of God has declared her free. I came here for the man of God to lay his hands on me because I knew God was going to heal me in this place. Hallelujah! By faith I got on that plane and I flew over here because I knew God was going to heal me. I feel so good; I am able to breathe! Until you have had problem, you don't know. Every time you take a step, it's hard to breathe. I have had to use all these instruments. I have had to use all kinds of medicine that have bad side effects and cause other problems. They told me I would be on medication the rest of my life but I praise God, I can breathe! Healed Of Chronic Lung Infection No Longer Using A Nebulizer There is no shortness of breath and I am not dizzy! To God be the glory! TESTIMONY TIME My name is Linda Marsh and I am from United States. I came to The SCOAN because of heart and lung problems. I had been using oxygen every night and it was very hard for me to move around and breathe without being on the oxygen at night. I had to take two to three or even four breathing treatments a day. I couldn't stand being outside in the heat. I couldn't do a lot of walking. I had to have people help me to get around. I came for the Lord to touch me and for Prophet T.B. Joshua to pray for me. I thank God that ever since I was prayed for the other night, I have not used the oxygen. I haven't used any breathing treatments. You can tell it is hot and I am walking a lot better; I thank God for touching me. I just give God all the glory! Could you tell us what you had to do with this? You are not on it now. Have you taken any medicine since you were prayed for? I haven't had any oxygen or any breathing treatments at all. And you can now climb up the stairs. I have had to climb up and down the steps and it seems like it gets a little bit easier every time. What was your experience in the prayer line, when the Prophet T.B. Joshua prayed for you, in the name of Jesus? I felt like the breath of God just came into me! [Hallelujah!] That's how I felt. I just love Him more, I just praise God. I knew God was going to touch me if I came over here. Some friends had asked for me to come but I was so sick that I was really afraid to make the trip. I thank God that He made a way for me to be here among the people to see the glory of God. I truly thank Him. He has changed my life. I know my family, when I get off that plane, are going to know that God has changed me, touched me and healed me for His glory. What would be your testimony, what would you tell them? I am going to tell them - just look at me! I am a testimony in myself! My doctors had done all they could do for me. The diagnosis they had given me was that it was only going to get worse. My mother died with emphysema and I watched her die little by little. My doctors told me I was not going to get any better. As a matter of fact, my doctors did not want me to come over here. As a matter of fact, one of my doctors told me when I get back to the USA, they were going to give me an IQ test to check me mentally. We know Jesus though is the great Physician. That's right. - Not the practising physician, right? - Right. What is your promise and confession? I confess Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour and I will go and sin no more! Amen. We believe you will keep that healing based on your confession of faith in Jesus Christ. - Amen? - Amen. Prophet T.B. Joshua did not ask for anything from us before praying for us. He never asked for any money or anything. The food that I have received here has been free. They have let me sleep and they have taken good care of me here. It's all been without charge and I give God the glory! TT Robert Begier 08/07/2020 