 REBECCA ARCE:	Hi. Welcome to our session on the history of medical testing in Oregon and the nation. I'm here with my co-host Mireya, and we are going to  walk you through  this module today. My name is Rebecca Arce. I am the Service Equity Manager for Aging and  People With Disabilities at the Oregon Department  of Human Services. I'm housed in our  Office of Equity  and Multicultural Services. And Mireya? MIREYA WILLIAMS: Hello. My name is Mireya Williams, and I also am  a service equity manager for the Self-Sufficiency  programs with the Oregon  Department of Human Services. -Thank you. And as you can see,  we're also joined  by Elizabeth today. Um, she will not  be participating  in our conversation, but she is helping us out  with our captioning, so as you watch this  from home and you're  in need of captioning, that's what Elizabeth  has helped us with. So um, we're going to  jump into our module and start sharing  my screen with you, and you're watching this because you will be going into our  long-term care facilities and testing not only  our residents but our staff. And it's important to know how healthcare systems, communities of color, people with disabilities, our LGBTQIA class individuals and veterans have a history of mistrust with government testing. Although you are a contractor because this is an executive order by our governor, you may be seen or perceived as government. So in this module our hope is that  you'll understand why it's important to know this history of testing so you can help our staff and residents, um, feel like they're honored and trusted in this process and that you could  also develop that basis of trust by applying  what you learned here to the testing process. I wish I could  ask you questions, but um, because we are doing this online I've asked Maria to join us so that we could have  more of a dialogue if, as if we were in person together, so we'll all be  learning together today. So, this mistrust is rooted in eugenics, and while  Charles Darwin's doctrine of survival of the fittest was not rooted in eugenics, um, the idea of creating  a better citizen came from the idea of survival of the fittest. And in 18, 17th, 18th centuries, the, um, scientists really wanted to speed progress of humanity, and they thought that they could achieve that by creating better citizens, and this meant making sure that, um, and I'm choosing my words carefully here which is why I'm pausing, making sure that certain populations were contributing to that betterment of society, which the word better is also subjective, so we have to think about who the scientists were then and what they thought would be better. Mireya, can you walk us through the legacy of testing on who we thought it was okay to do these tests on? -Yes. Thank you, Rebecca. So people of color, immigrants, poor people, women, people with disabilities, people experiencing mental health needs, holocaust survivors, veterans, LGBTQIA plus individuals are all a legacy of medical testing, have a legacy of medical testing. Many of our policies decisions are made based on who is deserving of public benefits and who is undeserving. Through our own social constructs, our public policy has conveyed the message that people of color, immigrants, poor people, and unmarried mothers are un, **** under, undeserving of public benefits. Sorry, I'm having a difficult  time with my words today. And access to equitable healthcare. Furthermore, while our society may view people with disabilities and mental health needs are viewed as deserving, they are not often in positions of power to make decisions for themselves. Many decisions about healthcare are made for them all. All these factors play into the many, the history of medical testing and how the folks living in long-term care facilities may view governmental health workers coming into the test, in to test them for COVID-19. So it is really important that we establish a relationship and that we build trust with these communities given the history that they hold. In addition to our own American construct around public policy, some of our older American or adults lived through the holocaust where medical experiments were performed on Jewish, Roma, LGBTQ individuals and people with disabilities. There are over 100 holocaust survivors living in the Portland area. Their unique experiences and those of veterans may contribute to distrust, fear, PTSD when it comes to government testing, and this is why it is important for us to understand going into these environments and with our communities. -Thank you. -You're welcome. -And if we remember, one of our first outbreaks in a long-term facility was actually in one of  our veterans homes, so, I want to make sure that we start there as well, so um, we know why there might be some fear for these communities. Um, some examples of this history of medical testing, again we're going back on who is deserving and who is undeserving, who is respected and who is not respected in some of these decision-making policies. Um, the study of modern gynecology was actually performed on enslaved black women, and the doctor would go in and pay for the usage of time for these enslaved women, not give them anesthesia and perform multiple surgeries on them until he perfected the art. Some of the women underwent 20 to 30 surgeries. And then moving forward we had the Tuskegee experiment where, again, African American men, it was supposed to be part of a 6-month study to study syphilis. It ended up going for 40 years. Even after they found a treatment for syphilis, the members of this experiment were not given access to the treatment. Um, they were also not told upfront what the study would entail. They didn't tell them it was about syphilis, and they infected some of them. So this happened between, um, a 40-year span. And moving forward again, um, so we're moving from the 1800s into the 1900s and even up until the 1960s, '70s and '80s. There was forced sterilization of Lat Mex, American Indian and African American women and people with disabilities because they, um, had negative connotations attached to them. One was assimilation, one was immigration, and one was just that people in mental hospitals or in prisons that were seeking public benefits as well, so unmarried women, they were all subject to forced sterilization either to be released from prison or the mental hospital or to get access to public benefits. So I just want that to kinda resonate for a moment. These were folks that, um, might have been put on a path due to the nature of just the group that they were born into, and then to seek help or to seek a better life they had to give up their right to become parents, which can be a very beautiful, lifechanging thing for many folks, and if we think about the way we frame our society around family, we had taken them out of that equation, and some of this is within living memory. Um, forced sterilization happened in Oregon up until 1982, and there's some  further reading here. Um, so up in this century there were at least 148 California inmates, women, that were  forcibly sterilized up until 2010. Um, there is also an in-depth history, the second article if you want to dig into it, about, as it says, the ugly past of U.S. human experiments. These are some things that we don't talk about because it is a shameful part of our past, and I know that you are in the medical industry because you want to help folks, and a lot of this can bring up shame for individuals as well. So this isn't about shaming individuals or the system. It's about knowing how we can improve what we do and come to a holistic world view of what has happened. So if we think about folks that are in long-term care facilities now, they may be in their 70s or their 80s, and this happened in their lifetime, and even if it did not happen to them, it has happened to their loved ones. LGBTQIA plus individuals, I'm gonna go back one slide, LGBTQ plus IA individuals, they were seen as someone with a mental health disorder up until the 1980s, and just based on their sexual orientation could be put in a  mental hospital, and upon release they would have to go through one of these procedures. Those are folks that could be living in our long-term care facility now, facilities now, and the same for unmarried women who are also seen as in that, and you'll see in the article, sexual deviants because they were unmarried and that they were  already mothers. It's just the way that  our society has viewed people again as deserving or undeserving or what is right and what is wrong. So I hope when you go into these facilities and you work, um, through the testing process, if you notice they're hesitant maybe just to think about some of the things that we're talking about here today. I'm gonna have us watch two videos. As you can see, this one is called "No Más Bebés." These are voices of survivors. This is just the trailer for the movie. This is an hour-long video available from OPB Independent Lens, and it talks about the forced sterilization of women who were under duress or actually sedated when they signed consent forms for this. So when they woke up from surgery they found out that they were sterilized, or they found out years later. Give me just one moment while I set this up for you, and captioning is available. MALE SPEAKER:  This baby boy became a citizen  1 minute ago. His mother does not have  immigration papers. SECOND MALE SPEAKER:  They were told they should be sterilized  to save taxpayers welfare mondy. THIRD MALE SPEAKER: Something drastic must be done  about population growth. FEMALE SPEAKER: The doctor walked in and said "we cut your tubes," and I said "why?" He goes "well, you signed for it." I said "me?" I go I don't remember nothing, and I didn't tell my family. I didn't tell anybody. MALE SPEAKER: They were extremely fearful being told that you need an emergency cesarean section and feel blood  pouring down your leg at that time signing a consent  for tubal ligation. MALE SPEAKER: This is the emergency department of Los Angeles County  USC Medical Center. FEMALE SPEAKER: Some of 'em signed  right in the midst of labor. Some of 'em don't even  remember signing. **** is this young lawyer and for the first time telling him do you know that you've been sterilized. We are suing HEW for non-compliance or non-enforcement, not monitoring all the, uh, sterilization regulations. FEMALE SPEAKER: It was just the beginning of the emergence of  the civil rights movement in the Latino community.   FEMALE SPEAKER: We were talking about abortion rights, all of the issues of feminism at that time. The idea that somebody could be forcibly sterilized, like seemed like something out of  a mental institution out of the 1920s. MALE SPEAKER: To claim that  we're part of a greater goal of sterilizing  the Mexican population that immigrates to Los Angeles, I mean, I'm offended by that. That's not what we did. The way I felt when I was young, it doesn't change the way I feel in my heart now that I'm older, but it, it's there all the time. It's like when you bury somebody,  you're always gonna carry it on your head. - And I encourage you if you are curious about that to go ahead and watch the full video. Oh, excuse me, it was still playing  in the background on my end. Um, so again, the full video  is available through OPB Independent Lens available online. And if we look at the woman that was interviewed, this was in, within our lifetime, and I believe it was in 2002 that our governor, John Kitzhaber, offered an apology for all of the 2,000 plus sterilizations that happened in Oregon. What are your thoughts on the video, Mireya? - I just, um, was thinking about, I was born at the, uh, USC Medical Center in 1972, and it's interesting  to think about what my mom's experience could have been in that situation  as an immigrant, um, also, and so it was very, it's very powerful to me and interesting to see, and I can only imagine what she could've gone through. - Right. Thank you. - It's also the reason  that we're in this job as well and wanting to  ensure that we're caring and sensitive and, and this is why we're doing this this training. - Yes. Thank you. Um, I still get chills when I watch this one, being from Southern California, being from an immigrant family  as well, and having a fear of going in for medical procedure that's routine, that, um, should've been accessible for everyone and to not know  what would happen when you would come out. - Yes, absolutely. And I think in, in our community that's why it's, um, there's that hesitancy  of going to the doctor, even just for a checkup, because of all of the, the weight that that carries and just simply thinking about  going to the doctor for all the, the reasons that we just mentioned and **** the trauma  that we carry with us. - Thank you.  And then moving to  a medical facility, like a nursing home,  or residential care facility, there's also just some  life changes and emotions that come with  knowing that you need more  assistance in your life and having to be  very vulnerable  with your care providers, um, and maybe not really being able to explain  why that is. And now we're faced with COVID-19 and the coronavirus and having more people come in and ask to take your blood or to, to have a very  uncomfortable procedure where someone is sticking  a swab in your nose. So if we could sit  with that for a moment and kind of know where that might be  coming from and get curious and not assume but maybe ask how someone is feeling about what's about to happen, if they had any  further questions. And again, I know we're talking to  medical professionals who do this regularly, but just an added thought  for the history. - It looks like we,  you might be a little frozen, Rebecca? - Easily fixed, and it was a good point  to stop the dialogue, so if you have  any other thoughts  I'd hope you share those, and if not,  we can move into  our second video? - Sounds good, yeah. - Okay. - Great, thank you. - Yes, thank you. Our second video is a little bit longer. Um, again, this one is not, um, not Oregon specific, but we mentioned that  there were over  100 holocaust survivors living in Oregon in  the Portland area, and um, just maybe thinking about what they might be going through. So let me get this video up on  the screen for you and then we'll watch this one  together too. Thanks for your patience.  There was an ad that I wanted to go through and  not have you all hear the ad. And this one is pretty moving as well. - There’s no sound to it,  Rebecca. about the Mengele twins. And in that documentary, there was a Nazi doctor  from Auschwitz and I figured if he was alive  in '92, he might be alive in '93, so I got his telephone number, I called him  and invited him to Boston. Well, he told me he was  not willing to go to Boston but he was willing to  meet with me at  his house in Germany. And I didn't plan to  ask him any of these questions. Suddenly I – - Do we have to start over? - No, we're good, we're still recording. So the rest of the video goes on to talk about forgiveness between the doctor and, um, Eva, which I think is  pretty powerful and kind of, um, the reason why  I chose this video is I wanted to talk about  how we can regain trust and the forgiveness process too. This documentary is also, um, available in the full length,  a little bit over an hour, on You Tube, um,  if you would like to watch it. So this one is called I Survived the Holocaust  Twins Experiment, and I see that, um, Frieda has joined us. So Frieda, if you would  introduce yourself please, that would be lovely. FRIEDA BIKELE: Hey, um, my apology. My name is Frieda Bikele. I am the Service Equity Manager  for HR Center  and Shared Services. My apology for joining  you guys late. I was wrapping a meeting, so I just got done. - It’s always lovely  to have you, Frieda. And um, we just watched this video, and I wanted to get some feedback or thoughts when you watched this video, or I don't know when you  joined us, Frieda, um, if you saw any of it, and just have a dialogue  about this, what they were talking about  with the medical experiments. - Wow. Um, you know, I, it just made me think about,  you know, I have twins. I can't imagine being in that situation or either having my children to be pulled away from me  in that manner. It just, and then for them to have to  suffer through all of the experiments that they went  through at such a young age. I just, it's heartbreaking, it's to know what environments  we're going into and what people's experiences  have been and just, um, being compassionate  and empathetic when we're talking with them. - Thank you. Frieda, did you get to watch  any of the video? - No I haven't, but I can just go off  what Mireya said. Because I’ve had  a long experience dealing with the  healthcare system here, and I think that goes back  to the issue of trust. When does the trust, when did the fracture happen? So I think this is what,  you know, has led to us being now, you know,  not really trusting the system and the medical, the healthcare system  and even with practitioners. So, again, I think, uh, you know,  I kind of have, you know, that shared fears where  I had a real sick child and, you know,  the treatment wasn't  appropriate to where I'm now very anxious every time I  have to send her off to some kind of, you know, exam or some kind  of treatment, even  some kind of medication. I now question everything,  something I used not to, but that comes from  the fact that, you know,  the more you interact, the more you  see things that are  happening to your child, and the protective mechanics  enforced in you have to be, you have to protect  how much treatment you give. So yeah. - Thank you. And um, I know I said we were gonna  talk about some Oregon things  and some national things too, and um, this is just a legacy that most folks know about because it was a huge event in our world, and we know that over 6 million Jewish, Roma, LGBTQIA plus  and people with disabilities were murdered during this,  this period. But um, Eva, the woman in the video, she actually lived until,  um, 2017, and she was still on the road  doing, um, presentations and discussions  about what happened to her, and I think it's just  a testament to the human spirit and, like I said,  that forgiveness can play a big role into that  and regaining trust. So I encourage you to finish watching that video  if you're curious. So I'm gonna jump back  into our slide deck here. I have a few more things  for you to, um,  just think about, and then we're gonna  go into a reflection. Okay. So um, Frieda, talked about this too, so it's not just testing. Healthcare and  access to that healthcare is not equitable, and so a few of our populations that will be in our  long-term care facilities are returning veterans  and our LGBTQIA folks. Um, now, some of our, our veterans were not celebrated when they returned from overseas and I'm talking specifically  about Vietnam. Um, there were some very short periods of war that we had in the gulf  in the 1990s, and there was, in that time there was a stigma  of mental health needs of what it meant to return as a veteran and reenter  into civilian society. Um, we didn't talk a lot about  traumatic brain injury as well and the behaviors  that come with that, um, and still today we know that  there is inadequate staffing  at facilities. So just because we have a VA doesn't mean that everyone's getting the access to the healthcare they need when they need it, and that can also create  distrust in our system. And for LGBTQIA plus individuals you've heard a lot about  the history of eugenics and their role in being part of the mental health  population that was  deemed undeserving but also, um, in the AIDS and HIV epidemic, which I'm glad Frieda's here  because she actually worked, um, with OHA  in the AIDS HIV field. And there was a period of time for a decade when our  black and brown LGBTQIA people were not receiving healthcare. Um, there was a stigma  tied to AIDS and HIV that prevented them  from getting treatment and even studies to find cures. Um, it wasn't until Ryan White, a young man who was of European  American descent actually contracted the  virus through a, um, blood transfusion, and then the medical research  started pouring in to find  a cure, or at least a treatment that  would be life sustaining. So I just paused there  for a moment because I wanted to think about the thousands of lives  that were lost in our  black and brown communities by being ignored from our system and then what it took for the US to invest in finding a cure. And um, some anti-discrimination,  I'm sorry, some discrimination  still exists, um, for LGBTQ plus population, specifically particularly  our trans individuals. So it was just this year, 2 weeks ago, that we had  a ruling that, um, LGBTQIA plus individuals cannot be discriminated against  in the workplace, but they still don't have those  protections in healthcare. Did you want to add anything  to that, Frieda? - Yeah. I wanna go back to  the AIDS HIV. So even though we were  able to find a cure and make the cure available  to all people in, even in Oregon 50 percent of newly diagnosed  cases are black and brown. We still have not been able  to tell other services based on these groups'  cultural need. We still have not, you know, invested enough resources. Even though the program has over 5 million a year,  we still are not able to, you know, direct resources, you know, to that  specific community, even though we look at  the numbers, you know, and we have  community partners out there who are willing to do the job, but it's not just,  'cause again, we, we are living in a system  that's deeply rooted, you know, on racism, so racism still impacts  the way people, brown,  black and brown, are allowed to have,  to get access to care. We even have a case, cases where your immigration status  should not apply when it comes to accessing HIV  and AIDS care, but caseworkers in field still are asking people to  show them for identification, even though the law says no, people should have access. So just showing how even now, even though the program  has been out there for  a long time now, people still don't have access. That's critical, and again, and this disease is greatly impacting  a specific community, LGBTQ, you know, so yeah. - Thank you, Frieda, and that history of being  ignored for so long, it can be generational and why our black and brown communities still don't want to have  access to services or even talk about  what's going on because they fear that  they will be ignored. And um, I don't know if anyone here  has seen Jim Silent or knows  about Jim Silent, but it's a whole documentary, documentary series again  how, um, folks from this, this  LGBTQIA community, how they have to go back into the closet when they enter long-term care because the facilities  can be welcoming,  but sometimes the residents, their fellow neighbors,  are not as welcoming. And when you're taking  a sample from them, it just brings up  so many memories. Thank you both for being here. So why are we talking about  this history and how does it parallel with what we know about COVID-19 testing? So we brought up a lot of things in our talk today, um, and I just wanna  break it down here really quick. So it could bring up post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD because they're reliving their experiences of their past, which is causing them to have  increased trauma, not specifically by COVID-19 but of everything it reminds them of, of everything the testing  reminds them of. They may be in fight or flight. Um, they also may not want to  disclose it because of the stigma  around mental health and being or having institutions involved in their care. Folks might also feel pressured  to do this, and so how are we  letting them know especially it's not for  the staff but for the  residents especially, how do we let them know that  this is voluntary and that there won't be any  negative repercussions for declining testing. Again, you're all in the healthcare field and you know this intuitively. Um, we're just adding  a new layer for you. Anything you'd like to add  Mireya or Frieda? Okay, thank you. All right. So this – - I can add something  real quick. I'm adding, yeah, the previous slide please. I wanna add that, you know,  we also have to keep in mind  that people don't even have to have lived  through these bad experiences, those stories pass on  to the next generation, so they may be reacting to  stories that their communities, their, their people have  gone through, so they also carry those trauma  with them. So you also have to keep that  in mind. - That’s a very important point,  thank you, the community trauma,  the generational trauma, yes, the stories we tell our next generation. So I just wanted to have some  time for us to reflect, and for those of you  that are watching this, maybe if you can jot these down or have a dialogue with someone  that you trust and have these conversations. So just think about a time in  your life when your family member  or loved one needed support when undergoing a medical  procedure or test, so I just want you to think  about that for a moment. And what did that loved one  need from you? What could you give them in  that moment or through the process, and um, what do you wish you could've  done to make them feel safe  and supported, or what did you do to make them feel safe  and supported? So my dad, um, he is an immigrant as well, um, from Mexico, and he has had a  history of strokes, um, and I go with him to do, well, I try to go virtually  over the phone, talk and help  my parents through– Did we freeze? Okay. Did we freeze?  We're back? - Yeah Okay. I try to support my parents  through these processes. Um, I know that they can  feel overwhelmed because of how, the history  that we've had, but um, I always try to at least make sure that there's medication management. I try to explain the procedure  to the best of my understanding  to them, and I make sure that when they're discharged they have  everything that they need. Um, in our culture  I'm the youngest daughter, so I do a lot of caretaking  for my parents, and I feel honored to do that  for them. But that's my culture. What about you, Mireya or Frieda? - Go ahead, Frieda, please. - So to be, to be honest, uh, a medical procedure is always  the last resort. We don't go there first. So, if a family member has to go,  a loved one has to go, I use, I tend to not, I tend to use  every other option  before I get to that point, and when I have to do it I try to find a provider who may, who may look like me  because of mistrust. And I remember delaying my own  daughter's surgery because it was interesting that  the person who was supposed to perform surgery on her  at age 10 months would do, would have  her best interests, so I had to delay until  I found someone who could. So that's, that's just what I, how I approach those procedures  and those tests. - Thank you, Frieda. Yes, um, and we may not have  so many options for this case since we're trying to do testing  through September, but that's important for the folks  that are doing the testing  to know. How do we ease them into this? How do we gain their trust? Thank you, Frieda. Okay, and our next reflection, so how will you approach  the testing process  in long-term care facilities? and moving forward how do you think your  interactions will change with communities who are  undergoing testing, again, all communities, right. This is a legacy for most folks  that are in long-term  care facilities. And what approaches will you  use to build relationships  and establish trust? So um, maybe some tips since we're not the ones actually going in and  doing the testing. We're just here to have this  conversation with you. Um, Frieda or Mireya, how would you like to see  this testing? If this was one of your  loved ones, what would you  want for them? - Thank you, Rebecca. Um, I think it's important  that we really, um, you know, provide our  long-term care, um, participants, customers, with the opportunity to see who they  feel comfortable with or to meet with who they  feel comfortable with, so maybe identifying a cultural  or a linguistic need that is best suited for  that individual. Um, and, and then once that is,  that connection is established to really, again, the compassion, the, you know, sensitivity,  um, approach, all of those pieces are  so important in ensuring that they understand  why we're doing this, um, and how we're here to  support them through  this process. Those are just very important,  um, key elements that we would  all want to know. We all wanna know  what's gonna happen, how it's gonna happen and what, what is it going to do for me. Thank you. - Thank you.  Frieda? - Yeah, to add what Mireya said, and also listen. We have to listen to concerns,  you know, some recommendation, the kind of setting,  maybe in my room  or in the living room. You know, what other things does the client want for them to **** during this process. We have to listen and try, you know, to the best  of our abilities to meet those needs  before we even engage  in this process. - Thank you. And you know, um, we,  I had mentioned about  just being there with my family, and in this case the loved ones cannot be there with the residents or the staff to walk them  through this. This is something that they  have to do on their own as we've limited visitation and taking visitation away from  many people. So um, what I love about working  with Mireya and Frieda is we know we have business to do. We are always busy,  we're always doing things, but we always take a moment just to check in with each other, where are we at right now, how are we feeling before we dive into what's needed today. And um, I know we're on a deadline  to do this work, but I think it would  go smoother, and um, be more calming if we could  just be present in the moment with the folks  that are undergoing the testing, offering the linguistic  and cultural services that they need, and if, um, you are able to just hear, as Frieda said, what they really need  in that moment. They might not tell you because they don't have  the words or they're afraid to, but what does their  body language say? What other words are they using  to describe their hesitancy? And just try to be present  with them. Drawing from your  own well of empathy can be really tiring, especially, um, in the world that we're  living in right now because we all are dealing with our own stress. So please support each other  and take care of yourself, um, so that you can acknowledge  the experiences and validate the fears and  feelings of the staff and the folks that you're  working with. And this last one is not just  for the staff and residents  that we're testing, it's also for you. Respond to yourself and the folks that you interact with, with kindness. Give yourself grace  to make mistakes. Give yourself grace  when you're not feeling  present in the moment. Give yourself and others  words of encouragement and move at a pace that folks  are comfortable with. I know we have a  sense of urgency, and you being in the field and testing folks creates a sense of safety  for many people, and I just thank you so much  for doing the job that you are doing, for keeping  all Oregonians safe. Mireya or Frieda, closing words? - Indeed.  Thank you all so much for, um, taking the time  to do this and really, um, engage with our communities  and, um, again, build those  relationships and be empathetic  while we're going out into their environments as well. Thank you. - And, and also remember that  it's a learning process. You know, we all rely on each  other to learn through this  process and, you know, and rise, so, just, just compassion and love and empathy would get  us through 'cause again we are  working to making Oregon a better and safer place  for all. So just, yeah, so we all rely on you to, to make sure we all get there. Thank you. - And Rebecca, as you said, I really wanna emphasize  the point of taking care  of each other as a team and individually, uh, because if you aren't  taking care of yourselves or you're not taking care  of each other, that you're not gonna be there  for our families who need you and our staff who need you  to conduct these training. 