 With Minnesota practicing stay-at-home right now, the pace of life has definitely changed. You might be getting lots done inside your home, but you're probably trying to spend some time outdoors too. There's lots of bird activity, lawns are greening up, you might have even spotted something blooming. If you're curious and interested in the natural world, why not put that curiosity to good use by participating in a citizen science project? What's citizen science? It's a way for ordinary people to contribute to scientific research without the need for special equipment, special training or huge time requirements. Often you can make observations using what's happening around your own yard. Your curiosity and attention to detail is all that's usually required. For most citizen science projects, you need to create an account on the website. Then you can use tutorials to learn what data to collect and how to submit it. Once you've got that done, you're ready to get started. Here are several great citizen science projects you and your family might want to participate in. Journey North: Journey North was started in 1994 and since then has been tracking migration and seasonals changes across the Northern Hemisphere. Record data, like the first time in the year you see Monarchs, Red-winged Blackbirds or Hummingbirds, and because this program was originally aimed at schools, you'll find lots of resources on the website for ways to integrate observations into a variety of school subjects. A second program is called Budburst: Budburst focuses on plants and their life cycles. Participants collect data about when different kinds of plants leaf out, when they flower and when their fruit is ripe. In the fall, people watch for when the leaves change color and when the leaves completely fall off the trees. Your observations help researchers look for patterns in how ecosystems are being affected by changes in the climate. eBird: do you enjoy watching birds? Then the eBird project is for you. After observing birds in a particular area, you record which species you saw and the size of the group of those species. According to the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, and I quote, "Scientists use these data to reveal how birds are affected by habitat loss, pollution, disease, climate and other environmental changes. Your participation will help us trace bird migration, nesting success and changes in bird numbers through time. These insights inform conservation plans and key actions to protect birds and habitats", unquote. Even on rainy days, there are citizen science projects you can contribute to. A great local project is called Eyes on the Wild. It's kind of like Where's Waldo, but with trail camera images. Cedar Creek Ecosystem Science Reserve, located in the northern Twin Cities, has trail cameras all across their nine square mile property. They've collected millions of images, but need help from citizen scientists to classify the animals in the pictures. It's fun and exciting since you never know for sure what kind of animals may show up! Eyes on the Wild is part of Zooniverse, a clearinghouse of citizen science projects. You can participate in projects from around the world and they focus on diverse topics like the arts, biology, history, literature, nature of medicine and so much more. Here are a few other kinds of citizens science projects that are looking for help from curious people just like you. Many of these projects use data right from your own yard or neighborhood. So, put your curiosity to work and become a citizen scientist today! 