 Joseph Winters : So good afternoon. I want to welcome everyone who's zoomed in to what promises to be a fascinating conversation with Frank Wilson Professor Frank will descend. Joseph Winters : On the topic of the politics of pessimism in an anti black world can imagine a more opportune time to think about some of these things. Joseph Winters : My name is Joseph winners. I am a professor at Duke University and the Department of Religious Studies and African African American Studies, I am one of the co moderators this afternoon, alongside and Maria COO, who is a professor and cultural anthropology. Joseph Winters : And African and African American Studies. This actually this event is part of an ongoing year long set of Joseph Winters : Speaker Series, kind of, you know, talks around issues of blackness politics health and so forth, right associated with the Department of African African American Studies Joseph Winters : I want to give some banks and shout outs to the to the two co sponsors for this event that one is the department of African and African American Studies Joseph Winters : Other is the john Hope Franklin humanities Institute, both at Duke University. Want to thank you very much, their support. Joseph Winters : You know, and helping organizing this. This event with Russell Wilson, I want to especially thank at the Department of African American Studies Joseph Winters : Marc Anthony Neal entire Dixon and at the Franklin humanities Institute Ramsey kind of Sarah Rogers and Pamela Montgomery. Also want to thank our guests obviously professor will just in and also Joseph Winters : Elizabeth Cole at evil twin booking agency. So right now we're going to, I'm going to give a brief introduction of our guests for us, it will just in Joseph Winters : And then festival Justin will give maybe about a 1215 minute reading of one of the excerpts of an excerpt from his recent book Afro pessimism. Joseph Winters : And then for some a coup and myself will have some questions that we've prepared and then while we're doing that. We're also going to be gathering questions in the q&a from the audience. Joseph Winters : Frank be will just and the third is professor and chair of African American Studies and a core faculty member of the cultural theory PhD program at UC Irvine. Joseph Winters : Professor will just sit as an award winning writer, whose books include right after pessimism right published by liver liver right WW Norton. Joseph Winters : Red, White and black cinema in the structure of US antagonisms a Duke. Duke University Press in 2010 an incognito. A Memoir exile and apartheid. Joseph Winters : In 2008 I think reprinted in 2015 that's also by Duke University Press. Joseph Winters : Press it was spent five and a half years in South Africa think between 1991 and 96 where he was one of the two Americans to hold elected office. Joseph Winters : And a half National Congress during the apartheid era. He also was a car in the underground is literary awards include the American Book Award, the Zora Neale Hurston slash Richard Wright legacy Award for creative nonfiction. Joseph Winters : The Maya Angelou Award for Best fiction portraying the black experience in America and National Endowment for the Arts literature fellowship Joseph Winters : Well, listen, was educated at Dartmouth College, where he got an A, B and government in philosophy Columbia University. We got an MFA in fiction writing and UC Berkeley, where he got a PhD in rhetoric and I believe Film Studies on a personal note, Joseph Winters : I've learned a lot from you know fest. And we'll just since facilities since work. Joseph Winters : Over the years, he's definitely reshaped how I think about Black Studies Black Studies, the relationship between blackness and the human Joseph Winters : And I've been very fortunate to talk about his work at Duke University with colleagues like Henry Makoto and also Professor Patrice Douglas. So without further ado, I'm going to be quiet and, you know, allow professor, Professor will listen to speak from his texts Afro pessimism. Frank Wilderson: Hi, Joseph. Good to see you again. Frank Wilderson: Thank you for the introduction. And I want to just say as on a personal note, first of all, thank you for everyone in your in your Frank Wilderson: Your country at Duke. Who made this possible for me to be here. I really appreciate it. It's our second child would love to have been it to Frank Wilderson: In person, but this is the next best thing. And I, you and I spent a few days together in in a closed room with several black theologians at Wabash back in Frank Wilderson: My goodness, was that 2019 Joseph Winters : But year ago exactly a year ago. Frank Wilderson: And it really opened my eyes to the possibilities and interventions of radical black theology. So I've learned a lot from you. Also, I really appreciate that. Frank Wilderson: as we, as we discussed Frank Wilderson: I'm going to jump right in with an excerpt. And I, I won't give too much of a preamble to this excerpt. It's set upset to say that I think Frank Wilderson: It makes some interventions in terms of the cognitive mapping of the times that we're in now. Frank Wilderson: As many people know the way the book is structured is that there are huge moments of memoir and creative writing storytelling and then Frank Wilderson: You blend into a critical theory intervention. And so what I'm going to read are about six pages from a critical theory intervention that comes after an episode that took place. Frank Wilderson: About 19 years ago I was 45 years old or graduate student at UC Berkeley. And in a van to the airport, I was buying an event to the airport from Berkeley. Frank Wilderson: Oakland airport with a Pakistani driver, a into white progressive slash radicals and what the Imbruglia of that right showed me was the way in which Frank Wilderson: The grammar of suffering between the colored immigrants and the white working class person on one side cannot be reconciled with your grammar of suffering of the black Frank Wilderson: Essentially been and so I'm not going to talk about the story itself. Many people have already read the story. Frank Wilderson: But I'm going to go into this part of the book that comes right after the story and then we can talk about Frank Wilderson: people's response to this. Frank Wilderson: Is absolutely necessary for blacks to be castrated rate generously mutilated and violated beaten, shot and made it isn't it is necessary for this to take place in the streets, as well as in popular culture as on TV and in the cinema. Frank Wilderson: Blacks can even be genocide, but only up to a point. Frank Wilderson: Because unlike Indians blacks are not in possession of something exterior to themselves that civil society wants. So what society does not want black land as it wants Indian land. Frank Wilderson: That it might distinguish the nation from Turtle Island. It is not what black consent as it wants working class consent that it might distinguish a capitalist economic Frank Wilderson: System from a socialist one that it might extract surplus value and turn that value into profit. Frank Wilderson: What civil society wants and needs from black people is far more essential far more fundamental than land and profits what civil society needs from black people is confirmation of human existence. Frank Wilderson: It would be this misguided even mendacious to said to the people in that van ride to the airport that the Patriot Act, which has just been passed a few months before Frank Wilderson: In October of 2001 would be misguided say that the Patriot Act did not affect black people or to champion any anti immigration sentiment of any sort. Frank Wilderson: But it will be just as misguided and mendacious to suggest that the Patriot Act relative corruption of the integrity of the Bill of Rights. Frank Wilderson: Or the relative rigidity earlier or elasticity of access to and within the institution ality of civil society can help us think through black folks unique grammar of suffering. Frank Wilderson: Put another way, black thought and therefore black liberation is threatened not only by the state, but by the interest in actions of the Loyal Opposition, otherwise known as the progressive and radical left Frank Wilderson: First, there is the terrorism of what Graham she referred to as political society, the police, the army, the prison industrial complex. Frank Wilderson: Second, there is the terror of civil societies hegemonic blocks and it's clusters of a filial formations, like the mainstream media, the university and the mega church. Frank Wilderson: But there's also a third tier of terror, with which black thought must contend, and that is the terror of counter hegemonic in revolutionary thought Frank Wilderson: The logic of white feminism, the logic of working class struggle the logic of multicultural Coalition's the logic of immigrant rights, the unrelenting terror elaborated whenever black people so called allies think out loud. Frank Wilderson: The stakes of this three tiered terror our pie because of their impact upon black people's capacity to capture and be captured by our own imaginations. Frank Wilderson: See these three tiers scaffold. The death of black desire and our capacity to imagine into fantasize while assuming our position is implicated in our capacity to think theoretically to give our political desire objective value. Frank Wilderson: There's something organic to blackness. That makes it essential to the construction of civil society. Frank Wilderson: But there's also something organics of blackness that pretends the destruction of civil society. Frank Wilderson: There's nothing willful or speculative in this statement for one could just as well state to claim the other way around. Frank Wilderson: Which is to say there's something organic to civil society that makes it essential to the destruction of the black body blackness is a position ality of absolute their election abandon it in the face of civil society and therefore cannot be liberated. Frank Wilderson: Cannot be liberated or been made legible through counter hegemonic interventions black suffering is not a. It's not a function of the performances of civil society. Frank Wilderson: But of the existence of civil society for the Pakistani driver in the van. The white professor and his white wife for all three of them, civil society is an ensemble of constraints and opportunities, but for the black civil society is a murderous projection Frank Wilderson: Divided violence of capitalism or any human paradigm of subjection, for that matter, has a pre history. In other words, it takes an ocean of violence to transpose serfs into workers. Frank Wilderson: It takes an ocean of violence over a couple hundred years to discipline them into temporality that are new and more constricting and to have them imagine their lives within New constraints like urbanization, mechanization and certain types of labor practices. Frank Wilderson: But once the system is set up. Frank Wilderson: Certain types of labor practices. Oh, that's my artificial intelligent speaking Frank Wilderson: And Frank Wilderson: Once the system is set up then violence recedes and goes into remission, the violence comes back at times when capitalism needs to regenerate itself. When the workers transgress the rules and push back. That is to say, when they withdraw their consent. Frank Wilderson: But the violence of the slave state cannot be thought of the wave when thinks of the violence of capitalist suppression takes an ocean of violence to produce a slave singular or plural, but that violence never goes into remission. Frank Wilderson: Again, the pre history of violence that establishes slavery is also the concurrent history of slavery. Frank Wilderson: This is a difficult cognitive map for most activists to adjust to because it actually takes the problem outside of politics. Frank Wilderson: Politics is a very rational endeavor, which allows activists to work out models that predict the structural violence of capitalism in its performative manifestations Frank Wilderson: But you cannot create models that predict the structural violence of slavery in its performative manifestations Frank Wilderson: With a Marxist do with slavery is they try to show how the violence of violence is connected to production, and that means they are not really thinking about the violence of slavery comprehensively Frank Wilderson: The violence of social death or slavery is actually sub tended to the production of a psychic health of all those who are not slaves. Frank Wilderson: Something that cannot be literally commodified are weighted on an actual balance sheet that's the, that's the more intangible libidinal aspect of anti black violence. Frank Wilderson: In other words, activists want to make sense of the depth of Sandra Bland bland the murders of Michael Brown and Eric Gardner when Frank Wilderson: What these spectacles require in order to be adequately explained is a theory of nonsense their absence of a tangible or mashing or utility Frank Wilderson: Black people are not murdered for transgressions, such as illegal immigration or workplace agitation, the essential utility of black death is paradoxically, the absence of utility Frank Wilderson: Black Death, now does have a certain utility, but it is not sub tended by the extraction of surplus value, not in any fundamental way. Frank Wilderson: And it is certainly not attended by the usurpation of land black death is intended by the psychic integration of everyone who is not black. Frank Wilderson: Black Death functions as national therapy, even though the rhetoric that explains and limits these deaths expresses this psychic dependence not directly but symptomatic Lee, it is complex, but here's a simple to Frank Wilderson: Blacks are not going to be genocide like Native Americans, we are being genocide, but genocide it and regenerated because the spectacle of black death is essential to the mental health of the world, we cannot be wiped out completely, because our desk must be repeated visually. Frank Wilderson: The bodily mutilation of blackness is necessary so it must be repeated. Frank Wilderson: What we are witnessing on YouTube, Instagram, and the nightly news has murders. Our rituals of healing for civil society. Frank Wilderson: rituals that stabilizing ease the anxiety that other people feel in their daily lives. It's the anxiety that people have walking around. Frank Wilderson: It cannot be stable. It can be stabilized by a lot of different things like marijuana, cocaine alcohol love affairs. Frank Wilderson: But the ultimate stabilization of this anxiety is the spectacle of violence against blacks. I know I am human because I am not black. I know I'm not black. Because when and if I experience the kind of violence blacks experience. There's a reason some contention transgression. Frank Wilderson: This is why online video posts of police murdering black people contribute more to the psychic well being of non black people to their communal pleasures and sense of ontological presence. Frank Wilderson: Then they contribute to deterrence arrest or even to a general sensitivity of black pain and suffering. Frank Wilderson: Afro pessimism helps us understand why the violence that saturates black life is not threatened with elimination, just because it is exposed Frank Wilderson: For this to be the case. The Spectator interlocutor or auditor would have to come to images such as black mutilation with an unconscious that could perceive injury in such images. Frank Wilderson: In other words, the mind would have to see a person with a heritage of rights and claims, whose rights and claims are being violated. Frank Wilderson: This is not the way slaves blacks function in the collective unconscious slaves functions as implements in the collective unconscious. Who ever heard of an insured plow. Frank Wilderson: fo pessimism is premise. Frank Wilderson: On the iconoclastic claim that blackness is coterminous with sweetness. Frank Wilderson: Blackness is social death, which is to say that there was never a prior moment of plenitude never a moment of equilibrium, never a moment of social life. Frank Wilderson: Blackness as a paradigmatic position, rather than as an ensemble of identities, rather than as an ensemble of cultural practices, rather than as Frank Wilderson: Answer political a coach for my blackness, as a parent, I medic position cannot be December created from slavery. The narrative arc of the slave who is black. Unlike the generic slave who may be of any race is not a narrative arc at all. Frank Wilderson: But a flat line as hard 10 spurs has written of historical stillness a flat line that moves from this equilibrium to a moment of narrative fo equilibrium to disequilibrium restored, or we articulated Frank Wilderson: To put it differently. The violence that's that elaborates and saturates black life is totally so much so as to make narrative inaccessible to blacks. Frank Wilderson: That is not simply a problem for black people. It is a problem for the organization of calculus of critical theory and radical politics writ large. Frank Wilderson: Fundamental to the cognitive maps of radical politics is a belief that all sentient beings can be protagonists within a political or personal narrative. Frank Wilderson: That every sentient being arrives with a history this belief is underwritten by another idea that constitutes narrative that all sentient beings can be redeemed. Frank Wilderson: History and redemption, or the weave of narrative as provocative as it may sound history and redemption and therefore narrative itself are inherently anti black Frank Wilderson: Without the presence of a being who is ab initio barred from redemption a being that is generally dishonored natively alienated and open to naked violence. Frank Wilderson: History and narrative with lack their touchstones of cohesion without the black one will not be able to know what a world devoid of redemption looks like. And if one could not conceive of the absence of redemption then redemption would be inconceivable as well. Thank you. Joseph Winters : Thank you so much. Joseph Winters : For those Joseph Winters : You know, for that for that reading Joseph Winters : There's so much in there in that reading in your thought, you know, any reflections. I want to start with a question about economy. Joseph Winters : Which is, it seems to me it was that that wasn't the term that was used. The way that you're thinking about Joseph Winters : A kind of violence that happens right to to blackness. That happens to the subject of the black, which doesn't have an analogy. Right, so Joseph Winters : If there's something about the exploitation. But for instance of, let's say, labor, right, which you which you thought but you certainly think about is something we should think about Joseph Winters : The exploitation of labor. You've said does have something like a kind of concrete and which is something like you know accumulation of profit accumulation of wealth, whereas Joseph Winters : The right and certainly black people are workers, but they kind of violence against blacks quad blackness has something to do with the psychic coherence of the human right. Joseph Winters : So if you could just say, let me just say a little bit more about libidinal economy is connection to political economy right and how you think because Joseph Winters : For me, at least, I think that that is a crucial dimension of one of many crucial dimensions interventions that that Afro pessimism makes to to the conversation to conversations within critical theory. Frank Wilderson: Yes. Well, thank you for that. Frank Wilderson: I mean, I think, you know, if we have a lot of time. What we waited like weeks because it's a question that we're taking that takes weeks, but let's so I can't actually prove the assertions, but I will make the assertions and Frank Wilderson: Then people will then go to the writings of, you know, people that are on campus like you read yourself and Patrice and Jared Sexton, and especially David Marissa for this question and Cydia Hartman's Frank Wilderson: chapter on on rape, in particular in seems the subjection. Um, so let's start from the bat Apple pessimism does not as a critique of Marxism and psychoanalysis. Frank Wilderson: It's an it's an assessment, which is there's not been say these paradigmatic cognitive maps bear no important for black suffering know if what is saying is that these are paradigmatic Frank Wilderson: Instantiate and cognitive maps that explains an aspect of how black people suffer so it's very, very important, but they do not explain the essence of black suffering. Frank Wilderson: So it's so when I talk about these things is not being able to adequately explained like suffering. I'm always using I'm always get this shorthand, that I should always probably use and a shorthand is essential. Frank Wilderson: Because a lot of people think that we're throwing the baby out with the bathwater, and that's not the case. I was very instrumental in revamping the entire curriculum of culture, in theory, so that everyone has to read Frank Wilderson: Dust carpets, how in capitalism in the first quarter, he run a quarter system. And then the next quarter. Everyone has to read the content and marks before you can get to Frank Wilderson: A project of chopping them down into these insane. What's, what's wrong with respect to black suffering, you got to go through that so Frank Wilderson: And I'm deeply invested in that, but what i'm not invested in is a sense that you can explain this is where blackness differs from everyone else. Everyone else as a Frank Wilderson: Paradigm of suffering, whether it's kind of immigrant, whether it's an important subject queer theory. Frank Wilderson: Or working class, there is embedding into rhetorical structure of the ISM Marxism feminism whenever a descriptive gesture, which is how does this body suffer, which is not Frank Wilderson: About what do these bodies, think about their suffering. How does this body stuff. And that's a completely different question. Personally, I'm not Frank Wilderson: As interested in what people who suffer. Think about their suffer in as I'm in the structured or something. Okay then. But then that comes in another aspect. Frank Wilderson: Which is the answer to Lenin's question what a speedy to be done. And that's the prescriptive gesture. Frank Wilderson: And so radical feminism, what has to be done is to destroy Oedipus and remap kinship egalitarian way which is not having a normative Frank Wilderson: In Marxism, what has to be done is to destroy capitalism and remap political economy in in a communist modality. But if you say that the capacity to make Frank Wilderson: A world is more essential than the capacity to make an economic world then you had another plane. Frank Wilderson: And so what we're saying is that the capacity to make world is human capacity and that is in the fifth chapter of Frank Wilderson: Finance black and white mask. He talks, he says this infinite I'm hijacking for non as an apple customers. So, not as a humanist he's rolling over in his grave. Frank Wilderson: Listening to work I have done with his work, okay. That's okay. When I want to read for non I don't go to for non I go to david Marianne, who's a better familiar that from not okay but Frank Wilderson: Be that as it may, Frank Wilderson: You know when I get when I do, I'ma go to heaven itself or not that we helped your ass readership better. Okay. Frank Wilderson: So we'll just leave that aside right now for 19 agreeing with me. Okay, but he makes a statement in which he says to Black has no ontological resistance. Frank Wilderson: In the eyes of the right and that is the germ of alpha pessimism is ontological resistance, which is to say I give you the capacity to name endless Frank Wilderson: Space to name space into place as a white person your capacity is inferior to mind. Frank Wilderson: So if you call this Turtle Island. You call it a millennial and and giving that capacity, I recognize you as a degraded form of human being, you have the capacity. It's just, I had to come along, like the like the US really say to Frank Wilderson: The Palestinians, I had to come along and make the Desert Bloom, I had to give you a better, more exalted form. Frank Wilderson: Of dealing with speciality but I recognize you can do that. It's just that you don't know how to do it like me. Frank Wilderson: I also recognize that you can turn in restoration into the event. Frank Wilderson: The event at the smallest scale right now in California, it says two o'clock. That is not two o'clock anywhere in the world that's Frank Wilderson: That's a human construction agreed upon by ontological resistance which is called consensus building. Okay. There's no such thing as two o'clock justice. There's no such thing as anybody's history that's that's that's part of the Frank Wilderson: Mutual reciprocity and ontological resistance. My point is this, in order to have a community of people, which is not since the Arab slave trade global that says Frank Wilderson: Here are sentient beings who give each other. The capacity for reciprocity at the level of temporality and speciality here we are. Frank Wilderson: There's got to be another ensemble over here of sentient beings who have no access Frank Wilderson: To naming place. Yo, access to transforming time. There's got to be that because it is semiotic Lee impossible to know something organically, a word does not mean a thing, a word only means Frank Wilderson: Something similar and ultimately the value of a word comes from its opposition. So you actually cannot say that a human that human Frank Wilderson: Is a universal category that would make it jello. It would be a big blob, it would be without meaning you have to be able to say what is not human. Frank Wilderson: And that is, and this is another hijacking Orlando Patterson. Right. What I think her lighter because it has done, although he has Frank Wilderson: He hasn't done it with blackness. That way we have he said if you have a society that people know that they have a community only because in the last instance there's a slave in the mind. Frank Wilderson: Or a slave physically around there. Everyone cannot be a human being that is just semiotic Lee impossible. And so Frank Wilderson: And so in order for that construction, I recognize it as a construction. Frank Wilderson: I don't recognize it as being ordained by God. It is a construction. It feels like it's ordained by God because it starts in 625 ad with the Chinese the Gulf Arabs, the Iranians the Rockies. Frank Wilderson: rockin shoes and East Indians vampy on East India and Africa. And then they give that over to the Portuguese we were talking about 1000 years of global community building. Frank Wilderson: For which blackness is essential as the foil and for that to continue. There has to be a constant projection of slave miss from the collective unconscious, there will be no economy. Frank Wilderson: On to the black body and that projection cannot be pure bigotry, it cannot be pure bigotry because black people are bigoted also Frank Wilderson: We're all bigots. Okay. It has to be bigotry links with paradigmatic violence so that you can make it true. Violence is the only thing that matters essentially for thought. And that's the key. Frank Wilderson: There's no such thing as black structural violence. I'm sorry, the Bloods and the Crips are back for the lapd is better. Okay. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Okay um may ask a question. I see from the Q AMP a thread that there are South Africans in in the audience in a very different time zone, even though time is in dispute here. And so I, I have a question about your experience of being in South Africa and the degree to which you feel Anne-Maria Makhulu: Setting aside for a minute, the DP autobiographical nature of this book after pessimism. The degree to which those five years in South Africa. Anne-Maria Makhulu: built some of the building blocks for this theory of effort pessimism and and I'll explain why I'm asking this question. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And it seems to me that the US is very taken with its own exceptionalism. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And South Africa is very taken with its own exceptionalism and something that I've been thinking a good deal about to someone increasingly who straddles both of those geographies. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And most particularly I'm thinking about two sets of almost parallel histories of settler colonialism indigenous genocide chattel slavery in both places. And then efforts at reconciling a President that has to address that that history. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Of course, the one distinction is that South Africa is a country with a black majority and yet. Anne-Maria Makhulu: The, the contours of this concept of Africa pessimism that you described equally applicable in the South African context. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Shockingly, so. And so my question to you is, if you could explore a little bit what what inspires you about your South African experience that contributes to the way that you think about Africa pessimism. Frank Wilderson: Well, thank you very much for that question. Um, there, there are two moments in my life, which, which I think are so phenomenal and really life changing. What is, what is this moment from age of 12 in 1968 to the age of about 15 Frank Wilderson: And and mainly I spent traveling with my parents, my mother's we're kind of her PhD and my dad was three sabbaticals and I saw the the world in revolt. Frank Wilderson: In the United States, which I did not see in Minneapolis. I thought that I was suffering in this isolated helpful of a rich white neighborhood. Frank Wilderson: And that I had no right to feel the kind of rage that I that I've felt, number one. Number two, I felt like any Frank Wilderson: Middle class black Negro that something I should be doing better and I did not have an analysis. Frank Wilderson: And I, and I only knew as I wrote the book that I was energized by destruction very energized by burning cities burning by looting. I didn't have anything to connect that energy true Frank Wilderson: And coming to Detroit Chicago Seattle Berkeley California from 68 through the end of 1970 I met people Frank Wilderson: Who are in college were taking it upon themselves to train kids between the ages of 12 and 18 years old actively train them as anti imperialist revolutionaries to make us read books above our reading level. Frank Wilderson: And so that then sent me back to Minneapolis with the will to never compromise and externalize my rage, rather than internalizing it, you know, South Africa did pretty much the same thing. Frank Wilderson: I had, I had never been in a long time, like South Africa 89 I spend two months. There I go back in 91 spent two months there at the end of 91 I moved there for Frank Wilderson: For over five years and in this period. What I so the first first probably answer your question is ready gave me was energy and aspects. Okay. In other words, I Frank Wilderson: I think that South Africa and and and the period in the 60s and 70s gave me the stomach and the feel to stop voting for example to never be Frank Wilderson: alive to the euphoria of the moment in November. Every four years to stay the course and condemn America and never actually Frank Wilderson: Entertaining any conversation about it's possible redemption even, you know, and so, so I kind of, I kind of wait for black people sometimes because because I had to do this. I had to do one of these things right. The night before Obama was elected and all black place and Frank Wilderson: So it gave me that also the seriousness of people talking about destroying the state. Frank Wilderson: And D linking from global political economy. This is before Mandela gets out of prison. Okay, we're writing position papers, which I hope some archivist has Frank Wilderson: has kept in shell house you know about how to Frank Wilderson: Take the entire front will may states and figure out what resources you have in Mozambique and what do you haven't symbolically Frank Wilderson: What resources we have in South Africa, instead of a southern African barter system and give the middle finger to the World Bank and the IMF and default on the apartheid loans. Frank Wilderson: And capture the central bank and and you know, put the apartheid generals up against the wall and and execute them all. You know, this was the. This was the energy Frank Wilderson: This was the talk that I had never been part of, you know, then at the end, when the, when the compliment when when when the Frank Wilderson: Where I will call internal forces help the Conservative Party and Western money assassinate Chris honey. Frank Wilderson: When when Mandela marginalizes demonizes ready Mandela and we see the great courage. The Great Purge begins at about 93 after the death of Chris 90 Frank Wilderson: And 100,000 people leave for disinfectants or actively are purged sort of rules of card carrying members custom 350,000 down to 250,000 in that period. Frank Wilderson: What I began to see was at my level. So I'm a, I'm a political apparatchik have what's called sub regional level, I, I'm elected to the sub Regional Medical Center. Frank Wilderson: For the 16 concerts in Johannesburg in Johannesburg sensual and there's the regional level, which is a province. And then there's the national level assigned to low the regional level. Frank Wilderson: And above the branch level in terms of my elected position at that moment, I began to see people like myself at be sub regional levels, having conversations with people that we were in Frank Wilderson: violent conflict with I must admit, people in the PAC people in a Zappa, and we begin talking about the sellout of our respective parties. We began talking about how Frank Wilderson: Even if capitalism is destroyed, which our leaders don't want right there will still be anti blackness. Frank Wilderson: And so I that was that was really as I, as I said in one interview. My first wife was South African says to me, why has the RAND plummeted, all of a sudden Frank Wilderson: After four votes, right, the non the non racial votes. When the country's economic fundamentals have not changed. And it's like, Okay, now I'm a dedicated Marxist at that moment. Frank Wilderson: I'm doing political education for the Communist Party and for the underground says I'm working with him for workers library. And I don't want to hear about black Frank Wilderson: You know, so I'm trying to argue with her, but it is disturbing. Frank Wilderson: Because what it shows me is that the world now has changed and it sees a Black Country. It doesn't see a white country, and this is why I was saying to to Joseph Frank Wilderson: The line between local economy and literally economy is a false is a mythological division line. So then I so i think that that was important and going back to your earlier statement in right here. Frank Wilderson: There were a secret caches of weapons that I saw secreted away, but they're also caches of books which could get you 18 months in prison if you own these books. Frank Wilderson: And these books over 70% of these books were from black America. Here is the works of the Panthers. Frank Wilderson: The end. The Black America has the works of phenomenon that works. Evan Angela Davis a Scottish record later on. And so Frank Wilderson: What this just goes back to your opening statement with there was this kind of cross pollen ization pollination, which actually goes back to the NAACP and the creation Frank Wilderson: Of the ANC, a long time ago. And so those are those are the things I think what South Africa differently. Most of all, was to steal my reserve. Frank Wilderson: My resolve rather to steal my resolve so that I never came back to this country trying to be a citizen and always in it and against it. And that was very harmful. Joseph Winters : I think I'll ask we maybe one or two more questions and then we'll go to the questions from the front. From the, from the audience. Thank you so much for that. I have a question. Joseph Winters : Will have several questions I want to kind of change it maybe to thinking about the genre right thinking about the genre of Afro pessimism. Joseph Winters : So what this maybe two questions in one but I'm thinking about Joseph Winters : Is obviously a legacy within kind of writings literary productions and you know black authors like a two boys are you, Lord, that were multi genre. Joseph Winters : Now I just want to take seriously Afro pessimism as as memoir autobiography essay theory. I mean, is there some some way, which I guess first question is, Joseph Winters : I mean, does that multi genre to work. I mean, is that like is that is that an important kind of maybe ethical right political kind of strategy. Joseph Winters : I guess the second question is, you talk about Afro pessimism as as the meta theory. In the new book right and you suggest that right. It's not, it's looking at the assumption of logics of critical theory. Joseph Winters : Psychoanalysis Marxism and so forth, right, and. But what's so interesting to me as an even though you're saying that it's operating on that kind of abstract structural level. Joseph Winters : You have to, you know, to, you know, fascinating books and your and your VA right that deeply about right about the right person. A person right there about interpersonal relationships auto biography Joseph Winters : The authority of the eye in a certain way. So I'm just something about that relationship between the meta and just Joseph Winters : Maybe just lived experience which I KNOW. I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S THE I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'D LIKE THAT, SIR. But it does seem to me that lived experience and not only Joseph Winters : You know, just like as examples, but to get us to see just the mundane this, I guess. Joseph Winters : And the kind of the way of the mundane is of anti blackness anti black violence, but also the ways in which right in those mundane spaces, a certain kind of hostility. Right. I kind of have these kind of, you know, effective regimes right get directed towards black bodies. But anyway, yeah. Frank Wilderson: Cuz, cuz I bear which and and and you know me, I can just go here, here, so just drive me to one to one aspect of this Joseph Winters : So the main thing is I guess the one thing is I'm Joseph Winters : Thinking about. I mean, I guess I'll just ask one like what is, what is it, what is it about memoir. Right. What is it about autobiography, right. Joseph Winters : Jimmy right so beautifully in that form. And I'm wondering, what are the tensions maybe between or, you know, not not not contradictions, but what are the tensions maybe between that Joseph Winters : And kind of thinking about Apple pessimism at a meta level and that kind of concerns that right Joseph Winters : Black people don't like black people don't have access to something like subjectivity. Right. And it seems to me that I mean, traditionally, right, I mean, there's a way in which autobiography right has been very much an expression of a certain kind of authorial is a Joseph Winters : Big guy right but I hope that makes sense. Anne-Maria Makhulu: In here for a minute. Can I ask a second part to piggyback and then we'll be done with our questions, which is, I wonder if one can flip the question on its head and say, well, you know, enlightenment theory or let me call it boldly white theory. Anne-Maria Makhulu: always starts with lived experience. Anne-Maria Makhulu: But just doesn't acknowledge that that's the case. But there is a kind of house a hierarchy of value in increasing the abstracting from lived experience out into message theory or or concept and that really Anne-Maria Makhulu: Theory. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Is very often hiding behind the fact of something that is very particular very specific but doesn't perform itself and such. Frank Wilderson: Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. Both of you that's that's precisely. You know what, when I when I write my second book I'm talking to do Frank Wilderson: 203 been published said I must, I must say, though, I must say incognito to black women at South and press Save that book from the dustbin of history and Frank Wilderson: Jocelyn perella Asha tall. So, and then later Duke picked it up so yeah I that point that that Frank Wilderson: In the bush one memoir theory is hiding and doesn't announced itself. That's very that's very key to to if I hear you correctly. It is, yeah. Frank Wilderson: And and what I so I have to do several things like like in the second book that to publish red, white and black cinema instruction views antagonisms Frank Wilderson: I'm trying to speak and an analytic voice and make an argument about political economy liberal economy structural violence and film. Frank Wilderson: But I'm also in these other two books in terms of this is is getting to to your part of the question. Um, I have to admit that I am seduced by the pleasures of narrative. Frank Wilderson: Just like I'm seduced by Hollywood movies, that's, you know, and my end. So I'm not by being an afro pessimists i'm not i haven't maturity emotionally Frank Wilderson: My god, I'm just a bundle of failures, I'd be to be if you had a teenage son, he'd be you know in you wanted a male figure. You have to look somewhere else. I'm just Prozac and depression. That's all that's Frank Wilderson: That's the sum total of my existence. Okay. I mean, so what what I'm trying to do is to have this attempt at Frank Wilderson: Psychic integration through writing and then show how that's impossible because there's no Daniel ma to a black story. And so that's that's it's but it's not trying to get above it. Frank Wilderson: And to be superior to a narrative that will not let me in. It's this constantly trying to inhabit it and then finding out. Oh my god, what we need to be a subject or narrative. Frank Wilderson: Is Frank Wilderson: An element of loss. Frank Wilderson: plenitude and then loss and blackness does not provide loss, unless you think of it as a cultural identity. This is the intervention. What I'm trying to say is that Frank Wilderson: And this is this workout on the app slave trade in East Africa has worked. I've learned from graduate students since I wrote my book. You know, it's worth I've learned. I've learned from people like very suppository Frank Wilderson: In Korea, who, you know, and send them out to referee, who's from Ethiopia is that Frank Wilderson: What's interesting about 625 at through the 1400s. Is that vamping on black bodies by the Arab world was not for the economic industrialization, primarily. But what it did is it helps to construct Frank Wilderson: A female identity, what it means to be an Arab in contra distinction to what it means to be black. And that's really, that's really important to me. So what I think of is is is I have to in writing a type of memoir and, uh, and what Frank Wilderson: Wishes incognito. And then writing this book after pessimism, which is auto auto theory. The I voice wants something presence holiness psychic integrity. Frank Wilderson: Reciprocity recognition and incorporation, and then it's like the whole book is about that moment on the train with phenomenon and you find look a negro. Frank Wilderson: And you're divided into three. That's what I what I dwell on is the failure of a desire to become human and not a failure that is vested in black psyches and black bodies, it's a it's a foreclosure because our foreclosure from that is actually is actually necessary. So I think that Frank Wilderson: I would be remiss if I said because narrative requires a subject who once had plenitude Frank Wilderson: And then has lost and then can be redeemed. Frank Wilderson: And because that narrative arc is not available to the black. I am going to castigate myself for being seduced by it and have nothing to do with it. My goodness, I'm still paying off $80,000 to Columbia for a master's in fine arts in bourgeois fiction writing Frank Wilderson: What a waste of money. Frank Wilderson: All my all my cultural manifestations come from the 1950s. So I think I have to, I have to recognize, you know, this desire and then work through its and possibility and shortcut on the page. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Well, if I may say that MFA is absolutely not wasted because there are so many moments in Africa pessimism that all frankly deeply visual Anne-Maria Makhulu: And enable the reader to see literally see things that they themselves may not have experienced for a variety of reasons, including generational you know Anne-Maria Makhulu: Differences. So not so fast. I'm a lot of questions from the audience. So I need to take a stab at curating the first one. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Which is. And there are a number, a bit like this one, but this question goes as follows. Um, what would your response be to the critique. There's an Africa pessimistic view centers, the white defines the white world as the world. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And yes, that whites wield violence to create and maintain their power and their world, but perhaps that's not the only world. Frank Wilderson: Yes. Frank Wilderson: That's it, yeah. I get that all the time. Um, Frank Wilderson: I think it's I think it's even worse than that. I think what what Afro pessimism does is it says that to be to be human, which is which is different than white. In other words, all colored Frank Wilderson: Immigrants as well as white people are get fair presence through the distinction between themselves and and blacks and that that needs to be Frank Wilderson: ritually reenacted through through through violence, I, you know, Frank Wilderson: I think you were asked a question earlier, in which I don't remember when I was seeing that there are many different paradigms of repression, you know, and after pessimism doesn't say these other paradigms of repression don't exist. Frank Wilderson: But what but what i would i would i would struggle with the questioner a little bit Frank Wilderson: If we were in class together because I simply do not believe that the little bit no economy, the collective unconscious of anti blackness is out there and not Frank Wilderson: Something that constitutes the unconscious of black people also and i and i and i refer to the works of David Marriott in, especially in a haunted life. Frank Wilderson: But also in on black man, where he writes about photography and lynching. And then France finance war and one of the most important things that that he that he questions. Frank Wilderson: Is can we actually say that the black unconscious is an unconscious. If it is impossible for the unconscious mind. This is very different than the pre conscious unconscious mind the unconscious mind to aspire to a black ideal. Frank Wilderson: So in other words, the argument is that I look in the mirror and my conscious mind says I'm Black and I'm Proud, I got it going on but my unconscious mind is saying, You are a stimulus to anxiety, you give yourself anxiety others get anxiety from you. Frank Wilderson: You not your words, not your ideas like the Jews are not black feminists are kohut immigrants, not your ideas, not your agenda, your flesh stimulates anxiety. Frank Wilderson: And it doesn't stimulate anxiety for others alone. It simply sends it for you. And that's what the whole opening chapter of my book is about. Frank Wilderson: My talk about 20 years ago being 44 years old, having a psychotic episode. My fundamental concern in the psych ward at UC Berkeley be how can I get better. Frank Wilderson: But because I'm catatonic I'm crying and moaning and this big 215 black mass of matted hair and red eyes. Frank Wilderson: And all I care about essentially not totally but all I care about essentially is the fact that I'm scaring the hell out of this white doctor in this white nurse and so I would challenge someone to explain to me how Frank Wilderson: Something other than the anti black gays how the other but gays does not cut through one's own internal psyche Frank Wilderson: I would actually say that that has to be proven to me. I don't believe that that's the case. I believe I do believe we can get over it, but I believe that Frank Wilderson: You cannot actually write a sentence about what the other side looks like or know exactly how that will happen because the kind of violence needed to end anti blackness will end the epistemological formation of the world. Joseph Winters : One of the, one of the things that I've been very fascinated with is your, is your account lifelong work as a as an activist. So one of the questions. Some of the questions you have to do with Joseph Winters : The pragmatics of of Afro pessimism. I know you've talked about the kind of Anglo American pragmatism, but you know there's a set set of questions here around Joseph Winters : You know issue solutions. Joseph Winters : pragmatics. And also, what do you. Someone asked, what do you say to those who say half of pessimism interferes with or undermines the possibility of coalition of coalition politics. Frank Wilderson: I would say anything to them. Frank Wilderson: That matter person they got to talk to me. I'm black, have Frank Wilderson: No money, nothing. Frank Wilderson: Is the coalition that owes us an explanation as to why it cannot shift away from tangible goals. Frank Wilderson: Like immigrant rights into the, the demand that blackness embodies which is the end of the world. I don't have to explain to the coalition of goddamn thing. Frank Wilderson: Coalition was the black everything and and and it would seem to me that black people. Frank Wilderson: Are so generous. We were generous in this election. We've been we were generous in there's this the end of this, this thing called a boon to on Frank Wilderson: Which is a banter phrase meaning goodwill or brotherly and sisterly love you know this this boon to that saturates the diaspora is something that the coalition takes advantage of we enter into the coalition Frank Wilderson: In political movements that will liberate Frank Wilderson: Us in part and other words, a movement that could in capital would liberate part of our suffering, it would eliminate all the working class softening, you know, Frank Wilderson: Getting the Indians their land back in the past needs that we entered into all these things which are partially liberating for us. Frank Wilderson: And totally the brain for other people, and they have the nerve to ask us to attend to their cognitive map know their job is to change their cognitive map. Frank Wilderson: Come over to blackness and deal with a total realizing I kind of classic movement. What was the other thing about politics. I don't remember. Joseph Winters : Me that was so other other questions were around Joseph Winters : You know, around the, kind of, you know, other Joseph Winters : Pessimistic inches or is your version of pessimism interested in, let's say something like practical solutions, something that was one, but I'm thinking about that in light of some of the things that you've said recently about what you call an Anglo American kind of pragmatism. Joseph Winters : Oh, you know, but but it's not as if like you're not. So I want to think about that. But I also want to think seriously about the ways in which you you know you've talked about the importance of activism as well to me around black lives matter. So anyway, yeah. Frank Wilderson: Yeah, I mean, look, I am Frank Wilderson: I believe to be human isn't is to be is to occupy an ethical place. Frank Wilderson: Because you cannot be human, without, without the technologies are anti blackness regenerating what the constituent elements of humaneness are Frank Wilderson: But I also believe that Frank Wilderson: That black people are sentient beings, even though we don't have access to the world. Frank Wilderson: And as sentient beings we rethink react we and we suffer on multiple planes. And so I've always been involved in the alleviation of suffering. Frank Wilderson: Multiple events. I've even I'm even dedicated to engaging black people whose tactical response to our suffering is not mine. I get 12 years ago almost to the day I gave Frank Wilderson: The book to her for incognito. And it was the night before Obama was to to get elected. And I was in a room at 80 people 78 or who were black. Frank Wilderson: In the black neighborhood in Brooklyn at Medgar Evers College. Everyone had an Obama button on Frank Wilderson: They said we're going to vote for. And I said, the last milk toast negro, I voted for it was Nelson Mandela and I will not make that mistake again. You know, I do not vote. I'm not Frank Wilderson: I'm not against Obama I'm against the president. I'm against for country and and I said, so let's talk black to black. Frank Wilderson: How many people raise your hand would be so excited that we cross the river over Manhattan and have a ticker tape parade for the first black person to drop an atomic bomb on a city, raise your hand. Frank Wilderson: Nobody raised their hand. I said, Okay, well then that's what an American president is an assassin, the head of murder incorporated okay and so Frank Wilderson: That's number one. Number two figures like Mandela and Obama, because I was there to read from my book and then they do a comparison of man john Obama and they thought was going to celebrate both of them. Frank Wilderson: To support. Frank Wilderson: These, you know, back in the day. These two Moto moto sneakers wouldn't make it to the front stage. It's the fact that contact bro killed everybody Frank Wilderson: Is the fact that Chris honey was assassinated. The fact that winning meadow is marginalized, the fact that there that there are a purchase that I saw in the NC that you would not believe this is how these Frank Wilderson: reach across the aisle Negros rise up to power. Okay, through the murder of the people who speak with and for us. That's number one. And so I said, number two, um, Frank Wilderson: So let's let's let's talk about this, you know, and we had a wonderful conversation. I said, I am here in food. I'm so happy. Whenever black people have joy I was I caught my dad votes, he's a democrat I called him to celebrate his joy, not to celebrate goddamn Frank Wilderson: The neoliberal corpse and and comma Harris, you know, know to celebrate Black and short because black people have so little choice but I'm also against the country because their country is organically against us. Frank Wilderson: And I had the most wonderful conversation. The night before Amanda Obama was elected with this entire black Frank Wilderson: Community, where we all seem to recognize what I was saying, even though people are going to vote. The next thing I'm going to try to take change people's mind. They weren't trying to change. Change mine so so I'm always in the space. Frank Wilderson: Where black reform is happening because if in that space there are not other kinds of colored people and they're not white people. Frank Wilderson: Than what I have found in the space of black reform, like the night at Medgar Evers or in Black Lives Matter workshops, is that people are doing on the ground reforms. Frank Wilderson: And we're having enter inviting me into talk about Afro pessimism, which Frank Wilderson: doesn't click with reform because we recognize that we suffering, we're here to talk about black suffering, even though we, you know, I would never say go to Harlem and organize everybody for the final objective of the end of the world. Give me a break. Frank Wilderson: No, that's ridiculous. But what I do love about black space which is not contaminated by other perspectives, is the fact that we can all talk about these things. Frank Wilderson: Without having to worry about the right case, the very next night after Medgar Evers I was so alive to the beauty of that conversation because what happened after that I did a book signing. Frank Wilderson: And I was 52 years old 2008 32 years old and this woman comes up to me. She says, I want you to sign my book. She's in her late 60s, and she says, but before I do, I wanted to Frank Wilderson: I want to hear. I want to tell you, I want you, I want to ask you something about that. I want to say something about that, not voting thing that you just said I thought to myself, oh my god. Frank Wilderson: Here it comes, you know, and so my whole my Louisiana matters came back to me or. Yes, ma'am. No, ma'am, you know, Frank Wilderson: And she looked around and she put the book down. She goes, I'm a nurse at the hospital in Manhattan across the river and I hate this country. Frank Wilderson: And I hate it. I hate everything about it and I'm so happy you sit there and I wish I could go. I'm gonna go to hospitals and Martin is tell those white Puma and and and in France. And no, no way. Frank Wilderson: I would advise you not to go to the hospital and sorry it's far away, folks. Right. Frank Wilderson: Because I'm 52 years old. I've only had a tenure track job for two years. That's how that's the kind of shut my mouth has gotten my ass into Frank Wilderson: And I got an academic freedom clause in my contract. So I can say whatever the hell I want to Frank Wilderson: You don't have that they will fry you and send you to the Bronx, you know, so, um, black speech is always incarcerated talking. It's always speech in there coercing coercion, there's no such thing as a free black voice, and I was just Frank Wilderson: I was just so grateful that that with this black room. We could live with a contradiction is one with an Obama button on Frank Wilderson: Leaning over whispering how much she, in her late 60s, how much she hates this country and how much how futile. She thinks voting is Frank Wilderson: And how we never get anything back when we give everything every four years and and that's what I care about. I don't need her to go and burn down the hospital tomorrow, this will happen gradually Anne-Maria Makhulu: Okay, so Anne-Maria Makhulu: We have a question. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Which I think is if I'm reading it correctly, I think, is about certain forms of Anne-Maria Makhulu: Blocks social depth vision may be delayed. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And so the question here is about could you elaborate on questions of black social death. The should possibly self generated or intercommunal Anne-Maria Makhulu: And the examples that are offered in the case of Margaret Ghana, or the master side at a blending of music exceptional instances to or embodiments of Afro pessimism. Frank Wilderson: It's a good question. I don't have an answer for it. I don't I don't I it's really, it's really beyond my thinking mode right now. I think it's very fascinating. Frank Wilderson: But I'd stumbled bumble for about 15 minutes, maybe the person can write me an email and we'll try to it, but I'd like to hear you and Joseph answer if you have any. I Frank Wilderson: Don't want to be Anne-Maria Makhulu: I don't think I have any answers, although I have recently been reading Kristin Smith us at UT Austin who writes specifically about forms of delayed death. Anne-Maria Makhulu: So, as in the case of Eric Garner's mother, particularly women who may not themselves be directly the subject of say police brutality, but in confrontation with Anne-Maria Makhulu: Loss and sons, brothers, sisters, whoever Anne-Maria Makhulu: That there is this strange delay between the immediacy of that death, and then there is also death and and Krista. Krista Smith refers to this says secret lie. Anne-Maria Makhulu: A kind of morbidity that sets in over time and and can be seen in many instances, so I don't know if that's the answer to the question, but it's a really it's a it's a fascinating way of thinking about it anyway. Frank Wilderson: Thank you very much. I really didn't quite grasp the question and you helped me there. And yeah, I like you. I like your answer very much. Yes. Anne-Maria Makhulu: Can I think it's your turn. Joseph Winters : Question. Joseph Winters : About Joseph Winters : Me, you kind of kind of answered this. So if this doesn't generate anything Joseph Winters : Is a question about Joseph Winters : The kind of we've kind of had a question about this last weekend right into kind of the kind of joy around or the relief maybe around Joseph Winters : You know you're voting voting Trump up voting Trump out of office. Joseph Winters : I guess I'm going to combine that certain question is something I've thought about Joseph Winters : You talk about ever pessimism is a kind of ethical right a kind of ethical right at least anything the cinema book. It seems to be Joseph Winters : There's a kind of ethics there and so far as you're thinking about Joseph Winters : The various, various modes of violence that are constituent of civil society. Right. And so I'm wondering, what are the ethics of pessimism, in a moment of right in a moment. You talked about black joy and I'm thinking about right, the ways in which Joseph Winters : The joy of this moment right the energy of this moment in a way that it's always already being corralled to do the work of, like, you know, Joseph Winters : nation state building right us exceptionalism and so forth. And so I'm wondering about the ethics of pessimism right and a moment like this, right, but an ethics of pessimism that may be is is is actually maybe beyond some kind of Joseph Winters : Optimism pessimism Dualism, right. I actually think of this like that the ethics of pessimism at this moment is is actually not only reminder of the break the fact that Joseph Winters : Whereas an office is this kind of structural violence that enables right even the transition Joseph Winters : But also a kind of ethics. That's always like it does seem to me as always animated by the desire for the possibility of the end of the world is something radically different. Even if you've said in interviews. Joseph Winters : We can't, we can't necessarily name with that radically other world and the other side of things would be Joseph Winters : I don't know if that made any sense but Just Frank Wilderson: Hit me as I feel myself going here. There. So help me like a very straightforward question. Joseph Winters : I guess I'm Joseph Winters : So I'm thinking here about one of the questions I'm also thinking about certain conversations that I've seen on like social media about Joseph Winters : Again about right you know this is a moment of hope. Right. And the energy Joseph Winters : Like this is a moment of hope and energy and you suggest in the reason why I'm maybe I'm just, I'm just repeating a question. Joseph Winters : Or what you said just a few minutes ago. If you're interested in black joy. Right. Unless you are interested in black joy. But I guess I'm wondering about Joseph Winters : The Ethics of pessimism. I think the pessimism had a moment where joy, right, that kind of energy. And the hope is always already being kind of hijacked and corral to do the work of Joseph Winters : Us exceptionalism, to do the work of forgetfulness. And frankly, right, you have to do to to to do the work of kind of furthering right you know imperial modes of being Frank Wilderson: Okay, sir. So I'm not going to address your question, briefly, I probably won't really answer it. But now they understand the contours. So I think, I think the first thing is, you know, this, this book is now. Frank Wilderson: In like Barnes and Nobles in bookstores. Okay. Frank Wilderson: That's nothing that that you know when I when Anna Maria asked me about South Africa. The back in the 90s when Jared Sexton, sorry, hon Kiana Ross is that at Northwestern. And then later on, Patrice Douglas and people were were starting to think about this. Um, this wasn't really Frank Wilderson: About a pessimism that is linked to emotions. It was it was a it was in Gramsci in terms NC as innovators in the popular culture popular really people think of it as a Frank Wilderson: Emotional dispensation. And I would hope that that people would take when they had the word fo pessimism that essentially they would take an emotional pessimism out of that because it's a gram shin pessimism Grampian said I have Frank Wilderson: pessimism of the intellect optimism of the will, sir, what he was saying is, you know, like it is no ton of Italian history where he talks about the formation of Frank Wilderson: The Italian state is very much like a moment now where you have people killing each other. The Action Party and another project for the name of, you know, the Prison Notebooks. And he says, it looks like a civil war. Frank Wilderson: He looks like a blooding klutz that's Frank Wilderson: Manifestation of essentially irreconcilable agendas and he's great. No, no, no. People, people are dying people being shot people killing each other. Frank Wilderson: But there's nothing essential being argued over. It's just two phases of capitalism. The working class is going to be subjected regardless, you know, and so that's what an American Revolution is even Frank Wilderson: An American election is even a moment like this where people are armed with guns. You know, it's the Frank Wilderson: Best it's a it's a passive revolution. And so what he was pessimistic about was the thinking the cognitive maps that went into that blood and guts. Frank Wilderson: The conflict that fluffy Italian state the cognitive map that said, wow. Frank Wilderson: Something essential has changed. And so we're pessimistic about for cognitive maps that say something essential has changed or something essential can change and the cognitive map that of Marxism that says when you get rid of capitalism. Frank Wilderson: You'll, the world will be free. Know your social death right. I've been to Cuba, which I love. Frank Wilderson: The color of Cuban identity is anti blackness. Frank Wilderson: I went to the Soviet Union in 1973 because their friends and all the people I loved all around the world. And I was just a Soviet upper ratchet at the age of 17 and Frank Wilderson: And I was just shattered by the anti blackness that I saw in Moscow, you know, it's a necessary element to the epistemological formation of the day. Frank Wilderson: And so we're pessimistic about the cognitive maps of liberation that come out of that. It's not an emotion. So, the job of the joy, the joy that I would celebrate Frank Wilderson: You know, I would celebrate the joy, like my father's joy of because I wanted to 89 year old man whose father was in, you know, Frank senior was in Louisiana. Frank Wilderson: Who thought if I go up against the clan what he did in the 1940s and form the NAACP and he was attacked and all this other stuff. Frank Wilderson: And if I formed this organization and risk my life, something will change. And then my father. I think if I do this thing at the universities. Frank Wilderson: And make them open to black people and have all this affirmative action is training, something will change. I just I just Frank Wilderson: I the people in North Carolina in 1789 who thought we are workers hyper exploited workers and all of a sudden Frank Wilderson: 1800 to 1835 come up and they rip a million black people from the ages of 15 to 25 from the eastern seaboard and send them in coffee and intensify their suffering, you know, Frank Wilderson: All the time, generation after generation we keep hoping something will change the hook arc star to something I just made it my dad to die with that illusion. Okay. Because he deserves it. Frank Wilderson: I don't want to browbeat him with Afro pessimism, either. I just, I'm just, I'm happy that that he can see what God DAMN YOU KNOW IF I DIE, YOU KNOW BEFORE MY 19th birthday at release, you know, Frank Wilderson: Trump won't be an office now to me. That doesn't make any essential difference it makes important differences like for the climate for coven, you know, important differences. It doesn't make any essential difference, and I'm a revolutionary my dad. Frank Wilderson: Is not okay, I want that joy I want him to be happy. Just like, just like in Minneapolis. The people 20 blocks from him who burned down the police station. I want that joy. Also, okay. Frank Wilderson: No form of anger management. That's what I feel pessimism releases. Anne-Maria Makhulu: So this is an interesting one. And in a way, I think it answers a question that I've had for a while. So I'm you know in Angela Davis is freedom as a constant struggle. She's doing this thing that I call trying to world. The struggle right by connecting Ferguson Palestine, etc, etc. Anne-Maria Makhulu: So the question here is about Anne-Maria Makhulu: This Palestinian insurgent at the beginning of the book. Anne-Maria Makhulu: You know, why is there insurgency always already grounded in anti blackness. I think that that's the question and and then the it goes on. Anne-Maria Makhulu: The question goes on to, to ask the following, which is you know about the condition of a an anti colonial struggle, which is essentially that Palestinian struggle. And so, you know, I think that the person posing this question is asking is Palestinian insurgency ultimately Anne-Maria Makhulu: Really well. Not exactly a bankrupt project, but something that has to reject the appeal to the human Anne-Maria Makhulu: And, and, of course, as you said, right at the beginning of your reading right there is this this problem that Anne-Maria Makhulu: Poor black people were black subjects. Anne-Maria Makhulu: There is a nothingness. And so you can't really make claims about sovereignty, which is what Palestinians are doing. It's also, in a sense, right, what Anne-Maria Makhulu: African liberation fighters and places, perhaps outside of the South African struggle may have imagined that they were doing in the attempt at liberation and independence. In any case, the question here is about the the status of the Palestinian insurgent Frank Wilderson: Well, what I do in my work is if I find the most sacred left lane clauses and I pick my Frank Wilderson: Kids, I'm having fun today. Frank Wilderson: Because I want to shit on the inspiration of these kind of sacred notions of Frank Wilderson: You know, I mean I've struggled for a Palestinian independence for, you know, since the 80s and I'm I'm I'm as rapidly as really as I am rabbit very anti American Frank Wilderson: That does not believe that doesn't. That doesn't mean that I believe that a Palestinian State. Frank Wilderson: Will somehow be free or anti blackness. Because the point of the example in the beginning of the book. Frank Wilderson: Is that anti blackness constitutes the constituent elements of what it means to be alive, not what it means to be alive and Palestinian will be alive in Israeli to be alive. And so I and and that that is Frank Wilderson: So, so what I'm so the person who asked the question, if we were in class that person would actually have to prove to me that anti blackness does not constitute Palestinian being before. I'm not going to be put back on my heels. Frank Wilderson: approving of embedding does because I've already. I've already said that there are, you know, Frank Wilderson: Going from the first part of that level Patterson's slavery and social death, he talks about different paradigms of subjugation. He says you need an ocean or violence to set up a paradigm of subjugation. Frank Wilderson: But once the paradigm is set up. Then what takes over from the gratuitous nature of the violence that set it up is a thing called a Gemini. Frank Wilderson: And Gemini. We know this from 1997 in seems this objection with respect to consent in the rate trials had Gemini is not Frank Wilderson: A modality of black subjugation. There's no such thing as a black idea. That doesn't mean black people don't have ideas. What it means is that the world cannot hear a black agenda. Frank Wilderson: And so I saw that, I would say to say structurally, you would have to show the person would have to show me. Frank Wilderson: How the Palestinian the economy is constituted at a schematic in a schematic way that is different than Israeli Frank Wilderson: Little bit more economy. I don't think that can happen, primarily because as I said at the beginning, the Arab started this Frank Wilderson: Okay, and the Palestinians are so anti blackness is is has its germ not right. I thought it was the Atlantic slave trade, but in the Arab same shape. The next thing I would do it right here is anecdotally just anecdotally Frank Wilderson: You know when I did a workshop for Black Lives Matter 35 Frank Wilderson: After this, and black lives matter at Frank Wilderson: All Audubon. What was the Audubon ballroom on 16th Street and Broadway where Malcolm X was assassinated and that is now Chavez foundation. I heard stories about Frank Wilderson: Black Lives Matter activists who were alive to the reading of internationalism that you cite it from Angela Davis very much alive to that and they went to Palestine. Frank Wilderson: On the solitary and they said, hey, while we're here before they went over here, we want to meet the bypass this was a black people in the Gaza Strip. Frank Wilderson: Black people in Ramallah okay and the West Bank and people. Yeah. OK. OK. And they got there five days go by seven days, and they're not, they're being steered away. Frank Wilderson: From meeting black Palestinians, which was the promise and when they do meet them. What do they get symptomatic Lee, they get the embodied complaint of black past in in existence that you find in videos are black people in Basra. Frank Wilderson: That you find when talking. Why do workshops, a black people in Vienna that you find a black people in Venezuela that we exist under the boot of Israeli occupation and under the boot a Palestinian anti blackness. Frank Wilderson: And that's why nobody wanted them to talk. Okay, so I don't have to prove that the person who thinks there's something so sacred about the Palestinian struggle that it is Frank Wilderson: absolved from anti blackness that person has to prove that to me. Joseph Winters : Do we have time for one more question. Frank Wilderson: I'll stay as long as you want. Joseph Winters : I think we have to go at six, I'll, I'll see if I see something from from Sarah. Anne-Maria Makhulu: I think they can do one very, very briefly. Joseph Winters : Oh, okay. Well this one I was thinking about, do you have one, the one I'm thinking about, it's probably sound of this is a brief one. Joseph Winters : But I'll put up, put it out there. So what what one one concern that I'm seeing here in the chat. Joseph Winters : Enough seen before is that is that. So here I'll just read it half of pessimism being a meta theory generated through experience of right the blackmail slate right so concerns about right. Joseph Winters : Now gender difference you know concerns about centralizing blackness. Joseph Winters : I know and other other conversations have been part of like where does the intersection ality go with without with our pessimism. Right. Joseph Winters : I know this is a lot for five minutes. But it was it was a question that was kind of, you know, maybe we could start to think through some of some of the some of some of those some of those concerns that I know that you've thought about and I think I'll be quiet. Frank Wilderson: Well, Frank Wilderson: Yeah, yeah. I think that, well, first of all, I don't think Apple pessimism is a discovery like equals MC squared. I think it is a big year trumpet. Frank Wilderson: That listens to this symptoms of black people to come up with a scaffolding or cognitive map of suffering. Okay. It doesn't say that the experience of suffering. Frank Wilderson: Quad blackness is going to be the same, whether you're transgender male, female straight or gay but it says the command modality is the same, just like you know no no good Marxists would say Frank Wilderson: Well, you know, there are people in sweatshops who who are women who work on the other side of the Rio Grande, they can't use the toilet. They have no maternity leave. They can't have administration. Frank Wilderson: Supplies there harass sexually either employers, they die on the job. Okay. And then there's a professor in Stockholm was a social safety net makes a whole lot more money were shorter hours and not under draconian conditions. Frank Wilderson: An Anglo American Marxist would say there's an essential difference, gender, nationality, race between these two these two people. Frank Wilderson: And there are important differences that need to be addressed. But if you are a theoretical Frank Wilderson: Cognitive mapping Marxist, you're going to realize that the extraction of surplus value and the intensification of work is the same scaffolding of oppression. Frank Wilderson: For the sweatshop woman. As for the white Scandinavian man. And so that's the level of abstraction that after pessimism makes it's a claims that but in Frank Wilderson: In demonstrating these claims the, the, the, the work is all over the board. You know, I think that, you know, I think uniquely African students work vaccines this objection concentrates on Frank Wilderson: Black women, but when she makes the intervention that says consent is a modality that cannot Frank Wilderson: Translate legibly to the court, she's talking about within the economy. And that is true of all black people. Frank Wilderson: And Patrice Douglas works on different genders, you know her. Her work is is gender eyes, but it's also Frank Wilderson: Making it not trying to make an intervention on the specificity of women's suffering as being essentially different you know so i i think it's a miss. Reading Frank Wilderson: And I think that the game fo pessimism, the intervention that it helps us make is not intervention of how do you live your life. How do you get over this. Frank Wilderson: How do you relate to each other as black people, although it can help you with those things. But that's not the game the destination is to develop a language of what it means to suffer. Frank Wilderson: And not what it means to be alleviated from suffering because that is going to come from black people industries and not from professors Anne-Maria Makhulu: I think that we are out of time and Anne-Maria Makhulu: Just, just so you know, Frank. There are at least 75 other questions in the Q and A's for edge. Anne-Maria Makhulu: I believe that Sarah Rogers is going to send these on to you. So at least you can see them. Anne-Maria Makhulu: But clearly you stimulated an enormous amount of discussion. Yes, I'm getting a correct, that's correct. An enormous amount of discussion and I think Anne-Maria Makhulu: Stimulation and tremendous interest in your work and we're just so very, very grateful that you could be with us. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And grateful to African African American Studies and grateful to the Franklin humanities Institute for supporting this event. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And I think I can say on behalf of Jay and myself that we really hope that when this pandemic is over, you can actually come and visit us again as you did in 2015 so we're going to make a date. Anne-Maria Makhulu: And the and say thank you so much for attending. We really, really appreciate it. Frank Wilderson: And you're in a shout out to her Tommy to France and Patrice Douglas Indeed, Frank Wilderson: Thank you. Goodbye. Have a nice evening. 