 Hello, and welcome to the Deutsches Museum for the second part of the interview with Prof. Dr. Trischler about the Deutsches Museum as a research institution. In the first interview we talked about the background to the research museum and also the national and international links. Now, we will go into more detail about what current research topics are discussed, the research programme and the main areas of research. Mr. Trischler, there is an extensive research programme at the Deutsches Museum. Into which areas is this programme divided? We are talking about a five-part approach that we are pursuing here, starting with the research infrastructure consisting of the archives, the library, the object collections and the Deutsches Museum Digital. This makes up our research infrastructure which the other three research foci are built upon. There is, firstly, the collection-related research on which we work directly on the objects, including restoration and conservation research; secondly, the history of science, technology and the environment that places the objects in historical context; thirdly, science communication research, where it is a question of designing our work of communication with the visitors as well as possible and building on the latest findings in science communication. Finally, the educational works in the exhibitions, in the visitor laboratories, and in the many programmes that we build up for the communication of scientific knowledge every day. That is the interconnectedness of our different programme areas. You just mentioned educational research and especially restoration research, can you explain what's behind those? The objects in the museum are subject to an ageing process due to various influences, also due to visitor influences. In order to ensure that our cultural heritage is preserved, it is the task of restoration research to try to stop the ageing process affecting the objects and to preserve the objects as best as possible through preventive conservation using the latest methods, including non-invasive analysis techniques. We are standing here in front of Otto Lilienthal's Normalsegelapparat. This is a topic from restoration research that I would like to talk about briefly. The original glider by Lilienthal is currently being restored in the Deutsches Museum Flugwerft in Schleiﬂheim. The exciting thing about it is that from next year, i.e., 2021, this research laboratory and the workshop in the hangar will be open to visitors. Can you explain the details? Yes, this is the replica of the world's first series-produced aircraft, Lilienthal's Normalsegelapparat; the original, as you say, has been in storage for decades, not in the exposition. But many visitors are interested in this authentic original, which cannot really be replaced by the replica. Itís a fragile object that has been preserved over many decades with problems and under difficult conditions. We want to try to make it accessible to visitors again, but first, we have to use scientific methods and make the research process on the object visible. This is the task of this open laboratory, this restoration laboratory that we are setting up in Schleiﬂheim, on the basis of this iconic object, the Lilienthal Normalsegelapparat. Itís certainly a great added value for the visitors to look behind the scenes and see what happens to the object before it is exhibited here. Science in action, yes. You explained a few programme areas to us earlier. Unfortunately, the Deutsches Museum cannot manage them financially on its own. How are such complex projects financed and what has to be done until these necessary funds are actually promised and also made available? That's my main job, to bring in third-party funds, in scientific competition across the most important funding organisations, whether it is the German Research Foundation, which supports us in many projects, whether it is the European Union with its current Research Framework Programme "Horizon 2020", whether it is the Volkswagen Foundation, or whether it is the Federal Ministry of Education and Research. We submit applications to all these funding agencies, and here we have to assert ourselves against many competitors. But I think we do it quite well, and we do it very often in cooperation with our partners: our Munich universities, our other Leibniz collaboration partners or international partners. In this way, we make it possible to carry out our diversified research programme. One of the prerequisites for this is to know what the most important programmes are to which we can apply. Not every research funding organisation allows thematically unrestricted research. Often, we have to concentrate on programmes that have been advertised; to have this overview, but above all to write applications that are good enough to be approved. Sometimes that works well, sometimes not, depending on the funding organisation. One can say that a third or a fifth of the projects are statistically approved. For us, the success rate is much higher, I think we are simply experienced enough to make that possible. It takes a lot of effort, but the return is important. It is also an indicator of success in the scientific competition to acquire these third-party funds with partners. We are periodically evaluated by international commissions, and we have to meet many "performance indicators", one of which is the successful acquisition of third-party funds. They sum up to several million Euros a year and that is the prerequisite for us to be able to carry out our research programme in a solid way. In this area, the term "Rachel Carson Center" comes up. Can you tell us about it? That is one of the collaborations we have with the universities in Munich. Several of our colleagues are not only active in the museum, but also at the university: our Director-General, who holds a chair at the TU Munich, or my professorship at the LMU Munich. So, we have different collaborations, also in terms of personnel. We ride two horses, the university and the Deutsches Museum. That works very well together, and it includes a center for environmental research, the "Rachel Carson Center". It exists since 2009, a colleague from LMU and I run it together. Meanwhile, we have been supported with almost 30 million euros by the Federal Government to build up such an international center, a global force on the subject of environmental studies. We named it after a mother figure of the international environmental movement, Rachel Carson. She wrote "Silent Spring" in 1962, the book that started the American environmental movement, the global environmental movement. Many of our outreach activities in the Deutsches Museum, including the documentary film series "Green Visions" and also exhibitions, come out of this centre and profile the Deutsches Museum as a place of internationally excellent research. That sounds like a really great project. If I understand it correctly, a decisive added value is created in all research projects through cooperation and also through experimenting with new formats. Can you give us an outlook for the coming years? Yes, science communication is, one can say, in a state of upheaval, facing many new challenges, which we are also experiencing in the current pandemic crisis. We see how the public wants to participate in the scientific knowledge creation process, wants to be integrated, and that is one of the challenges we see: How we can work even more participatory? To see the public not only as a passive partner where knowledge is communicated linearly from science into the public, but rather as an active partner to allow for a truly open science communication. That is one challenge. The second is that citizen science is becoming more and more important, the participation of the public in the production process of scientific knowledge. Here, again, we have to react to this important process that is taking place in society and that we want to bring into the museum. These are two challenges, both of which can be described as "greater participation". We want to involve the public even further through various formats. We are working on this, among other things within the framework of a so-called ìAction Plan Research Museumsî. Here we are collaborating with the seven other partner museums within the Leibniz Association. We already talked about this in an earlier video, the Global Summit of Research Museums and the very many participatory formats that we are jointly setting up in the association of the Leibniz research museums; here, we are again supported by the Federal Government which provides additional funds for this. But I think we at the Deutsches Museum have always been quite good at this, being the hinge between science and the public, and the challenge, as I said, is participation. You have just mentioned the COVID-19 crisis, it is a very big challenge for the museum world as a whole and the Deutsches Museum is meeting this challenge with a stronger digital presence on the Internet. Can you tell us a bit about the museum's digital activities, or what the digital twin currently comprises and what is planned for the near future? We started relatively early, for the German museum landscape, to take digitisation seriously, first of all by digitising our holdings in the archives, in the library, but also in the collections; to digitise the collections in 2D, but above all also in 3D, in order to create added value for the visitors. Our VR Lab, Virtual Reality Lab, which we have built up, is one of the products that go in this direction. One of our tasks here is to make the wealth of knowledge, which is created through digitisation, available to the public, i.e., to attract many visitors digitally. We are a publicly funded research museum, which means that we make knowledge available to the public and precisely this open science that we can enable through digitisation, this digital twin that we place next to the museum or actually link: the real museum promotes the digital museum, and the digital museum promotes the real museum. These are not two strands that somehow take something away from each other, on the contrary: the more digital outreach we offer, the more visitors we will be able to attract again in the post COVID-19 phase, the more attention we will receive. We also believe that we owe it to society to open our archives, our depots with its treasures (only 20% of what we have is on display at most, 80% is in storage), to open them up and make them accessible to the public through digitisation. Finally, I have one last question, namely in which direction the research-related share of the museumís budget will develop in the future. Can you roughly estimate that? You are addressing an issue that has been burning on our nails for decades. We are a solitaire among the research museums. The seven others I have reported on are financed ñ we are now talking about funding, the financial flows in the national system of research ñ approximately between 75 and 100% through research funds. That means that the Federal Government, which finances research, and the L‰nder, the states, which then finance their share of the museums, get together and jointly fund these research museums. In the case of the Deutsches Museum, that is only 35%. No one can give you a plausible reason why that is only 35%, it can only be explained historically. At some point, our museum officials stated: "Yes, for the Deutsches Museum the research share is about one third." Today, however, we argue that we are 100% an integrated research museum, just like the others, which are already close to 100% or have reached 100%. Basically, we want to change that, and we are in conversation with our respective federal and local ministries, because we would actually like to see the model of the integrated research museum also substantiated in the funding. We are working on that. This would, hopefully, bring additional funds into the Deutsches Museum, which we urgently need in order to consistently fulfil our role as a truly internationally recognised beacon of scientific and technical education at all levels. We need more support in this regard, which is what we hope for from this increase in the research share that we are currently working on in the political arena. Thank you very much! Let me briefly summarise the outlook and the development perspectives: The Action Plan Research Museums is to be consolidated allowing for further collaboration and experimentation with new formats. The role as an outreach partner for research at the local, national and international level is to be strengthened. The digital twin will be expanded. The diverse research tasks are also to be better secured financially by increasing the research share. You have summed that up very nicely, I couldn't have done better. Prof. Trischler, thank you very much for another very entertaining and highly informative talk. You were able to show us very clearly the various facets of the research activities here in the museum. And dear viewers and listeners, we hope you also enjoyed this segment and were able to learn new and interesting things. Soon we will be taking a closer look at object-related and conservation research at the Deutsches Museum with Dr. Marisa Pamplona, and we would be delighted if we could welcome you back again. Until then, take care and above all, stay curious. 