 - [Narrator] This is The Rich Dad Radio Show. The good news and bad news about money. Here's Robert Kiyosaki. - Hello, hello, Robert Kiyosaki The Rich Dad Radio Show the good news and bad news about money and we broadcast from beautiful old town Scottsdale, Arizona. Much either heaven or hell right now it's heaven, it's the most beautiful spot and we have a great program for you. Kim is in South Carolina, at our home there. And I'm in Phoenix, Scottsdale, Arizona. And our guest today comes in from Chile. Now, this is amazing. 100 years ago, this would have taken years to get done. You'd have to send crews all over the world to get this done. But now it's done instantaneously so that's just magical, magical, magical. So Kim, you wanna introduce our guest please. - Oh, we got a very, very special guest. This is gonna be a jam packed, I can tell already. It's gonna be a jam packed 'cause we already, we got together and we start talking talking to our producers like whoa whoa whoa, we need to start the show. So our guest today is Simon Black. International investor, entrepreneur and founder of a very, very great organization called Sovereign Man, I think it's https://sovereignman.com if you wanna check him out. But he has a wealth of experience. He was also in the US Military Academy, West Point, served as an Army Intelligence Officer. But now he's really dedicated his life to, I would say the best way to explain it is to allow people to have the freedom that they want in their lives. And that's where sovereign man comes in and he can explain that so much more better than I can. And I wanna welcome Simon Black to the show. Welcome, Simon. - Thanks very much, great to see you guys again. You know it-- - He's in blueberry harvests now in Chile. - That's right that's right. Yeah, just despite this, less than glamorous, very boring white background behind me, yeah, I'm at a basically 1100 acre farm in central Chile, about 250 kilometers south of the capital. And a company that I founded here some years ago is a very large, blueberry producer. So we're just started the harvest about a week and a half ago. So it's interesting there's hundreds of people just outside the window, they're out harvesting blueberries, it's a great company it's a great business and it's delicious, but pleased to be here and appreciate the invitation. - Well I hope they're wearing mask and social distancing you what I mean. - Well, I would say at least the nice thing about is, when you have 1100 acres, it's actually kind of a, you're sort of socially distanced by default anyways but the tone here is a lot more easygoing, than in a lot of other places where they wanna lock everybody down and take away all of your, rights and all of your freedom. It's a little bit easier going down here now than it is in a lot of places in North America and Europe, at least at the moment. - And Simon you didn't just go to Chile, you've been in Chile for quite a while. So why why Chile? Why are you there? - Well, I mean, really for the business end of it, it's for what I wanted to do in agriculture, this was an ideal place, just with respect to and I mean, you guys love real estate, it's kind of a real estate play, right? So you've got the land cost down here so much cheaper than they are in North America, price per acre of farmland here is remarkably cheaper than it is in North America and yet, the price that you get for the production, what we produce is the same because it's an international market. So you have international prices. So obviously, it means your return on investment is really high. In a way it would almost be like as if you had an apartment building and you could bring all of your tenants to a foreign country paying exactly the same rate and yet buy the apartment building in a foreign country for a fraction of the price, obviously, your yield's gonna go through the roof and so that was sort of the investment thesis behind this and so far so good. - So welcome, wanna get into a subject near and dear our hearts here it says Cuomo the governor of New York, he gets was awarded an Emmy for bullshit. I mean, I'm going are you kidding me? I mean, what is going on? This guy gets an Emmy. He had the most COVID deaths of any person going 'cause he stuffs sick people in with old people and he gets an Emmy and De niro and what's another guy's name? I forget his name, but these commies out of Hollywood. They go, "Oh, he's such a good actor." I think that's what he is, he's a actor but anyways, Simon what I wanna get is you're a West Point graduate, which is a very prestigious military school and people don't know that and I went to Kings point you went to West Point and I was a marine and you're on army guy I mean, isn't this what we fought against, what's going on in America? Communism? - Yeah, I mean, you know what it is, there's so many people that think this is a great idea now. And there's nobody really to keep them in check anymore, because anybody that tries to, what we were talking about earlier, you've got all the you have the big tech companies now that, kind of funny like they used to sort of be more libertarian bent, they sort of stood for personal freedom, that's the whole idea is that the technology was there to empower the individual and create, really amplify voices and now it's just sort of become, like a censorship board for the Chinese Communist Party. They're there to shut down discussions and prevent, and it's not even about the election. God forbid, you say something that goes against the World Health Organization, about COVID, because then, Google's gonna come in and shut you down, Zuckerberg is gonna come in and shut you down, Dorsey is gonna come in and shut you down, then if you have anything to say about the election that happens to go, in the direction they don't want you to go, you can say whatever you want about the election, as long as it's not something that's, favorable to the guys that they don't like. So if you can say whatever you want it's like, if you're Pro-Biden that's fine, you can get away with anything. But if you're not, you're not allowed to even say things that are rational what we were talking about earlier, you can't even ask a question anymore, you can look at things and go, what? Seems kind of unusual to me that, truckloads of ballots sort of just materialized out of nowhere at three o'clock on morning, not even to make any any accusations, or assertions but just ask a question and say, can we at least ask or is this normal? Is this sort of standard practice? What's the protocol for this? Just normal questions you might wanna ask because I'm 42 years old, I'd never seen that before in my life. In 42 years, I've never seen that. And so it seems to me that it's least worth a rational person going, well, let's at least talk about this but you're not allowed to. You can't ask the question you're denounced as that's a crazy person. Twitter shuts you down and Google shuts you down, MSNBC cuts to a commercial nobody wants to hear it. And what we were talking about earlier, to me, this is a huge problem. In the United States of America, you're not allowed to ask a question anymore. You can't even ask a question in the United States of America and I think that really gives a sense of you can't ask a question, they give Cuomo an Emmy, he gets to write a book about leadership, leading the way and killing the most people from the Coronavirus, misses the book. This guy is writing a book telling other people how to lead, right? But you can't. Other people aren't allowed to ask a question, right? And this is sort of the state of where things are right now. And it's gotten to this point, where. - Simon, Simon. - You're right, I think they're. - Simon, Simon. - Yeah. - Now look, West Point is pretty hardcore. I mean, to get into West Point you've gotta be pretty pretty down the line hard. And then you go and you become a military intelligence officer. Where did you serve after that? After you got your call? - I bounced around, I was actually my first duty station was down in in Cochise County, Arizona where it was the home of the Intelligence Corps yeah. So I don't know if you've ever been down there. Yeah, exactly, Huachuca yeah. They used to, they used to every Friday, they would still do a reenactment of the shootout at the OK Corral, high noon every Friday. I don't know if they still do that or not. They they probably do like a wider pass to social distance now from all those guys so, it's just what a travesty that, this whole thing has turned into and it's funny. We were just actually I read about this today, I read about this study in the New England Journal of Medicine and you will appreciate this Robert, in the New England Journal of Medicine, they did a study where they actually use Marines because they said, we need people that are disciplined, that are hardcore, we can make rules and they're gonna follow them. And so they went to the Marines and so they had a bunch of, if I remember the study, they put a bunch of Marines on lockdown and so you tell the Marines, you're on lockdown and the Marines are gonna the marine's are gonna follow instructions, they gonna follow their orders, right? And they actually did a comparison and they said, "Well, let's," the idea was to study and see, how effective are the lockdowns, you're gonna take people's freedom away, with the idea that we've gotta, save society save our civilization from this virus and so let's see actually how effective that is. And so they did a real experiment. They had a control group and they had the experimental group, and they said, "Okay, we'll see the people that'll follow lockdown orders." And we went to the Marines because the Marines are gonna follow the orders. And then they had other people that they knew aren't gonna follow the orders or people that were just out there roaming around society and let's see what the infections rate were and what they found was actually negligible and the Marines on lockdown actually spread the virus ever so slightly more than the control group that wasn't in lockdown. And you kinda look at this and then you hear these people like Cuomo and they say, "We're gonna listen to the scientist, "we're gonna listen to the scientist," right? People say, "Well, there's the science," right? There's the science. But the funny thing is, they only wanna, listen to one science, right? They wanna listen to the science that, keeps them in power and lets them have dictatorial control over everybody, but not any kind of sensible science that lets people keep their jobs and live their lives. - When they hired Marines to do that they went subhuman there 'cause lack of a brain power. - And there's more and more science coming out more and more studies that are showing that people that are locked down and people that are it's the people that are indoors more that are getting COVID than the people that are not. So people that are locked down, it's having a negative effect versus this to your point, but they don't wanna hear that. - Well, this says nothing about suicide rates, depression, domestic abuse, drug use, alcoholism, child abuse and the fact that you've got children in their most important developmental years, that have been ripped away from their lives from their opportunity to grow and develop and the opportunity cost of that is incalculable. I mean, how much people's lives will be impacted, especially, young people, especially children. You look at this and say, like somebody that's six and they're and they're supposed to grow and learn and so forth and you take away all of their stimulus and all these things, to be able to grow and actually develop into a young person, the opportunity cost is incalculable , right? And it's just one of those things that we say we cannot lose a single person to COVID. So it was like, bullshit, all these things. I mean, if the priority was always we must save lives and they'd go and they'd say, Okay, well, what are the biggest causes of death? Heart disease, so what are we gonna do? We're gonna, nobody's allowed to eat beef anymore, which I'm sure would really please a lot of people that you have, if beef were outlawed or they say, we're gonna get rid of automobiles, because a lot of people die in car crashes and all these things it's like. It seems ironic to me that it's perfectly acceptable for somebody to die of pneumonia as long as the pneumonia wasn't caused by COVID, right? If somebody dies of Pneumonia that's okay but if it's COVID, induced pneumonia, then oh my God, we have to shut down the entire economy, for all these sorts of things. And so I think now all these politicians and people like Cuomo, they've gotten a taste of the power and now they feel like they can do whatever you want. And it goes back to what you're saying, Robert, I think sorry, go ahead. - I was looking at some stats, 'cause you look at the opinions and you look at the stats, in 2019, they estimated that 606,000 people would die of lung cancer from smoking. 606,000 and I think we're at 300,000. Somebody in Phoenix was killed in a motorcycle accident of course he had COVID, just before he crashed into the pole or something. But the point here is this, I mean, it is such bullshit. I mean, Kim and Kim is running into her girlfriends and she has three girlfriends now they could pass as triplets. They look the same. They act the same. They know this and they're so hardcore, right? I'm going Holy Mackerel, right, Kim? I mean, your girlfriends like. - Yes they are, yes they are and I love them dearly. My concern right now is Simon, if you look at all the media in the US right now, oh my God every day, they're saying, more cases, more cases, it's getting worse it's getting worse and they're setting it up, they're totally setting it up for another lockdown. And I mean, more people died today and every minute somebody's dying of COVID is such BS. Leslie is married to a marine pilot also. So what he was first round financing in Facebook and bitcoins, doing pretty well but Leslie is pretty hardcore, right? I mean, she is so up in arms on this thing. - Oh, she's very mad. She's a fighter she's a fighter. And that's what I'm hoping for more people stand up and make their voice heard and speak out and I just I would love to see some truth come out of this somewhere. I don't know if that's possible or not but whatever the truth is, I'd love to see it. - Well we need to go to a break right now so we come back we'll be joined again with dear friend of ours, Simon Black. He's out in Blueberry land, I think if they outlaw blueberries, you're in trouble but anyway, you know they. I think blueberries spit COVID or something? - Hopefully they won't cancel blueberries. - So when we come back, we're gonna find out what it means to be a sovereign man simply because years and years and years and years ago when Kim and I were just getting kind of on the circuit back in the 1990s, we ran into Jim Rogers and he was talking about being a sovereign man also. Where, as you know, Rogers flown all over the world. He wrote the book, "Investment Biker" and all of this stuff. So today, the people that are trapped are actually trapped in their minds. Do you know what I mean? Today, we are talking to South Carolina and Chile and Phoenix, Scottsdale, Arizona, and people are locked down. That's the insanity of it. So when we come back we're gonna find out what it takes to be more of a sovereign human being, while you're not trapped by the idiosyncrasies and ideologies of these whack jobs. We'll be right back. Welcome back. Robert Kiyosaki, The Rich Dad Radio Show the good news and bad news about money. Listen to the rich dad radio program anytime, anywhere on iTunes, Android and YouTube and please leave your review whenever you listen. And all of our programs are archived at https://richdadradio.com. We archive them because we're a financial education show, we don't recommend any investments. Anybody says that we recommend anything, that's not true. And the reason we archive them is because we repetition is one of the best ways you learn. So if you listen to this program, again, you'll learn twice as much. A paradigm of thought will shift, but also be our friends, family members and business associates who need some shifting this would be a good program, especially if they voted for Biden and Kamala and they wear a mile outfit all day long. But anyways, we're in a most divisive time in my time in history, I've never seen it this bad. I was talking to a young lady the other day and she says, "I have a twin sister." And this young woman says, "I travel all over the world." So she says "I just travel all over the world." I think she's like 35 or something. "And my sister is quite happy to sit someplace in Wisconsin "and get her 401K." She says, "Were identical twins "but what what is so different about us?" So as we all know, there's a lot of people who are quite happy to sit in Wisconsin, freeze their butts off and collect their 401K. But other people are traveling the world right now as a sovereign individual. Well that's what we wanna talk about is the idea that we're only limited by our thoughts today. Kim would you agree with that? - Oh absolutely absolutely. This is I mean, this is, as you say, Robert, this can be your greatest asset or your greatest liability and I'm seeing it every single day people that are talking themselves out of their freedoms and talking themselves into basically imprisonment entrapment and all of this, but the mind and your thoughts and your emotions make all the difference. - And it was probably about about how bad this is, this will be come out after Thanksgiving but they're gonna take Thanksgiving away. Do you know what I mean give me a break. I mean, the turkey is gonna put a mask on the old turkey or something, what are they thinking? But anyway Simon Black you're the sovereign man like Jim Rogers is a sovereign man, Kim and I travel all over the world. We do business all over the world. So what caught shifted for you? Simon, why did you just say, "I'm out of here, "I'm gonna be a free human being." It was actually when I was in the military and I will never forget the day, you probably remember it when they brought Colin Powell out, to testify to the United Nations and say, he's got those weapons and I think a lot of people that night, were looking at that saying, "This is bullshit." And at that point, it was obvious and Powell, went on later and say, call it the biggest mistake of his life, a black eye, a black stain on an otherwise impeccable career and he was right and I think he just sort of knew that it was, shaky and just saluted and tried to play the good soldier and follow orders but I think he had a lot of sort of moral and ethical misgivings about it. And a lot of people that night and I was one of them looked at it and said, no this is this is wrong. It made me realize that to me. - Simon is a military and information intelligence officer and he actually knew what was really going on. And Colin Powell explain who he is or was. Well Colin Powell, at the time was the secretary of state but prior to that a lot of people might be too young to remember but he used to be the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the early 1990s. And so he was a famous guy. He had far and away the most credibility of anybody on the international stage, in the Bush administration at the time and so that's the reason they sent Colin Powell to the United Nations. A US Army four star general, yeah. - That's a difference. And the reason I say that is because as a Marine pilot, we had to take orders from Washington and we're flying in Vietnam and going, "Where are they getting their information from? "This is not true." And so you were kind of in the same position being an Army Intelligence Officer. And what you see in here, not the same as Washington's saying. - Right, exactly and so you're kinda looking at this and that was when it really hit me that it's a lie and they're about to go to war, based on a lie. And it made me think, well, if they're lying about this, then what else are they lying about? - Amen. - Turned out to be quite a bit yeah, quite a bit. So that kind of I went down this little rabbit hole of just, getting my hands on everything that I could, reading as much as I could of everything, everything, not even stuff that I necessarily agreed with or disagree with, I just wanted to read as much as I could to really expand my mind and it's just what you guys were saying, Kim, that's really where it all starts and to me, it's not necessarily even about travel or going out and seeing the world, it's really what you do here it's what you do in your mind. And I think this is actually, not to dwell on what we're talking about earlier but I think this is actually a big part of the problem, today is that, you were saying, Robert, that it's the most divisive time that you can remember. And I think it's because really, people just they draw lines, they take sides, they're not willing to ever really have a discussion or concede anything or understand, the other side and I think, to truly be, an independent person, an independent thinker, I think it's important to try and at least get an understanding of it as much as you possibly can and open your mind far beyond what's right in front of your face, whether it's your geography or your personal ideology and so forth and I kinda joke with people, sometimes I see another, there's probably some things that I agree with Alexandria Ocasio Cortez about. Now, for the life of me, I can't think of a single example but who knows, maybe we're both really irritated with the Dallas Cowboys right now. There's something we can agree about, I don't know. But I think, when people just say, they're sort of against people and against personalities and they sort of dig their heels in, what it really creates is an intellectual closed mindedness and I think that's what we stopped growing as people. Is when we close our mind off to other ideas, especially before you understand it well enough to be able to form an opinion and then, properly, render an opinion based on facts, as opposed to just some gut feeling or opinion. So I think that's a big part of just being a sort of a sovereign person is just being really independent minded and open minded and trying to learn as much as you can even from people that you don't, you think you might not agree with? - So we'll talk about, you have a second passport and the reason that Simon puts on these fabulous program, pre-COVID of course but every time I went to his programs and of course, they were not on US soil for some reason Simon I can't understand why you did that. But I would go offshore with Simon and I would hear things that nobody should hear about because most Americans, they're like this is, "Oh, don't tell me, don't tell me, don't tell me." And so I was at one of Simon's Sovereign man conferences, he's talking about second passports and all this and I was still at the stage going, what the heck is he talking about? I mean, I understood second passports but I didn't know why I should have one. And Kim and I are now looking at second passports, right Kim? - Yes, absolutely. We just want options, we want options and I wanna say to your point to Simon about independent thinking is so lacking right now and unfortunately, I think one of the problems too, is everybody's acting so many people are acting off of opinions and not facts and they're not even their own opinions. They don't even know what their opinion is but it's all emotion. It's all of this craziness is driven by emotion, not independent thinking and we often say one of the most important things you can do is think for yourself question everything, which is what you did and I think that's a great starting point to be a sovereign man or sovereign woman today. I mean, I think that's crucial. - It is what you said, Kim, I mean, it's just really about having another option. If you have, when you think about your passport, confers citizenship and your citizenship, basically entitles you to certain benefits and theory also certain liabilities and everybody that's a citizen in the United States, as you know, certain benefits of being able to, live and work and so forth in the United States and that's a pretty big benefit. At the same time you're also signed up for some pretty big liabilities, like your share of the 60 plus trillion dollars in financial liabilities that's owed by the US federal government. Your liability of the taxes that they wanna charge in their sole discretion, whenever they want, all those sorts of things. You were talking our events and the things that people don't really like to hear, and to be clear, it's things like second passports, there're 100% legal. There's nothing about in the United States, it's against the law, as a matter of fact, there's quite a body of law, as well as executive orders that demonstrate this is 100% legal to have them to acquire them but certain things that are uncomfortable, for example, we stand on stage and read directly from primary sources, for example, talking about things like social security and say, don't take my word for it, this is what the treasury secretary of the United States has to say and this thing is gonna be bankrupt and before the decade is out, the trust funds are gonna run out of money. This isn't me saying this, this is the treasury secretary, the United States. And some of these things are very uncomfortable for people to hear, because they sort of stick their head in the sand and think like, oh, when I retire, I'm gonna do, they have all these plans for what they think their life is gonna be and suddenly we say, well, guess what, that's probably not going to happen and there are a lot of these things that are facts, not opinions that might actually throw a monkey wrench on them. So here's some potential solutions to them. The idea behind a second passport is to say, well, you know what, instead of having all of my eggs in one basket, I'm gonna start diversifying a little bit. And the second passport is really a way to diversify, because it means that no matter what happens, no matter what happens, or no matter what happens, even things that whatever doesn't happen, you'll always have another place to go. You'll have another place where you can live and work and invest and start a business and bring your family and do anything that you wanna do that welcomes you with open arms, we have the right to do that. And I think for a lot of people that benefit might have been interesting but almost cerebral, academic. And then 2020 came around and all of a sudden everybody was locked down in their homes, couldn't go anywhere, couldn't travel anywhere. But if you had a second passport, you could, right? You couldn't go to this place or that place so forth. But if you had a second passport, suddenly all these other countries saying, "Of course we'll welcome, if you're a citizen, "of course, we'll welcome you," right? So you could do these things with a second passport, I think 2020 is sort of showed the benefit of having those things is actually pretty phenomenal. - I wanna honestly say while Simon's still on 'cause were running out of time here. I go to a sovereign man conference. And I'm listening to all these different, he had all these different people from all over the world and they're pitching their deal as to which passport to get and I'm sitting there going Holy mackerel, well you get, if you come to our country, we will give you this deal and this time I'm going holy, it was like an auction. But the best one was Georgia. And Georgia is a former Soviet satellite and all this stuff. But the first thing I noticed is the people who actually have been in communist countries like Georgia and Bulgaria and those countries, they're the most anti communism. They're the most vehemently anti communism. And Kim and I have friends who escaped from Hungary back in 56 Hungarian revolution, they hate communism and where Kim is right now there's a huge Cuban contingency, they hate communism. And they hate Ocasio-Cortez on top of it and she's one of them, you know what I mean? But when I was at the sovereign man, this woman from Georgia stands up there she says, "Georgia's the best," I'm going, que pasa? Why is Georgia the best? She says, "Well when the Russians came to our Capital, "we stopped them at the gates." And I went, that's a sales pitch I never heard before. They can stop Russians at the gate. I said, Georgia went high on my list of passports. Anyway, that's the kind of stuff that Simon puts on. And I hope we get back to putting those conferences on again, because we really do need to open our minds. Any comments on that Kim? - Well, I just wanted comment and actually, in terms of your events, are you doing online events? Are you doing digital events? - We do for, we have some online things from time to time for certain of our members and I think we'll be in pretty short order getting back to the in person stuff. Most of our members have actually kinda did some polls and most people said yeah we'd love to do something in person, the problem is just finding the place to do it because everybody's just, locked down to get these hotels and say, well, you can do an event here, but everybody's gotta be six feet apart and you can't sit down and have a dinner and all these sorts of things. So it's a complicated time to try and do events but I think we're gonna get it figured out here in the next couple months. Here's the question I wanted to ask too is I know you're a very optimistic person and you see opportunities and so given all that's happening do you see opportunities coming out of this or that are existing now to the average person? What could somebody do today? - Yeah, look, there of course there are, there always are. You can look at the, I was actually talking to Kenny about this not too long ago, I mean, somebody's gonna have to figure out what to do with all this commercial real estate, for example, I mean, there's a lot of office property that is never gonna be used again, at least for office purposes and so that needs to be repurposed, somehow and I think somebody's gonna make a ton of money on that sort of thing but I mean, no matter what happens in the world, I think there's always, opportunity and then there's companies that fall into bankruptcy and there's opportunities to pick up very high quality assets, out of bankruptcy. I think there's always gonna be opportunity out there and it's one thing to say, I'm just gonna stay home and be angry but it's another to say, you know what, I'm gonna change my way of thinking and go out and look for the opportunities and I think it's that's a better approach. - That could be the biggest opportunity of all for somebody to say, hey, maybe I better do something different. Maybe I better look at a new way of thinking maybe I better change some of the things I've been doing. This could be a great op... This alone could be the opportunity. - Open your brains. Anyway Simon, I wanna thank you again, you can get free newsletters called notes from the field at his website what is your website again? - Go to https://soveeignman.com. - Https://sovereigman.com. Please check it out because if you want your mind open, Simon has done a great job of opening my mind to things I never saw as a loyal American. Like I said, when that woman from Georgia said, "We stopped the Russians at the border." I'm going Holy Mackerel, how did you do that? You know what I mean? Anyway, so there's so much going on and Simon is a West Point graduate, I'm a kings Point graduate, a Marine, I fought in Vietnam, he fought in Middle East and we're still fighting it. The trouble is, we're in our offices today. Our elected officials and that's what's really frightening. With that, Simon, thank you very much. - Thank you, Simon. - Thank you guys, great to see you again. - So when we come back, we'll be going into Kim and I will have some final comments on this very important subject called being sovereign individuals. And it really is time to open our minds. So when we come back, we'll be coming back with our final words. Thank you very much we'll be right back. - Welcome back, Robert Kiyosaki, The Rich Dad Radio Show the good news and bad news about money. Once again, you can listen to the rich dad radio program anytime, anywhere on iTunes, Android and YouTube. And please leave us a review anytime you listen. All of our programs are archived at https://richdadradio.com. We archive them because we are a financial education company. We do not make recommendations. However, we ask you to listen to this program again 'cause if you listen to it again, you'll pick up twice as much but also you have friends, family members and business associates, especially somebody who's hardcore, either a socialist Communist or whatever they are today. But America has changed, America has changed dramatically. So that's why go to https://richdadradio.com. Listen to this program with Simon Black. He's a West Point graduate and he was Army Intelligence. And that's what what he said about Colin Powell. I said the same thing. Because when I was flying in Vietnam, what we heard from Washington wasn't what was going on in the field. And that's when I turned also. I said, I'm not gonna participate in this bullshit anymore. So with that, I want to, Sara what's your comment our producer here. - [Sara] So it's a great show. Always great to hear from Simon. I think he's been on some real estate cruises with you guys. He's traveled with you guys so very, close friend of Rich Dad Company. But I think two things I took away one, his perspective. I think you asked the question, what made him become a sovereign man? What was it and there was a discussion about Colin Powell. I think that if we, as Americans don't start questioning our government, we're gonna find ourself in a place of no return. And so I liked that perspective that he had, he was a military guy who had a clean credibility, he was probably the most trusted and then he himself said, it was all crap. So that's the first thing that I took away. But then the second thing, I think, was what Kim said about our mindset that if we don't stop telling ourselves, we can't or that opportunities don't exist, then they won't that in order to be free, we have to free those thoughts in our mind. - Correct that's the most important lesson. Kim your thoughts? - Yeah I just think one of the healthiest things people can do today is to as Simon said, being an independent thinker. The US is changing, as you said, Robert and are you gonna change? Is this an opportunity for you to go Oh, God, I better start doing something differently but the healthiest thing I think we can do is to start questioning everything and start thinking, as Simon said, when he started out, he just started questioning everything and researching and getting the facts and not just operating off of thoughts and emotions and opinions, as so many people do. I just think it's a healthy, healthy attitude that's one thing I'm... That's one of my biggest takeaways is I'm gonna even start questioning more and digging even deeper. - A question what the media is pumping out, Trump says, it's all fake anyway, so, I mean he started that it's his fault. Anyway, I was just gonna, what Simon, I've told Kim the story many times is that when we were in Vietnam, we always went by body count. Oh, America's winning because we shot 3000 Vietcong and we only lost 200. Next day while we shot 6000 Vietcong and we only lost 100. That's how they ran the war and I'm going out there, and I said I don't see any 3000 dead people. You know what I mean, 'cause we're flying right over the battlefields. And I think one day, the day I changed, we're on an aircraft carrier. I'm sitting in the ready room. And I called, I used to call him Colonel Happy Feet. He's Mr. Positive and I hate positive people. This guy's up there dancing around 'cause he's trying to get to be a general or something. But he's talking about how America's winning all this bullshit. And I'm in Vietnam in 72. And I go, that's not what I see. I see it from the air. They're kicking our asses. They're kicking our asses. And so I raised my hand and this was the end of my career as a marine. I said, "Colonel, I have a quick question. "Why don't their Vietnamese "fight harder than our Vietnamese?" He said, "What are you saying?" I said, Colonel, "You might be on the wrong side." And with that, it was over. And sometimes you look out the window and you go, that's not what's going on and that was the end of it. So Kim has known what is like for me to get back in good graces with my fellow Marines as we went to the November 10th 2020 Marine Corps birthday ball, they still welcomed me back, right Kim? - Yes, they do but what you're telling me reminds me at the time, we were in Malaysia, in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and we started getting phone calls from our friends. And I think this is part of why Americans sometimes are hesitant to travel overseas, because the media makes it like all the countries outside the US are dangerous and you don't wanna go there. And we started getting all these calls while we're in Malaysia and it's like, are you okay? Are you okay? Can you get out? Are you getting out? Where's your next flight? And I'm like, we're like, what the heck are you talking about? Oh, all the riots and the protests and this mass violent protest that's going on. We're like, what are you talking about? There were 50 people having a peaceful protest in the town square that was it. And the US media made it sound like Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia was on fire. And that was a big wake up call for me going, well, they do not report anything that's really happening. - [Sara] That reminds me during the summer and I think it was in Minneapolis, there was a police precinct on fire and the CNN reporter standing in front of the police precinct totally ablaze going, "See, mostly peaceful protests going on around here." So yes, I agree with you what the media reports is not true. - What's gonna bring ratings. That's what they're gonna do. And let's pollute your mind to the way they want you to think. - Yeah, well, CNN used to be, I used to have tremendous respect for Ted Turner. 'Cause he drove a 12 meter yacht and won the America's Cup and I went to school to sail 12 meters in New York. But CNN has turned into communist news network, or continuous negative news network. And they really thrive on making things look horrible when they really aren't that bad. Or they lie about things that are really horrible when they I don't know, I just don't trust them. I think that's the worst thing. The same as the election right now, I don't trust it. I don't care who wins right now, I'll forever never trust the election process. I think that's the casualty. - And I think the other casualty which we were talking about at the start of the show was losing our right to free speech and being censored because we're not agreeing with what the media and what those in power want us to, we're not toeing the line. We're questioning it and we're rebelling against it. And that's quite a big discussion. - You canceled the subscription right? - To a magazine that I've been subscribing to for probably six, seven years and all of a sudden within the last eight issues, I notice it's gone very one sided very biased. - [Robert] Against Trump. - Against Trump, all pro COVID, it's a terrible thing. I got a text today that said, Every minute in the US somebody is dying of COVID. I'm like, really? Really? I mean, I don't trust any of those numbers. It's sad it's sad where I don't trust the media. I don't trust the governments, I just don't. It's sad, it's really hard to figure out what's real and what's fake. - And even in the investment news I was watching CNBC, and they're a communist organization also. They were bragging about, Dick's Sporting Goods, this innocent sporting goods store, their sales are up and all that and the reason is, is because they stopped selling guns. - Oh BS. - Second amendment. - That's ridiculous. - It's second amendment. - It's not because everybody's doing exercise at home and they're outside exercising because they can't get to the gyms. Come on oh, that's ridiculous, that's frustrating. - So anyway, sports fans out there, as we always say, all coins have three sides, heads, tails and the other side and the edge of it. So just stand on the edge look at both sides and make up your mind. I wanna thank Simon Black Sovereign man and I would love to have him get back in operation because his conferences definitely open up your mind. So thank you all for listening to The Rich Dad Radio Show and check you out next time. Thank you. 