 Hey Guys! For anyone looking to enhance their gaming experience, a gaming joystick is a basic necessity! If you are a beginner, then you must start right by finding your ideal joystick. And if you are an experienced gamer, then we don't have to tell you how incredible it feels to have the control of the game in your hands! In this video, we’re going to look at the top five Best Joysticks for PCs available on the market today. We made this list based on our own opinion, research, and customer reviews. We’ve considered their quality, features, and values when narrowing down the best choices possible. If you want more information and updated pricing on the products mentioned, be sure to check the links in the description box below. So, here are the top five Best Joysticks for PC: The fifth product on our list is the Logitech G X56 HOTAS. Ideal for those looking at VR gaming, the X56 is an advanced and complete control that features a subtle design that will easily place all the control in your hands. You can enjoy a rich gaming experience with the X56. Its sturdy material makes its stand out among other joysticks. Grip and control matter a lot, and Logitech has ensured that you will face no issues in this area while using this X56. It features the Six Degrees of Freedom, where you can pitch, roll, yaw, backward, forward, up, down, left, and right. The X56 comes with mini analog sticks at the thumbs, providing you more control. It also boasts an RGB backlighting technology so you can customize the lighting to blend with your setup. Regarding design, the X56 comes with a 16-bit aileron and elevator axis with hall-effect sensors. Also, the Stick Force can be adjusted with the help of the Advanced 4-Spring System. The X56 has more than 189 programmable controls where you can customize all 13 axes, 5 HATS, and 31 programmable buttons over three modes. Its pros are: * A realistic gaming experience can be achieved through the 6-degrees of freedom; * The accuracy and sensitivity available give you full control of the game at your fingertips; and * It has independent twin throttles to let you control the friction ideal during battle situations. Its throttle lock also helps you convert the twin throttles into one powerful engine. However, its power consumption is higher compared to other joysticks. But if power is not an issue for you, and all you are looking for is an excellent gaming experience, then the X56 joystick is what you need! The advanced technology and hi-tech design will leave you mesmerized and will guarantee a top-notch gaming experience. Up next in the fourth place is the Mad Catz V.1 Stick. The Mad Catz is an ergonomic, ambidextrous joystick with a trigger and five buttons that are easily accessible to give you full control of your game! The design is the first thing that you notice, and it leaves you awe-inspired for sure. The five buttons are perfectly positioned to ensure ease of use; Its smooth design offers a firm grip so you can make tiny movements. The pinkie switch can be used as a standard control, or programmed as a shift button to double up your control functions. The Mad Catz also comes with a POV switch so you can change cockpit views to keep track of your enemies when needed. This joystick is backed with the powerful SST programming software. You can create profiles for each game that you play to save different button configurations. It is also easy to set up and use. You do not have to spend hours reading manuals and user guides to understand its functions. Just plug it in and read about the few buttons, and you are good to go! Its pros are: * It has great ergonomics. It is ambidextrous so using it with either hand is not a problem; * The size and weight of this product are ideal. It is not too small to slip, or too big to look bulky. It would fit perfectly in your hand and let you tackle your enemies with full force. * The overall look of the product is quite fascinating; and * It is highly economical when compared to the other models available from competing brands. However, its cons are: * It does not support Windows 10 at the moment. However, Mad Catz confirmed that they would soon launch an upgrade for this; and * Its trigger is sensitive, so you have to be extra careful, especially when you’re in the middle of a crucial battle. The Mad Catz joystick is an ideal purchase for beginners. Considering the budget, you would not face any issues with this product. It is made up of sturdy material with good ergonomics, and it does not have many buttons to confuse you. The third product on our list is the Saitek X52 Pro Flight System Controller. Are you looking for a joystick with a display to keep track of all your activities? In that case, this joystick is made for you! The Saitek X52 Pro Flight System Controller is geared towards flight games. It features a Multi-Function Display or MFD for real flying interaction. There are two dedicated buttons to help you control the display, and two rotary dials with a built-in button to give you additional control while playing. It has a dual-spring centering system that makes the joystick work like a charm; every time you release it, it will come back to the neutral position with the help of this mechanism. The resistance increases when you move it farther from the ideal position, which enhances the experience. For durability and convenience, the stick comes with an advanced grip adjustment system with over five grip positions, and you may adjust it accordingly. Above all, there are contours present on the handle that easily blend in with your hands to provide a seamless gaming experience. Its pros are: * You can control the resistance of the joystick with a tension dial present on either side of the device; * The MFD is an exclusive feature that shows you everything you would want to know while playing the game; and * The design of the product looks flawless and is user friendly. However, the Saitek X52 is made for games that feature flight simulation. it would work with other games too, but you might not have an experience as pleasant as with flight games. So, if you are a gamer who loves flying jets virtually, this is the ideal joystick for you. It features everything you need, and you won’t complain after buying it. The second product on our list is the Logitech Extreme 3D Pro. If you are someone planning to have a full-blown PC setup for gaming and the only thing you are lacking is a Joystick, this a product you might want to lay your eyes on. The Extreme 3D Pro is as good as a blessing for the PC gamers playing games on Windows, which is something the majority does. It features possibly everything you could expect from a PC Joystick. To start, the stick has 12 programmable buttons that you can adjust and use based on your preference for added convenience. It also has an eight-way hatch switch that can be easily controlled by your thumb to switch between different weapons. Together with a rapid-fire gun, these are almost everything you need while playing games. The Extreme 3D Pro being USB driven is easy to use; all you need to do is plug it into your computer, and you are good to go. The handgrip of the stick is so comfortable that you might use it for hours without experiencing any trouble. Its pros are: * The heavy base provides stability to the stick. No matter what you are doing, it won’t trip off your desk; * The presence of a rapid-fire trigger gives it an edge over other competitors; and * The grip provides user comfort and convenience even for extensive use. However, unlike other joysticks, it is not compatible with gaming consoles but works flawlessly with the PCs. If this is not a problem with you, then the Extreme 3D Pro is an excellent device to consider. Before we reveal number one, be sure to check out the description below for the newest deals on each of these items. And, be sure to subscribe if you want to stay up to date on the best products on the market. Finally, the top product on our list is the Thrustmaster T-Flight HOTAS X Flight Stick. It does not matter if you are a moderate or a professional gamer; this product is an excellent accessory and would work flawlessly with whatever games you are playing. The stick comes with 12 buttons and five axles. Since every game has its own playing style, these buttons and axles are programmable. You can change their functions based on each game's requirements, as well as your usage. The stick is rotatable to several degrees left and right; you can roll or yaw as desired. With its dual ergonomic design, not only it rotates, but it also functions as a progressive tilting lever. It also comes with a hidden dial on the underside of the stick base. With this, you can adjust the stick's stiffness and choose the level of resistance that suits you. The T-Flight HOTAS X features an analog throttle, excellent for precise control both forward and backward. And to help you save all of the programmings, the device has an internal memory that keeps everything, even if it is frequently disconnected from the PC or Console. Its pros are: * It comes with a hand rest designed to provide comfort for your hand so you can enjoy playing even for extended hours; * You can use the product out of the box as it comes pre-configured so you won’t have a hard time setting it up; * It has exclusive features such as ‘Mapping’ and ‘Preset’ that help you save some time while setting the functions; * The 12 buttons and five axles of the Joystick are conveniently programmable so you can have a great gaming experience; and * The throttle of the Joystick is detachable, too, which helps you save some space on your desk while you are not using it. However, the cons are: * Although it helps you save space, its detachable throttle does not have a sturdy base; and * The buttons are ultra sensitive and might fire even with a slight touch. But, The T-Flight HOTAS X, it is an excellent choice for every gamer looking for superior control and accuracy. And that’s all for our top five joysticks on the market. Head over to the description below for links to more detailed info on each of the products. And remember to leave a comment to let us know your opinion. That’s all for now. Thanks for watching! If we helped you out in any way, please hit the like and subscribe button. We’ll see you guys in the next videos! 