 if you have lost hope it will be really difficult, even if you live in a good house, have cars and all if you do not have hope, it will be very difficult can you see them? those who don't know what killing Swahili is mummy, how are you? I am fine thank you, my name is Yuka, I am a Japanese I am married to a Kenyan I am excited today, thank you guys for coming to Nakuru we are excited you are excited? Mothers what is Hikari? Now Yuka, please encourage our audience let me try, even if I am not that fluent it's good to try Life has a lot of challenges things were not okay at first, I was really down , I completely lost hope I even gave up on life but right now I am living a comfortable life, I have a good husband I have children, my heart is filed with so much love I am trying my best to help people in the society and it's not about giving money or food but rather hope and job opportunities to enable people build themselves so don't ever lose hope because it's everything because even when you have nothing left at all, hope can enable you face and even overcome some challenges in life if you have lost hope it will be really difficult, even if you live in a good house, have cars and all if you do not have hope, it will be very difficult so never give up, keep pushing on however tough the situation may be God is there for you Sure and He loves us right? there's corona I have tried right? that was amazing, I feel I can't leave this set without learning some 2 words in Japanese please teach me how are you Nick? fine I am as fresh as fermented milk as fresh as fermented milk? are you shocked to hear you wife speak such fluent Swahili? I have heard her speak fluently so many other times but what shocked me is a story for another day at times you might disagree at times I am just hard headed so I do it I was warned about this just a little you are letting us down man.. our girl here is fluent in Swahili and you can't do the same in Japanese another one? I am done you are such a let down thank you you are welcome any time 