 Hey awesome ones I'm at the mall and I really want to check and see what's trending right now. I've also gone online. I've been looking in magazines, so today I have ten trending styles in 2020 enjoy. Now as a former model I know that trends they seem to come and go but you know the good news about 2020 is that a lot of these styles really look great on women of a certain age. I'm going to show you ten of them. Well why don't we start right now. So for number one this is a little different for me but I want to talk about the color...the color for 2020. That is chosen by Pantone and the color is classic blue. Now if you don't know who Pantone is they kind of choose the color for the year. I think last year it was coral but I love the fact that it's blue this year. So you're going to see a lot of this classic blue and they pick the color you know based on what they see on runways and what they see for kind of a global global trend. So let's take a look at some of the things that I found at my local mall. Now the good news for me is I absolutely love this color. And you know what you don't have to be matchy matchy perfect with a Pantone color. So again you might not have the exact match of the blue but you can come pretty close to it and I've got a lot of different outfits in this color. I have even a pair of jeans that's in this color and if you say well you know what I don't want to go out and buy a blouse or a jacket or pants or anything well then maybe just opt for buying a really pretty scarf with that particular color in it. And it really does...I'm just going to show you...it kind of really livens up your face especially if you've got those blue eyes going on. And talking about colors the other thing that I found at the mall was the trending styles of black and white outfits put together. So let's take a look at those. Now the nice thing about this white and black trend is most of us we've got this kind of thing in the closet already and we might have to take a look at some of the...whoa look at that coat, you know maybe something else to jazz things up but we've got it already. So the other thing that I found about pairing black and white is not only does it look classic and elegant but also if you're wearing like a black skirt or a black dress or maybe some black pants underneath it's also got that slimming kind of look which helps for a lot of us more mature women. Anyway let's get on to number three. And number three that I found that is still trending and still very popular are florals. Now you know what I'm not too sure about these loud floral prints. Every time I try them on, I don't know, I feel like an elderly grandmother for some reason. I prefer to go with the smaller florals also if you're not model weight it'll help you to look a little bit slimmer especially if the floral has a black background. So talking about prints and patterns another kind of style that's popping up all over the place are polka dots. So polka dots will be my number four. Again if I think if you're not model weight you may not want to go with the great big polka dots all over the place. But for me I certainly would go for this pretty polkadot black and white dress. So another thing that I saw trending at the mall were purses and handbags with embellishments and charms on them. So let's take a look at these. I saw a lot of bedazzled purses and handbags at the mall and over at Coach they even had a machine to put on charms and dasslers. And for number six...well it looks like the retro look of the 60s are back. Now although many of us don't want to go for the retro 60s miniskirt like this one we can certainly wear leotards under them. So hey we can have a lot of fun with this one especially if we remember the 60s and here I am in my retro look and of course I'm wearing leotards with it and my sunglasses, but you know what if you're old enough to still remember the 60s..... peace baby! Now most of us are going to be really happy to hear that animal prints because we did buy some of it didn't we..... anyway it's still going to be trending into 2020 and also what will be trending is faux snakeskin and I found all different colors and styles in the faux snakeskin. So that's my number seven .So I saw snakeskin in all different colors and patterns and don't forget you can also just add a pair of boots maybe a faux snakeskin boot or shoe and really just sort of be trending that way. And talking about number eight yes I have a pair of faux snakeskin shoes but also they are also highlighting something else that's really going to be popular and that's number eight and that's the slingback shoe. I know a lot of us if we really dig deep into our closet we probably have a couple pairs of these. So that's the one thing I love about style. Like I'm hanging on to my clothes a little bit more these days because everything old seems to come around and be new again. And talking about coming back into style...for number 9...mom jeans are back! Yeah for mom jeans. So the high-waisted jeans and skirts they certainly have made a comeback, but not too sure about this shortened kind of bell bottom look and you'll notice that I saw a lot of that. Let me know in the comments if you're gonna be wearing this shorter bell bottom look. Now I for one I'm really happy that the high-waisted look is back because you know what I don't think I'm ever going to be wearing the low-rise jeans again. You know like yes I try to exercise but ultimately I'm gonna have a little bit of a muffin top with those low-rise jeans and I don't know, I just think it's a nicer look and it kind of holds everything in kind of like shapewear being a high waisted skirt or pair of jeans or pants. Now for number 10 this may not seem like a fashion item but it is...a bold looking lipstick. And it really really accentuates a lot of the different styles that are showing up for 2020. And you don't have to go deep dark red or or purple or whatever color you.... or blue I've even scene some people with blue, but you know you do have to sort of make something a little bit bolder. So I must say for myself I've graduated from that lighter kind of pinky frosted lipstick to something with a bolder color like what I'm wearing today. I also am wearing red too, but this is sort of more for my everyday look and you know what if you're you're thinking you know maybe I should check this out just go to your favorite makeup stand and start trying on some of the bolder colors and maybe pick one or two and I guarantee you you're probably going to get some compliments of it on it rather I should say, especially if you've been kind of wearing the paler looks for a while. So I'm going to segue into bringing out the cuteness factor and our little Yorkie Hurricane. Hey Hurricane how are you? And whenever Hurricane comes on the scene I talk about upcoming videos and you know what I'm going to go through my closet I'm going to shop my closet and I'm going to find maybe five different looks using that black and white ensemble. You know what I mean. Anyway it's it's so classic it's so elegant and I'm going to show not just business kind of looks but also some casual looks with capris and maybe even some other looks that you can wear in the summer months. Also I've never done this before on this channel and that's I'm going to be putting on a skincare mask, sorry about that Bill. It might be very scary for you, but yeah I want to try out a skincare mask and let's see how it works out. And don't forget to check out my Instagram account. Just search Awesome Over 50. Every day I'm putting out something you know fashion, beauty, inspiration and I'm also doing the stories now. I bought myself a new iPhone 11 so that I can sort of make the pictures a little bit nicer for you. So I'm pretty excited about that and over on our second channel which is Youtube.com/AwesomeOver50inspiration we just put up a video and it's.....sorry to wake you up...we just put up a video and it's about six winter jaunts and getaways you know kind of staycations things that you can do around your own home and your own home area. And so we're excited about that and there's lots over there on that channel on travel and food and fun and health and so you might want to check that out as well. So there were a lot of other trending styles like the trench coat is coming back and blouses with bows and also clothing with fringes. So there were a lot of things that I saw and you know what being a former model I I really want to keep with the trends but I just don't feel like I have to buy everything that's out there and sometimes you just need to add just a couple of things or two or three things to your wardrobe. So I just got to tell you that I absolutely love doing these videos for you and having a lot of fun with fashion as well and I just really want to encourage you especially if you're of a certain age over 50 you know to kind of look at some of these things. Shop your wardrobe for sure ,you know go back and find those slingback shoes and maybe put together some black-and-white ensembles, but if you do want to go out and purchase some of them, I know a lot of you are gonna look just fabulous in that blue and some of the things that I've been talking retro retro 60s anybody. Let me know also in the comments what you might be thinking about trying out for 2020 that's a little different even if it's just a bold colored lipstick. You know I would love to know in the comments and hey if you're not a subscriber yet there's a button down there that you can just click on and also a bell that you can click on as well and then you'll be notified of when the videos are up. You know I hope that I'm inspiring you whether you buy a scarf or just a little something something to maybe feel a little bit more confident about your look and also to keep it awesome. 