 Where did we leave off? At Marseilles Airport, where that pilot jumped out of his hijacked Airbus. The hijackers wanted to crash the plane and its passengers into the Eiffel Tower. Please note, that was in 1994. Seven years before the attack on the World Trade Centre. You could say that the writing was clearly on the wall. You'd wish there were clairvoyants. People who can spot key moments... ...and warn us, like historical whistle-blowers. When would they have warned us about Russia? After the fall of the wall it seemed like Russia would be a good neighbour. But when Putin came to power, things soured. And now Russia has taken on its old role as adversary. It's always easy to ask in hindsight: Could we have seen it coming? in europe nowadays in europe We started the new century brimming with optimism. Things could only get better, but that was a misconception. How was it possible? It seemed like no one saw it coming. But nothing is harder than recognising history when you're living it. in europe history caught red-handed Something went wrong in the relations between Russia and the West. It happened somewhere in the past 20 years. You just have to look at the body language... ...of these two world leaders in 2018... ...and compare it to the body language of their predecessors in 1995. When we Russians saw this... ...we still dreamed that Russia could become a member of the EU... ...or maybe even of NATO. Now, after 20 years of Putin, there's not much left to laugh about. Of course we could've seen this coming. There were plenty of signs. Like, for example, on April 14, 2001. On April 14, 2001, armed forces raided the Russian TV station NTV. They took over the station. It had been too critical about Putin. Many feared this would also be the end of the popular satirical puppet show Kukly. Vladimir Vladimirovitsj? Wake up. A disaster. What? What's the matter? How should I say this? I can't... Just say it. - Don't worry about it. Spit it out. - You, you.... I can't. Let me explain. Go ahead. Now what? You are no longer president. There, I said it. Then who is? All of Russia tuned in to watch Kukly make fun of the rulers in the Kremlin. But Putin couldn't laugh about it. He made his rich friends buy the station. After that Kukly was finished, together with the freedom of the press in Russia. That was on April 14, 2001. It seemed like any other day, but it was to become a key moment... ...for a country that forbids criticism and satire opens the door to tyranny. In Russia we have a law. A strange law. I'm not aware of a similar law anywhere in the world. Muslims have something similar. They forbid depictions of the Prophet. But in our country you cannot depict anyone without his or her consent. The Dutch film crew was certainly not aware of this. That they were punishable by law... ...for letting their Russian producer lug around that blue bag... ...containing... No, wait, I almost spoiled the surprise. They came here to see what has happened since Kukly's got cancelled. Can you still make fun of the Kremlin on television? And what has happened to the puppet of Putin? They first looked in the shed of the show's producer at the time. Is Putin still here? - We don't know. This is the current Minister of Defence. Your hand goes in here. 'We are fighting in Syria now. We have defeated everyone there.' Blair is still in good condition. He's well preserved. Brexit. What the fuck, Brexit. No Putin. That's not suspicious, at all. So there's no puppet of Putin here. It's said that Putin not only wanted to get rid of the show... ...but that he supposedly also gave the order to destroy his puppet. Could this be true? Is it possible to kill a doll? If anyone knows the answer, it's bound to be the puppet maker. Since then, he has been living as a recluse on the outskirts of Moscow. How many puppets do you think you made for the show? I think I made over 200 in total. It was, I believe it was in 1999. I received a request to make a puppet of Putin. I fulfilled that request quickly. A Russian would have noticed the sudden cautiousness. At the mention of the name Putin... ...the puppet maker started moving uncomfortably in his chair. Is it me, or the mention of the Putin puppet... ...that you are minding your words? Well, first of all... ...people can say whatever they like about the puppet. It's not Putin. Because Putin and the Putin puppet are two entirely different things. What do you want to talk about? About Putin or the Putin puppet? You need to make a clear distinction between the two. Then he suddenly disappears into the adjacent room... ...and returns with something he has wanted to get rid of for a long time. I would like to give you this puppet. I wish you all the best with your exciting project. I hope that everything you make... ...and show the people will make the world a better place. You don't have to be a psychologist to feel the sense of relief... ...with which the puppet maker stuffs the puppet into the bag. For years he must have stored the latex head somewhere in his house. The only tangible evidence... ...that there once was a very popular TV show... ...that was no longer allowed to exist in Putin's Russia. Oh, Vladimir Vladimirovitsj, you made us laugh so often. Perhaps the real Putin was afraid you'd become more popular than him. Perhaps that's why he had you destroyed. But who he really wanted to destroy was the writer of the TV show Kukly. This was done by every means possible... ...as this grainy black and white sex tape that's circulating the internet shows. It was clearly not about revealing the woman's identity. It was about showing all of Russia who the man in the video was. His reputation had to get sullied. Victor Shenderovich, Kukly's most important scriptwriter. They had sent a prostitute. None of us knew that she was a whore. They filmed everything in a rented apartment. A costly affair. The government is behind it. And they made the video public. And she was the perfect bait. With much success she had lured many of Putin's political opponents... ...into hotel rooms filled with cameras. Including the scriptwriter of Kukly. Apparently the Kremlin still considered the writer to be an enemy of the state. When we were given an ultimatum in 2000... ...we had to follow three rules to keep on broadcasting. One: stop investigating corruption in the Kremlin. Two: stop providing information about the war in Chechnya. And three: the main character of the show Kukly had to disappear. No name was given, just 'the main character'. But what we were wondering was: What kind of ruler feels threatened by a show with puppets? Take, for example, this random episode... ...that takes place shortly after Yeltsin hands over the power to Putin. Please stop crying. You're not even much to look at. Your background, may God forgive me, is also very questionable. And then that look... 'Mother Yeltsin doesn't know what to do with you, you are that ugly.' Kill them in the crapper. Oh, he speaks. Kill them in the crapper. Kill them all in the crapper. But then a Kremlin advisor combs your hair with a magical comb... ...and suddenly no one can see how ugly you are anymore. You wrap the sycophants in the Kremlin around your finger with your sweet voice. Who will pull those magical hairs from his head? Who? I will. - Very good. Farewell. And when suddenly someone pulls a pluck of hair from your head... ...the spell is broken. It's said that Putin was furious... ...and that Shenderovich had signed his own death sentence with this episode. How horrendous. This is not what we want. Be gone, you cretin. He experienced it as a personal affront. They were afraid. Naturally, because laughter desecrates rulers. Because no one is scared of someone who is laughed at or ridiculed. You can't fight laughter. First of all, when a person laughs they feel free. And whoever is ridiculed is no longer terrifying. I'm a satirist, a writer. A writer occupies himself with writing texts. In a free country a writer will always be just a writer. But in a totalitarian state he becomes an enemy of the state. An authoritarian regime turns every free citizen into a politician. In a free country, when a free citizen protests it's just their opinion. In a country that's not free, a protester becomes a politician. If you ask someone above 30 on the streets of Moscow about Kukly... ...they'll often start talking about the 100th episode of Kukly... ...in which they turned things around. The Kukly puppets are talk show guests who watch their favourite scenes. The scenes aren't from Kukly though, but from actual political life. The first question for everyone: What do you think of your twin puppet? Personally I find my twin puppet very sympathetic... ..even though I feel that the makers change his outfits too often. Boris Nemtsov, with whom I had the honour of being friends... ...enjoyed scuba diving and underwater sports. When you run out of oxygen... ...and you realise that you can't surface on time... ...a breath of oxygen becomes very valuable. You don't realise this in everyday life. You breathe in and out. But when you can't do that, it becomes something very valuable. That's what he said about freedom. The fear of not being able to breathe is something very physical. Nowadays, when people tell me about how they remember the time of Kukly... ...they're not talking about Kukly, but about the sense of freedom. That you could turn on the television and laugh out loud... ...at the people in power. At first, no one knew what to expect of Putin. Yeltsin and his family were corrupt, but above all very pro-Western. The contact with Russia was warm. The Cold War seemed ancient history. That under Putin, the Russians would start a war with Georgia... ...or invade the Ukraine, seemed unthinkable back then. Let alone, an occupation of Crimea. But the puppet of Putin as a crying baby was about to seize power himself. Kill them all in the crapper. That you can sleep so peacefully after all you've done these past 20 years... ...is not just thanks to you. That you wake up cheerfully because Russians see you as their saviour... ...is not only because of your blue eyes. That's mainly because of a small group of advisors and spin doctors... ...who do everything in their power to convince the Russian people... ...that the country is lost without Putin. I used to play a gambling game, a game called: 'The Amazing Putin'. Putin had to be magnificent. And in reality, he was magnificent in most regards. Everyone knows this man in Russia. Gleb Pavlovsky. He invented the rules to the game. For over a decade he did everything he could to keep Putin in power. I can't regret it, because I believed in what I did. But some things ended really badly. So in hindsight, I could cowardly say: 'Sorry, Putin did that, not me.' But I was actually also to blame, because I helped him. The game Pavlovsky and his friends played was a very dangerous one. They fed us fairy tales about Putin. And we Russians always love a good story... ...so we believed them for a long time. We had created a weapon. At least that's what I thought. We wouldn't have to fear a thing with this weapon. But now the weapon itself is terrifying. When we finally woke up, it was too late. By then no one knew the difference between fairy tale and reality anymore. In Russia we have two different words for the term 'truth'. They have two different meanings. The first word means the actual truth. And the second word means more of an ideal. In the Russian literature we all grew up with, including myself... ...the second meaning of 'truth' is the most important. The first meaning is less important. So, often you can... ...lie... ...or do other wicked things... ...like break the Ten Commandments. But so long you're striving for that second meaning then it's fine. Then it's justified. Pavlovsky is actually saying: The end justifies the means. If the only truth you know is that only Putin can save the nation... ...then all means are acceptable to keep him in power. But to what extent? How do you know what's really true? That became abundantly clear when four flats were blown up. There were hundreds of casualties. Putin blamed the Chechens. He promised revenge and we Russians were cheering. Finally a man of action. We're going to catch those terrorists. Anywhere, at airports, in bathrooms... If they are in the crapper, we'll kill them in the crapper. Period. When a few days later a suspicious white powder was found in a fifth flat... ...that was put there by Putin's own security service... ...no one knew who to trust anymore. Was Putin himself behind the attacks? There was doubt everywhere. If the end justifies the means, like Pavlovsky said... ...then who can you still trust? My wife and I often retreat to our country house, far from radio and TV. There are woods, snow and peace and quiet. Almost everyone is afraid, almost everyone is silent. This is Misja, Mikhail Zlatkovsky. To find him, you need to look between the bleak flats... ...where the heaters burn too hot in the winter... ...and the trees are covered in the garbage... ...that the upstairs neighbours have thrown out the window over the years. It doesn't surprise Misja Zlatkovsky anymore. He once saw a bicycle hang from the tree in front of his window. It doesn't interfere with his work. This is my famous drawing about power, about contemporary rulers. They are seated in the Kremlin, which is like a crown. And because the crown has fallen over his eyes, the ruler is blinded. This is one of my few optimistic works. Of course he won't go anywhere, but at least he's trying to. He's filling his balloon with air. Maybe the island will take off. I really hope that he does fly away. His political cartoons have won prizes all over the world. But here in Russia, not a single paper dares to publish his work. The period of perestroika was the happiest time. The Gorbachev era. I started off with making drawings of Gorbachev. The Yeltsin era was also a great time. Because... When asked what Yeltsin thought of the cartoons, his spokesperson said: 'Horrible. He hates them.' 'When he gets his hands on a paper he tears it up. Into pieces.' 'After he paces the room for a bit, he says: No, let him draw. A democracy must remain a democracy.' That's why things were fine back then. That ended with Putin. Since then Zlatkovsky was no longer allowed to draw generals and soldiers. And then no more police officers or other representatives of the judiciary. And one thing was entirely off limits: political cartoons of the president. Personally, I was made aware of this on the day of his inauguration. The chief editor called me to his office and said: 'Misja, the president is furious and is seeking revenge.' 'We have to stop with the cartoons.' In 2014 the paper was closed down. That was the end of it. For Dutch television he's willing to try to make a drawing of Putin. But only if he remembers how to do it. It has been forbidden for many years. He can't do it. In that case, the drawing of himself in the bathtub is much better. It's called: The Secret Dissident. All the passengers and crew and even the anchor... ...are seeking a better future. But there's one person who doesn't want to move forward. He wants to go the other way, but yet he stays aboard. Putin's advisors, his spin doctors, succeeded really well in one thing: Every form of criticism of their boss was completely eradicated. Meanwhile, journalism has become one big circus. We Russians were getting buried with fake news... ...long before Donal Trump was even dreaming of the US Presidency. Pavlovsky had become so popular... ...that he even got his own puppet on the Kukly show. And every day that puppet filled Putin's ear with new fake news. Even in the 90's we were already ahead of the US and Europe with certain things. What were those things? With loosely interpreting the facts. But we didn't consider that lying. And in the 90's of the last century, the idea became very popular... ...that news is whatever we decided it to be. And I know the man who is currently active... ...as one of Putin's media 'generals'. In the 90's, he made independent television. He told me that back then he would meet the station's owner in the evening... ...and while enjoying a bottle of whiskey... ...they would determine what was going to be news that night. What was news today and what will become news tomorrow. Even then it was already a degenerated form of propaganda. But it's based on the idea that news is what we come up with. And that news is sometimes made up. Good evening. Tonight: What does Putin want with blueberries? We should pick them and sell them at the farmer's market. These are unique images: an eight kilometre mountain hike. These are just fitness exercises. How did the men feel who accompanied him? Days later, my muscles were still sore. Does Putin need guards? Bears aren't stupid. When they see Putin... Dmitry Peskov talks about Putin's show and even about who he loves. Putin loves children, people in general. He's a real people person. What you see on TV is not news, but an ongoing series. A drama series with one main character: Vladimir Putin. He fights off enemies. He faces dangers. And Putin watches the show himself. He tells them to make fairy tales... ...and then he watches them too. That way he believes it's all real. It's a bit similar to the situation with Trump in America. We have Putin, they have Trump. That's right. Does Putin have a sense of humour? He likes making jokes, but he doesn't like jokes about him. And that was exactly the problem... ...with the show Kukly. In that show he was the target of ridicule. So he does have a sense of humour... ...but with one exception: When the jokes are about him. In 2011, Putin fired Pavlovsky, his spin doctor. His access card to the Kremlin suddenly didn't work anymore. From a cellar filled with books he fights the monster he helped to create. He knows like no other, how impossible it is... ...to get that monster back in its cage. As always, Kukly was eager to make fun of Putin's gratitude for his spin doctor. Oh my, I don't feel too good. I need a cure for this hangover. Are you awake, dear Gleb? -Yes, yes... Sorry, I'm not in such good health as you are. Get up, I'll help you. That's it. This is for all your talk about those puppets. This is for all your meddling. And this is for all your chatter in the restaurant. And this is for the moonlight walks. Thank you, Gleb. Thanks for everything. You're welcome. Yikes, how horrible. Aren't your hands itching now to write a new episode? Sometimes they itch. Sometimes, yes. Another factor is the difficulty. It's hard because it's not fun anymore. That's my personal reason. You need fun to write a piece of work. All the fun is gone now. You can't make the same jokes like you did 20 years ago. Not just because it's forbidden. It's joyless. The fun is gone. Too much blood. In the end, our film crew manages to persuade him anyway. He's going to try to write one more Kukly scene. He already has an idea. One beautiful day, the real Putin finds a box. When he opens the box he finds the puppet of himself. He thought it was destroyed 18 years ago. Here's the script. The idea is that puppet Putin talks to puppet Putin. The puppet will be placed like this. Oh, mein Gott. Stop speaking German. Fuck. For a brief moment, things were like they used to be. The former director and an actor start working on the script. But then the idea of a new Kukly scene turns out to be very naive. The other people who used to work on the show pull out one by one. Are they still scared of Putin? Or is there some other reason? I think... They were either scared or they wanted to see money. There could be two reasons. They were either scared or they wanted to see money. Even in our country, I think that money is more important at the end of the day. Most people's love of money outweighs their fear of those in power. And moreover, if people don't get paid a large sum of money... ...for something they could get into trouble with, with those in power... ...they get scared and pull out. Money gives people courage. Moreover, I even think it depends on the amount of money. For enough money even the Kremlin will join in. For the right amount. Money. Roubles, dollars, euros... We love it just as much as you do in the West. Perhaps that plays a role as well. As bizarre as it may seem, it remains a fact... ...that many fans of Kukly voted for Putin in the end anyway. Because Putin promised peace and security... ...and an end to economic chaos, like under Yeltsin. When people can choose between a corrupt, evil democracy... ...and a man of action... ...most people will vote for the man of action. Because he represents stability and security. Nowadays, it's even explained to young children... ...that stability is more important than understanding. That Russia is in danger without Putin. It's the same kind of story my father was once told. He cried when Stalin passed away. His father had been imprisoned, and yet he cried for Stalin. They're trying to convince us... ...that stability contributes more to our safety than understanding. That freedom and democracy are dangerous. The democracy under Yeltsin was weak. Freedom was something dirty. Then you can either improve the quality of that freedom... ...or get rid of it entirely. They just took our freedom away. You could say that you are largely responsible... ...for the fact that Putin currently has so much power. I'm often accused of that. People don't take responsibility for their own actions. They look for a villain who they can blame for everything. And I'm the perfect villain. But I'm not solely responsible, of course. I played my part in it. But dozens of other people took part in this as well. And more importantly: millions of people voted for Putin. Those weren't zombies. They elected him themselves. But now they refuse to admit that. And well, if they're looking for someone to play the role of the villain... ...then I'm willing to play the part. 