 - Good afternoon everyone and welcome. I'm Tsu-Jae King Liu, the Dean of the College of Engineering and it's my pleasure to welcome you here to hear Mr. Gary Dickerson, president and CEO of Applied Materials. He's speaking today as part of our View from the Top series that brings leaders from the industry to our campus. Before continuing with the program, I'd like to acknowledge the Robotics at Berkeley student group for co-sponsoring today's lecture. Let's give him a hand. (audience applauding) Okay, so first I'd like to tell you about our speaker today, Gary Dickerson. Gary started his career in semiconductor manufacturing and engineering management at General Motors Delco Electronics division and AT&T technologies, this was in the 80s. In 1986, he moved to KLA-Tencor Corporation which is a global company that supplies process control and yield management systems for the semiconductor industry. Gary stayed at KLA-Tencor for 18 years serving in various roles in operations and product development before being named president and chief operating officer there. In 2004, Gary joined Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, which is a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, as CEO. Seven years later Varian was acquired by Applied Materials and Gary was named president and CEO the following year. He joined the board of directors of Applied Materials in 2013. Gary's many accomplishments have earned him the Semiconductor Industry Association's Robert Noyce Award, for outstanding achievements and leadership in support of the semiconductor industry. And I'd like to give you a sense of the rapid pace of progress that has occurred over the years since Gary has been in the industry during the course of Gary's career. So consider that in 1986, when he joined KLA-Tencor, Compaq Computers was touting a 32-bit computer with a processor chip that contained 375,000 transistors. Actually, it's 275,000 transistors. Today the most advanced microprocessor chips have close to 10 billion transistors. So it's an exponential pace of improvement in performance. As the capability of computing devices has grown, so have their applications. Today we are living in the era of mobile computing and we are seeing the emergence of the Internet of Things. The ability to collect and process more data more quickly has given rise to big data applications such as machine learning and artificial intelligence which present new opportunities and also new challenges. This is why I'm eager to hear Gary's perspective today on the future of the semiconductor industry in the era of artificial intelligence. And in addition to the lunch which is helping to attract you and keep you here, I just wanted to let you know that Applied Materials is actually providing all attendees at the end of the lecture with a set of virtual reality glasses. So I hope you will, make sure you get your pair on your way out. So without further ado, please join me in welcoming Gary Dickerson to the stage. (audience applauding) - Thank you. Well, thank you very much. You know, I feel Tsu-Jae talked about my career and you know I can still remember being a student back in engineering many many many many years ago and I really do feel that I'm one of the luckiest people in the world in the experiences that I've had through my life. And I also, I've seen many changes, certainly Moore's Law has transformed many aspects of our lives but I deeply believe we're at the biggest inflection that any of us have ever seen. And I wish I was sitting in one of those seats out there today. All of the men and women out there today, this is really the most exciting time of our lives where technology is going to transform many industries, I'll talk a little bit about that today. And really at the foundation all of this is Material Science, I'll talk a little bit about that and later I'll talk about Applied Materials and how we think about all of this. Also the relationship with UC Berkeley has been for many many years, I went through the lab today, it was exciting to see all of the different technologies that were there. It kind of takes me back to earlier days of my career. And we have a lot of graduates from UC Berkeley. So maybe just stand up some of the people that we have that are graduates from UC Berkeley that are here today. Some of the leaders from Applied Materials that are in really significant roles, new markets and alliances our display flexible technology business. All of those things are our major parts of Applied Materials generating billions of dollars of revenue and certainly very very exciting from a technology perspective. Alright, so let me start into this presentation here. So if you look at this information, in 2008, 2018, what do you see that's notable in comparing the companies that are leading in terms of a Market Cap? What's notable about this? (man speaking off the microphone) Software's taking over, that's not correct. (audience laughing) But I appreciate the feedback. I think technology companies are taking over. Technology is taking over and you know again, the other thing I would say is the companies that own the data. The companies that own the data are the fastest growing companies in the world today. It so really gets back to this data centric economy and again the transformation that we're gonna see over the next decade or 15 years is really really really fundamental. So data centric economy, world's most valuable resource, trillions of dollars of economic value will be created over the next decade. Every aspect of our lives, transportation, healthcare, entertainment, industrial retail, you see already transforming. Companies that own the data are growing the fastest. And all of our lives are going to be transformed in fundamental ways when I'm here or if I'm in China, I'm in China next week, when I talk to all of the, everyone through this whole ecosystem, there are fundamental changes in all aspects of our lives. And again data is really at the foundation of that. So then you have, from a data perspective, generating data, storing data, processing data and connecting data. So if you think back to this slide here, oil that's not processed isn't worth much. So certainly collecting data is very very important. You see how many people go to CES, Consumer Electronics Show? Many people here. So if you go to CES you see explosion of smart devices, everything in our world is becoming smarter. And then you have to store the data, just like you have to store oil in a barrel. But until you process that, you don't unlock the value. So processing that data very very important and certainly connecting the data 5G, you know, other connectivity, very fast, low latency connectivity on the edge certainly is very very very critical. So you have all of these different aspects of the foundation, you know, software certainly a part of it for sure but if you don't have the hardware that allows you on the edge device to collect that data with low power and process the data efficiently, the performance per watt... You really have to have the hardware and really there is a renaissance relative to hardware. In the last 18 months, you've seen more money going into startups, semiconductor startups than you had in the last 18 years. And I'll talk more about this but fundamental changes have to happen to enable this data economy. A 1000 times improvement in performance per watt have to happen in the cloud at the edge to see this transformation take place. So then, if you look at 2000, if you look at data, the growth of data, in 2018 something happened for the first time. What happened for the first time? (man speaking off the microphone) That's right, yes. (audience laughing) That's correct, by the way, I love all the responses. And the brave people, we should celebrate the brave people that respond or ask questions. So you're right, I mean what's happening going forward, data from humans as a percentage is declining and you see this explosion. Again when you think about healthcare, democratizing the diagnostics, fast diagnostics, remote diagnostics will have a tremendous impact on the lives of many people and certainly will have a tremendous impact on healthcare cost. Again, many many many areas, I talked about many of those industries that will be transformed. And so you see data exploding and most of it not coming from people. So then, if you look at A.I, A.I fundamentally has been around longer than Moore's law. And back to 1955, were some of the first papers that were published on A.I. And then if you think about why is A.I. and big data happening now, you have this machine learning that's collecting massive massive amounts of data for the relentless classification to make determinations and predictions because now again you can collect that data, you can store that data at very low cost whereas before that wasn't possible. You can process that data at very low cost. And certainly, I'll talk about what we need to do going forward, we already see retail being tremendously disrupted with Amazon. You know, again, the people that own the data, use that data to change, to restructure many of these industries, those are the companies that will win for the future. And by the way, I would say even with tech companies, there will be fundamental changes and certainly the companies that don't embrace this A.I. Big Data, data centric transition will go out of business. There's no question about that but even tech companies, there will be disruption and how we build these capabilities. And there will be winners and there will be big losers, spectacular losers as we go forward into the future. Okay, so if you look at general-purpose computing versus A.I., there are major major differences. And you know, as we work with all many companies in many different industries, the the CTOs of the automotive companies, they know their companies are going to be facing a very different competition. It's not about driving experience in the future, it's about user experience in the future. You have electric vehicles, autonomous vehicles. And already those CTOs, they're thinking about you and me sitting in a cockpit and they have the digital cockpit, we're in there for 45 minutes or an hour, in some cases we're in there on a highway... By the way the highway doesn't have a lot of things happening, it's a more controlled environment but they think about how do they monetize us sitting in that cockpit. They think about the nature of competition being completely different in those future types of the competitive dynamics for those industries. So when you think about, A.I. in Big Data and transforming all of these different industries on the edge and in the cloud, certainly parallelism is very very important. The workload specific computing is very important. So if you look at Apple or Amazon or Google or many of these different companies, they have thousands of device designers. And that's not something we had seen in the past. Why are they doing that? Anybody wanna to be brave and... Why are they designing chips now where they weren't designing chips before? Yes. (man speaking off the microphone) Absolutely, all has to do with workloads. So if you think about video, audio, text and workloads for specific applications, you can design computing that is dramatically better than a general-purpose computer. And and so you see that for all of those different big technology companies designing computing around those specific workloads. So the future of computing, the future of how you store information, how you connect information, the latency for different kinds of applications are huge, huge importance. If you think about $10 trillion and that's why also I was mentioning earlier about software versus Hardware. Certainly both of them are very important. But if you don't have those specific compute engines, the hardware to enable these inflections, you're gonna be at a huge disadvantage, a huge disadvantage. And again, as we talk to companies through the ecosystem, I meet the leaders of R&D for our big customers, whether it's Intel or TSMC or Samsung. I probably see them all maybe two or three times every quarter but we also meet people through the ecosystem that are driving many of these major changes. So all of these aspects of parallelism, high-speed memory and low precision is also very very very important in terms of the implications to what that engine looks like in the future. Very different than the computing and the architectures that are out there today for servers, very very very very very different architectures. Okay, so this is a map of some of the different technologies related to what those architectures will look like on the edge, on the cloud. We've done a lot of work looking at edge, cloud, different workloads around video, audio, text. We're not gonna share all of those insights here today but as I said earlier, there's more money going into startups now over the last 18 months than we've seen in the last 18 years. And all of the big tech companies really focused on how they build those computing engines to process the data faster for low latency and more power efficient. So again when we talk to companies through the ecosystem, those 1000 times improvement in performance per watt is really really really important. So how many people have been in a data center? Okay, when you go into a data center, you have hard drives, you had saw solid-state drives, you open a rack. What you see if you have a solid-state server, you have a fraction of the space that is consumed with hard drives. So that's why you see that market. Again that markets growing very fast, where does the cost go in a data center? When you think about the cost, what drives the cost? Power consumption, cooling, all of those types of things. Maybe 80% of the cost are from those factors. So you look at that explosion of data that I showed earlier. The explosion of data, the fact that data will be critical to transforming many industries in the future. And then again, when we talk to many companies, they're driving tremendous improvements in performance per watt. The other thing that we've done a lot of modeling of many different devices, the different workloads, what does it mean relative to power consumption? And when you look at this data centric economy in the future, the other part of this that's not so obvious is the impact on global warming. So again if we're generate $10 trillion of economic value, and there's tremendous economic value, whether it's the United States or China or any place across the globe, that power efficiency is a really critical metric. And so when I talk to some technology companies, they say power efficiency, some parts of their market is inelastic. Again because the the data, the value of the data, the insights the transformation of those industries are so fundamental and so valuable driving power efficiency and that gets back to the workload specific computing and new computing architectures that will look completely different than what we see today. That's a big battleground over the next five, 10 years, huge battleground. And again it has also to do with sustainability. You know, do we leave this world in a better place than we came into it? So it's not only generating trillions of dollars of economic value but also has a meaningful impact on future generations. Again that part I think also people don't understand how important this is for the future. Okay, so, what is the perfect storm? You have trillions of dollars of economic value, industries being fundamentally transformed at the same time Moore's law is slowing down. How many people here believe Moore's law is slowing down? How about anybody that doesn't believe that? One person, (laughs). Okay, (mumbles). - [Man] Not ending. - Not ending, not ending. So let me go through this. I mean this is really really really fundamental. The classic Moore's law, the old PlayBook is slowing down. I think there's tremendous evidence of that. And then the question is, what are we gonna do about that? How are we gonna enable power efficiency differently in the future? So this was Gordon Moore, I think 1965, coming up with the first foundation for Moore's law. And then really, it's doubling every two years. So you can see for many many many years, we stayed on this curve. And if you think about Moore's law, the impact it's had on our lives just really really tremendous impact on every single one of us. But what you see this playbook is slowing down. It's starting to roll over in the future. So recent data points, again all this is public information, Moore's law is slowing down with the current playbook. And then other evidence here in terms of Moore's law slowing down. So that really is, that is a tremendous challenge but it's also a tremendous opportunity because the old playbook again, I work with all the leading technology companies. I meet with the leaders of R&D for all of these companies. Again, we'll meet for three hours, go on a whiteboard and start penciling many things out, Applied Materials, every single chip in the world is made with applied materials. All of your devices, your mobile devices, your TVs, all the screens, Applied is part of all of that too. So we're deeply in the materials, Applied Materials, we have the broadest materials portfolio of any company in the world. And because we're building those future devices, I could pull out my cell phone and I can show you what future transistor structures look like. You know, relative to things we're writing on those whiteboards and how we're gonna wire the devices for the future. But I deeply deeply deeply deeply believe the old playbook is not going to work and we are at a fundamental point in the industry. There's zero question about that. The other thing, if you think about A.I., the things I talked about earlier, the parallelism, the low precision, the storage, the future of computing is going to be very different than in the past. So the things that drive the foundation of these inflections will also change in very very fundamental ways. So you have Moore's Law slowing down, "Classic" 2D shrinking. So this is what most people think about as Moore's Law, there's no question that that's slowing down. But the other factor that's super important is time. How you trade off all of those different factors when you're driving the technology roadmap. So again, we've been working engaging with many many different technology companies through the ecosystem is on this new playbook. And Mike Maybury, I was at the A.I. design forum recently giving a keynote speech, Mike is running all technology for Intel. And we were back to back at this A.I. design forum conference, it's almost like we were sharing materials. What mike said is, the next decade is all about materials innovation. And so when you look at how we drive technology for the future, new architectures, if you think about the future of computing, storage, connecting everything together, that's going to change in fundamental ways, that roadmap I showed earlier in terms of device architectures for workload specific types of computing, that will change, there's no question. New structures and 3D structures are fundamental. I'll give an example of that here in just a minute. New materials, new ways to shrink and then heterogeneous integration, being able to take different aspects of those architectures and connect them together, low power, high speed on a single package. That's also going to be fundamental, relative to how we drive the technology roadmap in the future. And then this is more on the different types of computing, general purpose computing versus application-specific computing. And certainly you see GPUs today growing at a very very fast pace in this A.I. world. But again, there's no question that the future you cannot take the technology of today forward and enable this future data economy. You're not going to get to a 1000 times improvement and performance per watt taking what is there today. So there has to be fundamental innovation. So one example of an old playbook, 2D NAND. So, what was the playbook? It's like single story ranch houses, you pack them closer and closer and closer together in two dimensions, you ran out of electrons. And it became very expensive. So what happened? Went vertical, and really again we're engaged with all of the technology companies driving these new memory technologies. The sky's the limit on how far you can go in terms of vertical scaling. So if you think about performance endurance, you think about cost per bit scaling, that's absolutely crucial to enable the future. 2D to 3D NAND, was a great example of a new playbook, fundamental new playbook that was different than what we had been doing for decades. And I guarantee you, this will happen across all of the different device types. There's zero question in my mind that you'll see fundamental innovation across these different technology architectures. One of the things that I presented at the A.I. design forum, it gets back to how you build new structures. With a transistor when it's turned off, you don't want any power leaking across that transistor. And fundamentally, what's happening is we're constantly shrinking those transistors. And as you shrink them, two times improvement every two years with the classic kind of Moore's law, you also increase leakage current. So what happens if you look at a poly gate, this you have the technology nodes across the top, you have equivalent oxide thickness across the bottom and then you have leakage on this other y-axis. So as you're shrinking that length, power is leaking out of that transistor. So what happened? We went to High-k Metal Gate, 10,000 times improvement in leakage current. How did we do that? It was materials innovation, building a different structure for that device. And then what we talked about at the A.I. design forum, from Applied Materials, we've also developed a new technology. Actually, when I was at that A.I. design forum, I labeled it "Top-secret" but you know, again, the same thing, how do we build that structure differently so we can enable orders of magnitude improvement in leakage currents? It gets back to fundamental Material Science which I know many of you here are involved in Material Science. This is the best time ever for Material Science, I would say that. How many by the way, how many people here are involved in Material Science? So you are the future heroes, all of you people that are our driving Material Science. This is really the foundation, it really is the foundation. And then you look at shrinking. Certainly, you have shrinking in terms of feature size but also in many different parts of device. Not only my shrinking in two dimensions, that's one way that we do and we drive a classic Moore's law, I have to line things up. So if I have a Volta chip, I have a 100 billion or hundreds of billions of connections I have to line up. So I can do that top-down with the way we do it today but what everybody would love to do is have fully self aligned processes where I build that structure in a completely different way where the hundreds of billions of connections are all 100% fully self aligned. Again that gets back to materials innovation and building these chips in fundamentally different ways. Packaging, packaging is another area in how I connect the different parts of my computing together, the storage, the communications. And this is going to be one of the most impactful areas relative to how we drive power efficiency in the future. So this within the semiconductor industry is very critical. If you look at the Volta chip, this is Volta chip here surrounded by high bandwidth memory, packaging alone makes a big difference in speed and power consumption. And there will be tremendous innovation beyond what we see today in packaging. And then this is an analogy relative to "Von Neumann" type of thinking and "Neuromorphic" thinking. So, you know thinking about how do we connect our ecosystem in different ways. And what I've told a lot of people is, in the last year, I've learned more about what I didn't know than my whole life. So I actually think that's a great thing. You know, you always wanna be learning at any point but if you think about this whole ecosystem, what we found is that within Applied Materials, if we've brought people from different aspects of the ecosystem, we brought people that are some of the best in the world for device integration. Driving technology nodes for some of the leading companies are part of Applied Materials. We've brought people from the design community. And connecting all this together, it enables you to see how we can do things differently. It enables you to see how I build structures differently. And so, you know, go back to this example I had earlier on the orders of magnitude 1000 times improvement in leakage current. You know, when I talk to some of the very large technology companies, they ask why are we able to do that? They work in their labs for years and they get three X. How can we do a 1000X? It gets back to you have to think about the problems from a different perspective. It really gets back to that. And the other thing I would say that's really important and this is also I would encourage all of the students that are here, it gets back to fundamentals around whatever you're doing. First principles thinking. Really going back to the fundamentals, not incrementally improving whatever is there today, fundamental innovation also comes from connecting things in unique ways. And that's also what I would say here as we talk to companies all through this ecosystem, the pull for innovation is stronger than it's ever been. The pull for fundamental change. When you're in a situation where Moore's law has slown down, classical Moore's law is slower. If it takes you five years to get a device out versus two years, that has an enormous impact, an enormous enormous impact. Some of these companies are spending $15 billion per year in capital expenses, $15 billion. So you talk about 30 billion versus 75 billion, I think we'd all agree that's a lot of money. And it really is about how you enable this new playbook and how you enable this trillions of dollars future. And connecting differently is really really really fundamental. Thinking differently is also fundamental. So within Applied, one of the things that we've been driving is this concept of materials to systems 10 times faster. Materials to systems 10 times faster. It gets back to that new playbook. How do I enable the playbook differently? And if you look through this whole ecosystem, there are some incredible startup companies in every aspect of this. When you think about analog design for instance which is very very very difficult, many many many aspects of packaging design, how I build the chips, what are those future to look like, tremendous innovation that's happening. And all of those innovators, all of those people that are thinking differently, they're going to enable this future. So again Applied, 10 times faster materials to systems. So we've been making investments. Certainly we have the Maydan Technology Center. Well, we have the most advanced capabilities for semiconductor materials. And there are many capabilities that we have at the Maydan Technology Center that don't exist in any customer lab or any other lab in the world. When I talked about some of those innovations about how you self-aligned structures or how you build different kinds of transistor structures. We have unique capabilities there. The materials in engineering technology accelerator, we announced a $600 million investment. Again, that's also connecting with all of these innovators, with all of these startup companies enabling these new structures in new ways. And then for us, when we looked at integrated material solutions, we're also benchmarking speed. How much faster can we drive this innovation, it's fundamental, the speed of innovation is fundamental. So by putting some of these capabilities together, we're able to go with some part three times faster, another part two times faster, the speed of innovation is a huge focus within Applied Materials. So we're making investments in many many areas throughout that ecosystem. So I think this may be the last one for me. Yeah, really, again I just can't emphasize enough, I'm a lucky person, I am a very lucky person. You know, throughout my career, I've been involved in many many many exciting innovations. You know, earlier in my career, I worked in fabs for six years. I was working with Bell Labs and I was actually a Litho Section manager at AT&T many years ago. I was involved in small team of people that built a very disruptive inspection tool that became really a huge inflection for KLA in the industry for inline wafer inspection. Many many, I've met worked on maybe a 100, more than a 100 different projects in my life. And I still love engineering, more than anything. I really really love driving innovation. And in our company I'm driving projects personally across the entire company that are enormously enabling. So I love this and I would say for every one of you, you're at a point in time where science technology will be at the foundation of profound changes in our lives and it's just so so so exciting. So thank you very much and now I'm ready for questions. (audience applauding) - Thanks very much Gary. We have time for some questions and we'd like to give preference to students first if possible. If you could stand up and say your name and your major before asking your a question, that'd be great, okay. - [Laurence] Hi, my name is Laurence Yan, I'm a math major at UC Berkeley. I had a question specifically about what Applied Materials primarily works on in terms of like, what makes you the most money currently, I guess? - What makes us the most money currently? (audience laughing) So last year I think we did, I don't know it was 18 billion something like that, our business is broken down into semiconductor equipment. So we're the leading semiconductor equipment company in the world and we have the by far the broadest portfolio of materials in the semiconductor industry. We have display technologies. Every single display, all of your mobile devices, all of your televisions, even the foldable stuff that's new. You know, we're involved with all of those companies that are building those consumer devices, we meet with them on a monthly basis on both the semiconductor and on the display side. And then the other part is service for us but really it's semiconductor and display. And then, we're also again materials innovation is at the foundation of many inflections life sciences, AR, VR devices for the future for industrial applications, for education, for gaming, for the future social media. So we're engaged with big technology companies in many many many different areas. Today the biggest focus for us is semiconductor and display technologies. - [Ashan] Good afternoon, my name is Asha Travesti, I'm a Material Science and Engineering major. So like throughout your talk, you discussed how because of the advent and evolution of A.I. and Big data we need more advanced semiconductors and better materials in general. Do you think that you could specifically use like Big Data and Machine Learning to drive semiconductor innovation and in and of itself, like use these techniques? - Yeah absolutely, so around using machine learning, absolutely, there's no question. Relative to the speed of innovation, we're driving a huge program within Applied Materials right now that we're focused how we move 10 times faster in terms of materials to systems and how we connect through the ecosystem. So we're using machine learning and fundamental ways to accelerate the speed and performance success rate through the company. So that's a huge huge huge focus. And when we look at startup companies, certainly, they're going at the problems in a completely different way. So they're not, you know, they're looking at how they disrupt some of the aspects of the ecosystem. And absolutely machine learning is a key aspect of that where we can go many many times faster and much better, there's no question. - [Catherine] Hi, my name is Catherine and I am an undergraduate here studying computer science. And I was a little bit interested in the sustainability and environmental implications in all these semiconductors. Okay, like the implications on the environment going forward, so how does your company in the industry in general kind of like think about the environmental implications and also about like this sustainable sourcing of materials used in semiconductors. - Yeah so, I think you can think about it on different levels from a sustainability standpoint. Certainly, we're very focused on our carbon footprint, we use solar, we use wind, they're just fundamentally and for supplying power for different facilities within Applied Materials. We look at the consumption for all of our tools and we're making really tremendous improvements in terms of consumption of power and different materials inside our systems. So, in some cases we're improving by 70%, so that's a huge focus from a design standpoint. The other thing I talked about that I will be talking more about may be in six to nine months is relative to when you think about the data economy, the explosion of data, data being worth $10 trillion, that transition is inevitable, it is inevitable. It's inevitable here, China, every place across the globe. But I think one thing people don't understand is what is the impact of all that power consumption in this data centric economy. So I think that, certainly from an economic standpoint improving performance per watt by a 1000 times is super important but it has a tremendous sustainability impact. Not many people understand how important that is. So again, we hit it from all of those different perspectives. - [Nick] Hi, my name is Nick Palmer, I'm an Econ major. And first, thank you very much for coming and everyone else from the Applied Materials team. So for my very limited knowledge of the semiconductor industry, it seems like the semiconductor industry has always been built on a couple of other industries, like you've aligned across the PC industry now on mobile compute but you're saying that with IoT and A.I., you're gonna be in every industry. So my question is how do these semiconductors and companies end up being very very successful spread over multiple industries? Is this gonna be the ones with the best ecosystems or is it going to still be very tech and hardware driven? - So it's a great question. So if you look at the semiconductor industry, you went from PC Enterprise, a computer on your desktop and that's really what drove the industry. So you had a certain level of investment, you had a certain cycle that was waiting for a operating system upgrade, that's really what drove the industry. Then you go to mobile social media and fundamentally the industry was at another level and much more pervasive. It's not a computer on your desktop. Every one of us have mobile devices. We're capturing our memories every day, we're connected to each other every day and also that cycle was different. It wasn't waiting for the operating system every holiday season, you have a cycle. So it's the battle, whether it's Chinese New Year, singles day, you know, Christmas. All of those things are really driving consumption. So when you look at tech companies, they have to be ready every year, every year. Not waiting for an operating system upgrade. And then you go to the future, what does it mean for the future? Again, I just deeply believe and we're connected to many companies and all of these ecosystems that industries will be fundamentally transformed and technology and data will be at the foundation of those transformations. So then it becomes very very pervasive, its pervasive across all of those different industries and will have an incredible impact on the lives of everybody. So the winners are gonna be the companies that every time you have a major inflection, there are winners and losers. And certainly in this A.I. Big Data future, there will be very large iconic companies that will be losers, there's zero question about that. So it's really how you position yourself in those inflections? And I also talked about, you have to think differently. We're not gonna get there on a linear path. The future of computing is gonna be different. I think it's really important how people connect together. The cultures of companies, the individuals, inside the company across the ecosystem, how you connect and how you think differently to enable those inflections, very very very very very important. Companies that don't do that will go away or be much smaller. - [Parth] Hello, I'm parth, second year Electro Engineering, Computer Science major. And I wanted to ask bit more specific about like which specific silicon technologies that you've seen developed in the last few years, are you most excited for when you think of the biggest impact in the next few years? - Yeah, you know I talked about, in the last few years, probably the biggest change we've seen is in 2D to 3D to end. So that's very, it's just fundamental. If you look at cost per bid and the performance of the 3D NAND device, it's totally totally different than what you've seen in the past. Going forward, you're gonna see that same thing happening across many devices. I don't know if I wanna be too specific about what those are going to look like. But if you think about a future A.I. server with a compute engine, it's not gonna look like it looks like now. I talked about some of the drivers for that compute engine in the future, very different than what's there today. And then storage, how you connect it all together is call also going to be very very different than what you see today. And so it falls into the general categories of those five things I talked about earlier. (man speaking off the microphone) - [Avlin] Hi, I'm Avlin, a second year Material Science major as well like him. So as you decrease the amount of energy that you use to switch your transistors and your storage and things, you kind of inherently, from a thermodynamics perspective, decrease like the stability of that state, right? So how do you ensure that you can maintain these decreases in energy and still have like a long-lasting device 'cause you don't wanna like put stuff on your storage and then like go back to it a month later and it's gone. So, how do you do that? - Well, you know, what I would say is that these technical challenges are really what make you a lot of money. (audience laughing) Absolutely, you're absolutely correct. You know, if you think about analog computing, I have all these different weights and there are lots of aspects of analog computing that are great relative to speed and power consumption but they also have disadvantages. So, what you're talking about is really fundamental. When you think about the the attributes I talked about earlier and how you build those future structures, that's really at the heart of the challenge because there is no free lunch and to get where you need to go for the future, you need to drive innovation. Now, you know, the good thing for us as Applied is the broadest deepest materials innovation company in the world and we also have an analytical process control technology. So when you think about stability, repeatability, across billions of elements, all of those things become much much much more critical. So again that is the fundamental trade-off and challenge. And if you look at a lot of the startup companies, I had that kind of winding road map, there earlier, that's where you see a lot of startups happening with those different kinds of architectures and you see a lot of large technology companies investing in those future architectures. It doesn't mean that some aspects of this will change overnight because there is an ecosystem that's built around certain architectures but there is also zero question in my mind, five, 10 years from now, it's gonna look completely different than it was today. But those technology trade-offs are also a lot of fun. Solving those things are a tremendous amount of fun. - I think this is gonna need to be our last question for time. - [Lechin] Hi, thank you Gary and thank you for that nice talk. And I'm Lechin from fifth year PhD in making mechanical engineering. And firstly I would really thank you for the talk and also then, I'm sorry apply the material and then research. (audience laughing) - That wasn't intentional, was it? - [Lechin] We have research project with both companies. So thank you for support-- - Do you have there, I wanna see it. (audience laughing) - [Lechin] Alright, so having (mumbles) if there's collaboration with both companies. - Yeah. - [Lechin] But yeah, thank you for support. So what's your vision on this type of business going on? So I think there's no question that AR VR is going to be a big device. There's zero question about that. Really, it gets back to what we focus on our tipping points around affordability, user experience and scale. So you know, if you look at... We also work with all the companies building TVs. So if you look at new TV technology, there's a tipping point in adoption below $1,000. So if you look at the the elasticity of demand, it's dramatically higher as you hit those tipping points. So you know certainly if you think about industrial applications for servicing or manufacturing, education is a great application, gaming, you know, that you're gonna have some hard core, you know, some special applications where that some of the trade-offs for affordability or user experience may not be as critical but forth over time understanding that affordability, the bill of materials, how it breaks down, how do you enable the tipping point on affordability is important. And the same thing is on user experience because again the devices that you see today are not anywhere close to what they'll be two three years from now. And then also you need to have scale so you can manufacture those devices repeatedly, hundreds of millions per year. You know again, so relative to hitting those tipping points, 100% confidence that will happen, it will be a transition over some number of years to hit each one of those tipping points. And the thing I would say for all of you, may be my last thing I'll say here, again really getting back to any business you're in, understanding the first principles, understanding what enables those tipping points. And you know for me, when we're going through any technology project, I wanna understand, tell me the science, understand all the way down to the fundamentals. And that's where I would say for all the students, understanding the science and the fundamentals is at the foundation. So I would just encourage you. And I think that relative to where we're at in the world today, it's never been more important to understand the fundamental science to enable the tipping points, to enable whether it's a in AR VR or the future of computing. That fundamental science is really really at the foundation. So we talked about that, it applied and we go through products, projects. So again, it's getting back to all of those fundamentals in any one of these different markets looking at the the performance, the cost. All of those kinds of things are really really at the foundation. Okay, so thank you so much Gary. Thank you so much Gary. (audience applauding) So as a small token of our appreciation, our students would like to present you with a small gift, Berkeley Engineering jacket. - Oh, wow, thank you. (audience applauding) - I'd like to thank Robotics at Berkeley again and see you... Oh, don't forget to pick up your virtual reality glasses and go bears. Thank you again for coming. (audience applauding) 