  I'm Stephanie Essin and this is IDZ Weekly. This time, we're coming at you with a game development story. A small, one week assignment that started in a college classroom, that spawned a five year development journey, a new studio, and a design philosophy to go along with it. Xing: The Land Beyond, came from the minds of then students, John Torkington and Koriel Venus Kruer, in 2012. As they were working on their individual class projects, Kruer recalls that she was creating a tower, while Torkington was working on an island setting. As they looked at what the other was building, they realized that both projects had things the other lacked. They complemented each other. That's when they decided to combine projects. The professor took notice and urged them to submit the game to a local game competition. Within a few weeks, the duo had turned a level concept into a four level game, the first version of Xing. The Xing prototype made it to the group of 10 finalists, despite its short development time. They didn't stop there though. They continued making improvements to the game for its full release. The game developed into an exploration of the afterlife. Where players can jump into the lives of the departed and wander through memories and thoughts, all while solving puzzles. This amazing concept for the game got backed by a Kickstarter campaign and their goals became more lofty. They wanted the game to be playable in virtual reality. At that point, the developers formed a real studio, White Lotus Interactive. The game still needed a lot of work and the team didn't have a clear timeline on when it was going to be done. Kruer explains, "In the beginning, and through the next couple of years, we were constantly promoting it. But we didn't have an answer for people. We had created all this hype back in 2013 and 2014, so by the time 2017 rolled around, we had that audience fall-off. We lost the momentum we had created." But they didn't let that stop them. They found momentum and kept the audience going. Perhaps it's because of the uniqueness of the game. It has no combat, it's low stress, and relies on striking visuals to entertain. With this story based approach, they were able to launch Xing on Steam, Oculus Rift, and HTC Vive last year. I hope you're all feeling inspired to reach those game development goals. Read the article in the links to get the full picture of their journey. And check out White Lotus Interactive. See you next Monday. 