BUSINESS OverviewDXC, a Nevada corporation, is the world's leading independent, end-to-end IT services company, serving nearly 6,000 private and public-sector clients from a diverse array of industries across 70 countries. The company's technology independence, global talent and extensive partner network deliver transformative digital offerings and solutions that help clients harness the power of innovation to thrive on change. Businesses in today's complex and demanding business environment are increasingly seeking to integrate digital technology into every aspect of their business resulting in fundamental changes to how they operate and deliver value to their customers. We work with our clients to solve challenges in ways that maximize opportunity and minimize business risk. Our world-class talent becomes part of our clients’ teams, innovating with them, putting the right technology to work for their organizations and leading them through accelerating change to deliver new outcomes for their business. Our business strategy is supported by a framework that focuses on the following three pillars:•Help clients advance their digital transformations by decreasing IT infrastructure costs and reinvesting in innovation;•Invest in our people to nurture next-generation skills and leadership development; and•Deliver value by achieving results for our clients and stakeholders.History and DevelopmentDXC was formed on April 1, 2017, when Computer Sciences Corporation (“CSC”), Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE”), Everett SpinCo, Inc.(“Everett”), and New Everett Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Everett (“Merger Sub”), completed the strategic combination of CSC with the Enterprise Services business of HPE (“HPES”). The combination was accomplished through a series of transactions that included the transfer by HPE of HPES to Everett, spin-off by HPE of Everett on March 31, 2017, and the merger of Merger Sub with and into CSC on April 1, 2017 (the “HPES Merger”). At the time of the HPES Merger, Everett was renamed DXC, and as a result of the HPES Merger, CSC became a direct wholly owned subsidiary of DXC. DXC common stock began regular-way trading under the symbol “DXC” on the New York Stock Exchange on April 3, 2017. See Note 2 - "Acquisitions" for more information.USPS Separation and MergersOn October 11, 2017, DXC announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Perspecta Inc., Ultra First VMS Inc., Ultra Second VMS LLC, Ultra KMS Inc., Vencore Holding Corp. (“Vencore”), KGS Holding Corp (“KeyPoint”), The SI Organization Holdings LLC and KGS Holding LLC (the “Perspecta Merger Agreement”). The Perspecta Merger Agreement provides that DXC will spin off its U.S. public sector business, USPS, and combine it with Vencore and KeyPoint to form a separate, independent publicly traded company, Perspecta Inc., to serve U.S. public sector clients (collectively, the "USPS Separation and Mergers"). See "Segments and Services" below for more information about USPS.2Acquisitions and DivestituresIn addition to the HPES Merger, during fiscal 2018 we completed the acquisition of Tribridge Holdings LLC ("Tribridge"), an independent integrator of Microsoft Dynamics 365. The acquisition includes the Tribridge affiliate company, Concerto Cloud Services LLC. The combination of Tribridge with DXC extended our leadership in the Microsoft Dynamics 365 global systems integration business. Segments and ServicesOur reportable segments are Global Business Services ("GBS"), Global Infrastructure Services ("GIS") and United States Public Sector ("USPS"). Global Business ServicesGBS provides innovative technology solutions that help our clients address key business challenges and accelerate digital transformations tailored to each client’s industry and specific objectives. GBS offerings include:•Enterprise, Cloud Applications and Consulting. We provide industry, business process systems integration and technical delivery experience to maximize value from enterprise application portfolios. We also help clients accelerate their digital transformations and business results with industry, business, technology and complex integration services.•Application Services. Our comprehensive services help clients modernize, develop, test and manage their applications.•Analytics. Our portfolio of analytics services and robust partner ecosystem helps clients gain rapid insights and accelerate their digital transformation journeys.•Business Process Services. We provide seamless digital integration and optimization of front and back office processes, including our Agile Process Automation approach.•Industry Software and Solutions. Our industry-specific solutions enable businesses to quickly integrate technology, transform their operations and develop new ways of doing business. Our vertical-specific IP includes insurance, healthcare and life sciences, travel and transportation, and banking and capital markets solutions.Global Infrastructure ServicesGIS provides a portfolio of offerings that deliver predictable outcomes and measurable results, while reducing business risk and operational costs for clients. GIS offerings include:•Cloud and Platform Services. We help clients maximize their private cloud, public cloud and legacy infrastructures, as well as securely manage their hybrid environments.•Workplace and Mobility. Our workplace, mobility and Internet of Things ("IoT") services provide a consumer-like experience with enterprise security and instant connectivity for our clients.•Security. Our security solutions help predict attacks, proactively respond to threats, ensure compliance and protect data, applications, infrastructure and endpoints.3United States Public SectorUSPS delivers IT services and business solutions to all levels of government in the United States. USPS’s enterprise-based offerings and solutions for its U.S. government customers include: •Cloud, Platform and IT Outsourcing ("ITO") Services. Through our cloud, platform and ITO solutions, USPS is able to help its public sector clients transform to hybrid infrastructure and bridge private and public cloud environments into their legacy infrastructure. •Enterprise and Cloud Applications. Our applications services and program excellence solutions for its U.S. government customers covers four areas: application modernization and transformation; application development; testing and digital assurance; and application management.•Enterprise Security. Our enterprise security solutions include building security infrastructures into the fabric of U.S. government agencies’ digital enterprises.•Mobility and Workplace. We offer, through three primary focus areas, a full range of services for converged mobility and workplace management: (i) Mobile Enterprise Services allows clients to manage their mobile environment as a service with solutions for procurement, provisioning, refresh, proactive Enterprise Mobility Management (“EMM”), hardware and software support, security, and business usage analytics; (ii) Virtual Desktop and Application Services untethers data and desktop applications from physical user devices to give workforces and partners secure access to desktops, applications, and data from any device, anywhere; and (iii) Workplace Device Services transforms traditional workplace environments to deliver a comprehensive, secure, flexible and configurable environment that provides lightweight management of desktops, laptops and mobile. •Analytics. We offer a complete portfolio of analytics services such as analytics platforms, information governance, artificial intelligence and advisory services, to rapidly provide insights and accelerate our public sector customers’ digital transformation.On October 11, 2017, we announced our plan to spin off our USPS business. See "USPS Separation and Mergers" above.During fiscal 2018 our revenues mix by segment was as follows: See Note 18 - "Segment and Geographic Information" for additional information related to our reportable segments, including the disclosure of segment revenues, segment profit and financial information by geographic area.Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services directly to clients through our direct sales force, operating out of sales offices around the world. Our clients include commercial businesses of many sizes and in many industries and public sector enterprises. No individual customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues for fiscal 2018, 2017 or 2016. 4For fiscal 2018, the distribution of our revenues across geographies was as follows: For a discussion of risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this Annual Report.SeasonalityGeneral economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions occasionally experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We also experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our services. For example, contract awards are often tied to the timing of our clients' fiscal year-ends, and we also experience seasonality related to our own fiscal year-end selling activities. Competition The IT and professional services markets in which we compete are highly competitive and are not dominated by a single company or a small number of companies. A substantial number of companies offer services that overlap and are competitive with those we offer. In addition, the increased importance of offshore labor centers has brought several foreign-based firms into competition with us.Our competitors include:•large multinational enterprises that offer some or all of the services and solutions that we do;•smaller companies that offer focused services and solutions similar to those that we offer;•offshore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that sell directly to end-users; •solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific industry segment or service area; and•in-house functions of corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside IT services provider.5The principal methods of competition in the markets for our solutions and services include:•vision and strategic advisory ability;•digital services capabilities;•performance and reliability;•responsiveness to client needs;•competitive pricing of services;•technical and industry expertise;•reputation and experience; •quality of solutions and services; and•financial stability and strong corporate governance.Our ability to obtain new business and retain existing business is dependent upon the following:•technology, industry and systems know-how with an independent perspective on the best client solutions across software, hardware, and service providers;•ability to offer improved strategic frameworks and technical solutions;•investments in our digital services and solutions;•focus on responsiveness to customer needs, quality of services and competitive prices;•successful management of our relationships with leading strategic and solution partners in hardware, networking, cloud, applications and software;•project management experience and capabilities; •end-to-end spectrum of IT and professional services we provide; and•financial stability and strong corporate governance.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to protect our business interests. While our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, we do selectively seek patent protection for certain inventions likely to be incorporated into products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across the patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our solutions and services and enhancing our freedom of action to sell solutions and services in markets in which we choose to participate. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any business segment.Additionally, we own or have rights to various trademarks, logos, service marks, and trade names that are used in the operation of our business. We also own or have the rights to copyrights that protect the content of our products and other proprietary materials. In addition to developing our intellectual property portfolio, we license intellectual property rights from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and plan to continue to grant to others licenses under our intellectual property rights when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.Environmental RegulationOur operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position, and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. However, we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, or if new environmental legislation is passed which impacts our business.6EmployeesAs of March 31, 2018, we employed approximately 150,000 employees and had offices and operations in 70 countries. Available InformationWe use our corporate website, www.dxc.technology, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including detailed company information, financial news, SEC filings, Annual Reports, historical stock information and links to a recent earnings call webcast. DXC’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Code of Business Conduct" are also available on our website. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report.  Any materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.7Executive Officers of the RegistrantName Age Year First Elected as Officer Term as an Officer Position Held With the Registrant as of the filing date Family RelationshipJ. Michael Lawrie 64 2017 Indefinite Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer NonePaul N. Saleh 61 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer NoneWilliam L. Deckelman, Jr. 60 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary NoneStephen Hilton 47 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President, Global Delivery Organization NoneJoanne Mason 50 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer NoneNeil A. Manna 55 2017 Indefinite Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller andPrincipal Accounting Officer NoneBusiness Experience of Executive OfficersJ. Michael Lawrie has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of DXC and as a member of the Board of Directors of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Lawrie previously served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of CSC. Mr. Lawrie joined CSC as President and Chief Executive Officer on March 19, 2012, and as a member of its Board of Directors in February 2012. On December 15, 2015, Mr. Lawrie was appointed chairman of the CSC Board of Directors. Prior to joining CSC, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of U.K.-based Misys plc, a leading global IT solutions provider to the financial services industry, from November 2006 to March 2012. Mr. Lawrie also served as the Executive Chairman of Allscripts-Misys Healthcare Solutions, Inc., from October 2008 to August 2010. From 2005 to 2006, Mr. Lawrie was a general partner with ValueAct Capital, a San Francisco-based private investment firm. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of Siebel Systems, Inc., an international software and solutions company, from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Lawrie also spent 27 years with IBM where he rose to Senior Vice President and Group Executive, responsible for sales and distribution of all IBM products and services worldwide. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Lawrie was General Manager for IBM’s business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, which included operations in 124 countries and 90,000 employees. Prior to that, Mr. Lawrie served as General Manager of Industries for IBM’s business operations in Asia Pacific, based in Tokyo. Mr. Lawrie is a Trustee of Drexel University, Philadelphia. We believe Mr. Lawrie’s knowledge of the IT solutions industry and many years of experience as the Chief Executive Officer of DXC and CSC make him well-qualified to serve as a member of our board of directors.Paul N. Saleh has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Saleh previously served as executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer of CSC. Mr. Saleh joined CSC as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on May 23, 2012. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Saleh served as the Chief Financial Officer of Gannett Co. from 2010 to 2012. Prior to his tenure at Gannett Co., from 2008 to 2010, Mr. Saleh was a Managing Partner at Menza Partners, an operational and financial advisory group focusing on media, telecommunications and technology industries. Prior to that, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Sprint Nextel Communications from 2001 to 2007 and as Interim Chief Executive Officer of Sprint Nextel until 2008. He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walt Disney International where he also held various other senior positions from 1997 to 2001.William L. Deckelman, Jr. has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Deckelman previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of CSC. Mr. Deckelman joined CSC in January 2008 and served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2008 to 2012, and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel from 2012 to August 2014. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Deckelman served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Affiliated Computer Services Inc. from 2000 to 2008, and served as a director from 2000 to 2003, holding various executive positions there since 1989.8Stephen Hilton has served as Executive Vice President, Global Delivery Organization of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Hilton previously served as the Executive Vice President and General Manager, Global Infrastructure Services of CSC. Mr. Hilton joined CSC in 2015. Prior to joining CSC, from 2006 to 2014, Mr. Hilton served as Managing Director and Chief Information Officer, Technology Infrastructure Services, and as Head of Corporate Real Estate & Services at Credit Suisse. Prior to his tenure at Credit Suisse, Mr. Hilton served from 2003 to 2006 in an Information Technology leadership role at JP Morgan Chase. Prior to that, from 1996 to 2003, Mr. Hilton worked at CSC as a service delivery executive, technical architect and business development/sales director and was based in London, Singapore and New York.Joanne Mason has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Ms. Mason served as Chief Human Resource Officer and Vice President of CSC since March 2015. Ms. Mason joined CSC in March 2012 as Chief of Staff and Head of Change Management and Execution Office. Prior to joining CSC, from October 2006 to March 2012, Ms. Mason served as Chief of Staff and Operation Director at Misys plc. Ms. Mason previously served in various management roles at Zouk Capital from 2004 to 2006, Lendlease Group from 2002 to 2004 and Energis Communications Ltd. from 1999 to 2002.Neil A. Manna has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Manna previously served as Principal Accounting Officer, Vice President and Controller of CSC. Mr. Manna joined CSC on June 7, 2016. Prior to joining CSC, he served as the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of CA, Inc. from December 2008 to June 3, 2016. He served as Principal Accounting Officer and Vice President of Worldwide Accounting for RealNetworks, Inc. from July 2007 to November 2008. He served as the Chief Financial Officer of TimePlus Systems, LLC (formerly TimePlus, Inc.) from November 2005 to April 2007. From February 2000 to October 2005, he served as a Director of Finance for the Payroll Division of Intuit and Controller of Employee Matters, Inc. From July 1990 to February 2000 he served as the Principal Accounting Officer, Vice President of Finance, Controller and Treasurer of CHI Energy, Inc. He is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting and a Master’s degree in Business Administration.9