BUSINESS OverviewDXC Technology Company helps global companies across the entire enterprise technology stack, running their mission critical systems and operations while modernizing IT, optimizing data architectures, and ensuring security and scalability across public, private and hybrid clouds. The DXC's enterprise technology stack includes:•Analytics and Engineering •Applications•Cloud and Security•IT Outsourcing ("ITO")DXC combines decades of experience running mission-critical systems with the latest digital innovations to deliver better business outcomes and new levels of performance, competitiveness and experiences for our customers and their stakeholders. DXC invests in three key drivers of growth: People, Customers and Operational Execution. The Company's global scale, talent and innovation platforms serve more than 6,000 private and public-sector customers in approximately 70 countries.History and DevelopmentDXC, a Nevada corporation, was formed on April 1, 2017, by the merger of CSC and HPES (the "HPES Merger").Acquisitions and DivestituresDuring fiscal 2020, DXC completed the acquisition of Luxoft Holding, Inc. (the "Luxoft Acquisition") a global scale digital service provider whose offerings encompass strategic consulting, custom software development, and digital solution engineering services. We also completed other acquisitions during fiscal 2020 to complement our offerings and to provide opportunities for future growth. See Note 2 - "Acquisitions" for further information.2On March 9, 2020, DXC entered into a definitive agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") to sell (the “HHS Sale”) our U.S. State and Local Health and Human Services (“State & Local HHS”) business to Veritas Capital Fund Management, L.L.C., for $5.0 billion in cash. The State and Local HHS business is an end-to-end provider of technology enabled, mission critical solutions that are fundamental to the administration and operations of health programs throughout the United States. It is accounted for as part of the Global Business Services segment. Known for its reliable delivery of highly complex systems for public sector clients, the business facilitates performance efficiencies and improved outcomes for a wide range of stakeholders in the healthcare ecosystem. The transaction is expected to close by September 2020, but no later than December 2020, subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including (i) the absence of a material adverse effect on the HHS Business or the ability of DXC to consummate the HHS Sale and (ii) HHS customer contracts that generated 87.5% or more of the aggregate revenue for all HHS customer contracts for the nine month period ending December 31, 2019 are able to be conveyed at the closing of the HHS Sale without receipt of additional customer consents. The sale is not subject to any financing condition or shareholder approval. The Purchase Agreement contains certain termination rights, including (i) the right of either party to terminate the Purchase Agreement if the transactions contemplated thereby is not consummated on or before December 31, 2020, (ii) the right of either party to terminate if a governmental authority has issued a final and non-appealable order prohibiting or enjoining the transactions contemplated thereby (subject to certain limitations) and (iii) the right of either party to terminate if the other party breaches its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements contained in the Purchase Agreement to such an extent that the conditions to Closing would not be satisfied (subject to certain limitations). In addition, the Purchaser will be obligated to pay to the Company a termination fee of $250 million in cash upon the termination of the Purchase Agreement under specified conditions. Following the transaction close, DXC will retain its remaining healthcare practice, servicing customers across the healthcare continuum, including payers, providers and life sciences firms.Segments and ServicesOur reportable segments are Global Business Services ("GBS") and Global Infrastructure Services ("GIS").Global Business ServicesGBS provides innovative technology solutions that help our customers address key business challenges and accelerate digital transformations tailored to each customer’s industry and specific objectives. GBS enterprise technology stack offerings include:•Analytics and Engineering. Our portfolio of analytics services and extensive partner ecosystem help customers gain rapid insights, automate operations, and accelerate their digital transformation journeys. We provide software engineering and solutions that enable businesses to run and manage their mission-critical functions, transform their operations and develop new ways of doing business.•Applications. We use advanced technologies and methods to accelerate the creation, modernization, delivery and maintenance of high-quality, secure applications allowing customers to innovate faster while reducing risk, time to market, and total cost of ownership, across industries. Our vertical-specific IP includes solutions for insurance; banking and capital markets; and automotive, among others.GBS offerings also includes business process services, which include digital integration and optimization of front and back office processes, and agile process automation. This helps companies to reduce cost, and minimize business disruption, human error, and operational risk while improving customer experiences. 3Global Infrastructure ServicesGIS provides a portfolio of technology offerings that deliver predictable outcomes and measurable results, while reducing business risk and operational costs for customers. GIS enterprise stack elements include:•Cloud and Security. We help customers to rapidly modernize by adapting legacy apps to cloud, migrate the right workloads, and securely manage their multi-cloud environments. Our security solutions help predict attacks, proactively respond to threats, ensure compliance and protect data, applications and infrastructure. •IT Outsourcing. Our ITO services support infrastructure, applications, and workplace IT operations, including hardware, software, physical/virtual end-user devices, collaboration tools, and IT support services. We help customers securely optimize operations to ensure continuity of their systems and respond to new business and workplace demands, while achieving cost takeout, all with limited resources, expertise and budget.GIS offerings also include workplace and mobility services to fit our customer’s employee, business and IT needs from intelligent collaboration, modern device management, digital support services, Internet of Things ("IoT") and mobility services, providing a consumer-like, digital experience.See Note 19 - "Segment and Geographic Information" for additional information related to our reportable segments, including the disclosure of segment revenues, segment profit and financial information by geographic area.Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services to customers through our direct sales force, operating out of sales offices around the world. Our customers include commercial businesses of many sizes and in many industries and public sector enterprises. No individual customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues for fiscal 2020, 2019 or 2018. SeasonalityGeneral economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions occasionally experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We also experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our services. For example, contract awards are often tied to the timing of our customers' fiscal year-ends, and we also experience seasonality related to our own fiscal year-end selling activities. Competition The IT and professional services markets in which we compete are highly competitive and are not dominated by a single company or a small number of companies. A substantial number of companies offer services that overlap and are competitive with those we offer. In addition, the increased importance of offshore labor centers has brought several foreign-based firms into competition with us.Our competitors include:•large multinational enterprises that offer some or all of the services and solutions that we do;•smaller companies that offer focused services and solutions similar to those that we offer;•offshore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that sell directly to end-users; •solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific industry segment or service area; and•in-house functions of corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside IT services provider.4The principal methods of competition in the markets for our solutions and services include:•vision and strategic advisory ability;•digital services capabilities;•performance and reliability;•responsiveness to client needs;•competitive pricing of services;•technical and industry expertise;•reputation and experience; •quality of solutions and services; and•financial stability and strong corporate governance.Our ability to obtain new business and retain existing business is dependent upon the following:•technology, industry and systems know-how with an independent perspective on the best client solutions across software, hardware, and service providers;•ability to offer improved strategic frameworks and technical solutions;•investments in our digital services and solutions;•focus on responsiveness to customer needs, quality of services and competitive prices;•successful management of our relationships with leading strategic and solution partners in hardware, networking, cloud, applications and software;•project management experience and capabilities; •end-to-end spectrum of IT and professional services we provide; and•financial stability and strong corporate governance.5Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to protect our business interests. While our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, we do selectively seek patent protection for certain inventions likely to be incorporated into products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across the patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our solutions and services and enhancing our freedom of action to sell solutions and services in markets in which we choose to participate. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any business segment.Additionally, we own or have rights to various trademarks, logos, service marks, and trade names that are used in the operation of our business. We also own or have the rights to copyrights that protect the content of our products and other proprietary materials. In addition to developing our intellectual property portfolio, we license intellectual property rights from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and plan to continue to grant licenses to others under our intellectual property rights when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.Environmental RegulationOur operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position, and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. However, we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, or if new environmental legislation is passed which impacts our business.EmployeesAs of March 31, 2020, we employed approximately 138,000 employees and had offices and operations in approximately 70 countries. Available InformationWe use our corporate website, www.dxc.technology, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including detailed company information, financial news, SEC filings, Annual Reports, historical stock information and links to a recent earnings call webcast. DXC’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. They are also available through the SEC at www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html. Our corporate governance guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Code of Business Conduct" are also available on our website. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report.  6Information About Our Executive OfficersName Age Year First Elected as Officer Term as an Officer Position Held with the Registrant as of the filing date Family RelationshipMichael J. Salvino 54 2019 Indefinite President and Chief Executive Officer NonePaul N. Saleh 63 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer NoneWilliam L. Deckelman, Jr. 62 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary NoneMary E. Finch 50 2019 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer NoneEdward Ho 57 2018 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Co-Lead, Americas NoneJames R. Smith 52 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President, Digital Transformation and Customer Advocacy NoneVinod Bagal 54 2019 Indefinite Executive Vice President, Global Transformation NoneNeil A. Manna 57 2017 Indefinite Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller andPrincipal Accounting Officer NoneBusiness Experience of Executive OfficersMichael J. Salvino became the President and Chief Executive Officer of DXC in September 2019 and has been a member of the Board of Directors of DXC since May 2019. Prior to joining DXC, Mr. Salvino served as Managing Director of Carrick Capital Partners from 2016 to 2019. Prior to his tenure at Carrick, from 2009 to 2016, Mr. Salvino served as group chief executive of Accenture Operations, where he led a team of more than 100,000 consulting and outsourcing professionals focused on providing business process outsourcing, infrastructure, security and cloud services to deliver business value and drive productivity and digital improvements for clients. Prior to that, he held leadership roles in the HR outsourcing business at Hewitt Associates Inc. and as President of the Americas Region at Exult Inc. Mr. Salvino is a board member of the Atrium Health Foundation Board, the largest Healthcare system in the Carolinas, where he serves on the Investment Oversight Committee for both the hospital and the foundation.  Mr. Salvino graduated from Marietta College with a Bachelor of Science degree in industrial engineering. He serves on the Marietta College Board of Trustees and is Chair of its Investment Committee. Mr. Salvino is also a member of the Board of Visitors of the Duke University Pratt School of Engineering.Paul N. Saleh has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Saleh previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CSC. Mr. Saleh joined CSC as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2012. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Saleh served as the Chief Financial Officer of Gannett Co. from 2010 to 2012. Prior to his tenure at Gannett Co., from 2008 to 2010, Mr. Saleh was a Managing Partner at Menza Partners, an operational and financial advisory group focusing on media, telecommunications and technology industries. Prior to that, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Sprint Nextel Communications from 2001 to 2007 and as Interim Chief Executive Officer of Sprint Nextel until 2008. He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walt Disney International where he also held various other senior positions from 1997 to 2001. Mr. Saleh served as a Director of Perspecta Inc. ("Perspecta") from its inception in 2018 until 2019.William L. Deckelman, Jr. has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Deckelman previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of CSC. Mr. Deckelman joined CSC in January 2008 and served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2008 to 2012, and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel from 2012 to 2014. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Deckelman served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Affiliated Computer Services Inc. from 2000 to 2008, and served as a director from 2000 to 2003, holding various executive positions there since 1989.Mary E. Finch was appointed as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of DXC in December 2019. Ms. Finch previously served as Executive Vice President and CHRO of AECOM from 2015 to 2019. Prior to that, she served at Accenture as Senior Managing Partner from 2013 to 2015 and as Managing Director Human Resources, Business Partner Organization from 2001 to 2013, where she drove global delivery of HR services, overseeing operations supporting approximately 320,000 employees across 56 countries and multiple Accenture businesses. Ms. Finch also served as VP Human Resources of Abilizer Solutions Inc. from 2000 to 2001.7Edward Ho joined DXC in January 2018 and serves as Executive Vice President and Co-Lead, Americas. Mr. Ho previously served as the President of Global Payment Solutions of D+H Corporation, a publicly traded, leading, global financial technology company, from April 2015 to November 2017, where he was responsible for leadership of its digital, global transaction banking business. From January 2013 to April 2015, Mr. Ho served as the President and Chief Operating Officer of Fundtech Corporation, a private equity owned, leading provider of digital payments banking software and services, where he was responsible of sales, marketing, product management, development, professional services, customer support and certain general and administrative functions. Prior to his role at Fundtech, he served for nine years as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the capital markets division at Misys plc, a provider of banking, treasury, trading and risk management software solutions. Previously, he had been Chief Executive Officer and President of IQ Financial Systems, a developer and marketer of commercial lending and risk management software systems. Mr. Ho also spent 15 years as a banker with Bank of America, Bankers Trust and Deutsche Bank. James R. Smith serves as Executive Vice President, Digital Transformation and Customer Advocacy of DXC. Mr. Smith previously served as CSC's Executive Vice President and General Manager for GBS since he joined in August 2013. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Smith served as Chief Executive Officer of Motricity, a provider of cloud-based mobile enterprise and analytics solutions from 2009 to 2012. Under his direction, Motricity had a successful initial public offering on NASDAQ after completing a business model transformation and global expansion. Mr. Smith held various executive leadership positions at Avaya from 2001 to 2008, where he helped drive a 10-fold increase in the company’s market capitalization and reinvented a global software platform. Prior to that, he was an Associate Partner at Accenture.Vinod Bagal was appointed as Executive Vice President, Global Transformation of DXC in December 2019. Prior to joining DXC, Mr. Bagal served at Cognizant as Senior Vice President - Global Multi-Service Integration and North America Delivery and as Senior Vice President - Global Technology Consulting & Multi-Service Integration from 2014 to 2019, where he led the transformation of Cognizant's client delivery organization to position it for the next wave of professional services demands. From 1994 to 2014, Mr. Bagal held a series of leadership roles at Accenture.Neil A. Manna has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Manna previously served as Principal Accounting Officer, Vice President and Controller of CSC. Mr. Manna joined CSC in June 2016. Prior to joining CSC, he served as the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of CA, Inc. from December 2008 to June 3, 2016. He served as Principal Accounting Officer and Vice President of Worldwide Accounting for RealNetworks, Inc. from July 2007 to November 2008. He served as the Chief Financial Officer of TimePlus Systems, LLC (formerly TimePlus, Inc.) from November 2005 to April 2007. From February 2000 to October 2005, he served as a Director of Finance for the Payroll Division of Intuit and Controller of Employee Matters, Inc. From July 1990 to February 2000 he served as the Principal Accounting Officer, Vice President of Finance, Controller and Treasurer of CHI Energy, Inc. He is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting and a Master’s degree in Business Administration.8