 Gustavo Stolovitzky: we call our devices the nano DLD we expect that these device will allow us to identify cancer in patience that still have no symptoms. Dr. Carlos Cardo: healthy individuals don't allow us to care for them if we will be able to move a notch up and start questioning and start interogating to predict what may happen it will be one of the most interesting new ways to look at health care Gustavo: this technology is in its very early stages the way we envision it will work is, the patient goes to the doctor the doctor has this device, takes a sample explores the prescense of specific types of what is called bio markers that tell tale the cancer that we are trying to detect. Dr. Carlos Cardo: Pathology has rendered diagnoises mostly based on analysis of tissues but we have been moving to non invasive procedures. So we call that the liquid biopsy and we believe that it's a big part of the future not. only diagnoises but of health care. Gustavo: Exosome detection in liquid biopsy is a frontier we are contributing with our innovation by trying to detect those exosomes in fast and cheap way exosomes are little vessicles of the order of 20 to 100 nanometers which is the size that our devices can handle they are very very small and 100,000 times smaller than the diameter of a human hair. Ben Wunch: All the processes that you'd have to do to analyze disease and get a diagnosis in theory you could shrink that down to a microchip and do the same analysis that you would have to do with a whole lab or a hospital or special company, do it right on a chip. Gustavo: A pachinko machine is a machine in which you throw particles and they bounce randomly. in a nano pillar array, rather than 50 percent of the right 50 percent of the left they are picked to go in a direction so they would be bumping but more often than not the bigger particles would bump and go the angle that we want them to go. Stacey Gifford: Being able to separate particles in size range means that we can target a lot of things that cause disease so exosomes are one thing they're a good marker for a lot of different cancers and then there are other things like viruses and protiens in complexes that also play a really important role in not just disease but healthy states as well. Dr. Carlos Cardo: If we can identify not only one molecule or one protein or one DNA but if we can start looking that the disease at the multi dimensional level. If we can get inside of the disease and look from inside. we may have an opportunity of doing something very different 