 MICHAEL: Hi, I'm Michael from ETS. Today on Inside the TOEFL Test, we're going inside the TOEFL iBT Reading section. Specifically, the Prose Summary questions. And we'll also look at a similar but less common question type, the Fill in a Table questions. The Prose Summary questions are designed to show that you recognize the major ideas and the relative importance of information in a reading passage. In a Prose Summary question, there are 6 answer choices, and you will need to select the 3 correct choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. The incorrect answer choices will misrepresent information in the passage or will discuss minor points. In the real test, you will drag and drop your answers into the box. Prose Summary questions are worth 2 points toward your raw score. You get 2 points if you choose all 3 correct answers. You get one point if you choose 2 correct answers. And you get zero points for 1 or no correct answers. Note that your answers don't have to be in any particular order. And you can change your answers at any point during the allotted time for the reading section. The Fill In A Table questions are similar except that instead of choosing the three most important ideas, you will need to drag and drop your answers into two (or three) categories. Each reading passage will have one Prose Summary question, or one Fill In A Table Question, but not both. Let's look at a sample Prose Summary question. This type of question covers the whole reading passage, not just a single sentence or paragraph. Here's the passage about meteorites and dinosaur extinction. And here's the question. Now let's look at each of the answer choices to see which three are correct. Answer #1 isn't supported by any of the information in the passage, so we know that this one is not correct. Answer #2 is a factually correct statement, but identifying the specific date when something happened generally doesn't qualify as one of the most important ideas. So this one is probably not correct, but let's look at the others to make sure. For answer #3, the reference to the crater Tycho is used to give a sense of the size of the crater that struck the Yucatán. However, the topic of meteorite activity on the moon is not a focus of this passage. Answer #4 combines several facts that together provide a summary of an important idea from the passage. This is supported by information given in paragraphs 2 and 3. Answer #5 is about the effects of meteorite impacts, which is an important idea of the passage. We can see this in paragraph 4, where it talks about the mass destruction from the cold, darkness and fires. And in paragraph 5 where it talks about the catastrophic results. Answer #6 is another important idea that is stated in a similar sentence in paragraph 5: 'What is a catastrophe for one group of living things, however, may create opportunities for another group." So for this question, answers 4, 5 and 6 are the correct three choices. You can work to improve your reading skills by creating your own outlines or charts when you read a passage. Pick a chart format that is helpful for you, like one of these... ...and as you read, identify the main ideas and supporting details. As you practice more, you will be able to take fewer notes to outline the points. There are lots of ways to improve your English skills. Whatever you do, keep practicing. And good luck on your TOEFL test. 