 The kernel is the most important software component, since it allows the operating system to communicate with all the hardware part of the device. Linux is a kernel and hundreds of GNU Linux distributions are based on it, as are "Embedded Linux" operating systems, such as Android and KaiOS. GNU Linux is the set of software packages that make up the operating system, starting from the kernel and going through the file system (the set of files that organizes data storage) up to the user interface, which can be a desktop environment or a command line, and from which you can reprogram the kernel; The Embedded Linux operating systems, on the other hand, are non-reprogrammable software, not strictly tied to a filesystem, and they use an intermediate framework or runtime between the kernel and the user interface. Here are some examples: Android, uses a Linux kernel optimized by Google to allow the use of a virtual machine (Android RunTime) and the use of Java libraries for running applications, which require more hardware resources; KaiOS uses Gecko as runtime to manage the startup processes up to the graphical interface (Gaia) consisting of a single application, a web browser, which produces Javascript, HTML and CSS code to ensure that the operating system is also used on devices with 256 megabytes of RAM memory, starting applications as if they were just tabs into a browser. This is a substantial difference between systems based on the Linux kernel, but here are five other no less important differences: 1) GNU Linux supports many more architectures and its audience is more oriented towards the use of servers and desktops. Embedded Linux systems are popular on smartphones, tablets and smart TVs. 2) GNU Linux uses a graphics server to run programs, which allows the use of applications from other operating systems. Embedded Linux systems don't, but they have full support for the Google apps. 3) GNU Linux allows root privileges from the beginning of the installation. Embedded Linux systems, if they do not have options for developers, require the authorization of the hardware manufacturer or the use of third-party software that may contain mallware (in full Microsoft Windows style). 4) GNU Linux is oriented towards the user who wants to have absolute control of his system. Embedded Linux systems don't, but are subject to remote control in case of theft or loss. 5) GNU Linux, in all its distributions, is subject to constant updates and does not force you to change hardware for decades. Embedded Linux systems are subject to continuous releases and aim to make the devices in use obsolete after just over two years, forcing the buyer to buy a new one if he wishes to continue using certain applications. I hope I have helped you understand better the difference between a GNU Linux distribution and a system like Android or KaiOS. Thanks for your attention, see you, as always, in a next video! 