 For more than 20 years, IBM has partnered with the Masters on its journey of digital transformation. A journey with a singular goal: To deliver a world-class digital experience in more than 200 countries. We know not everyone can attend the Masters in person. So IBM works with the Masters team to create a digital experience that captures the essence of the tournament. We help deliver millions of simultaneous livestreams. We track the location of players' shots in real time. And we give patrons a way to watch their favorite players’ round in just 3 minutes. The Masters app and website keep me up to date on all the action I miss while I'm out on the course. Articles, player stats, highlights. It's got it all. The key to this experience is the Masters' hybrid cloud. When we first started working with the Masters more than 20 years ago, the setup was relatively straightforward. But today we've got multiple workloads, each with unique needs, spread across a combination of on-premise, private and public clouds. So we help them manage all this from a single control plane. As if it were one cloud. And we use open standards to ensure they’ll have choice and flexibility for years to come. The hybrid cloud foundation also allows the Masters to develop and scale AI models that transform the digital experience. Like using IBM Watson to analyze the excitement levels of more than 20,000 video clips during the tournament. Just a few years ago, there was literally no way you could have processed that amount of unstructured data. But we trained Watson to recognize player celebrations…. And the roar of the crowd. Watson assigns each clip an overall excitement score, and automatically edits together a 3-minute highlight reel for each players’ round. Our work with the Masters is similar to the digital journeys we’re taking with clients from every industry, in every part of the world. We’re modernizing the core systems of a 200-year old bank with hybrid cloud And we're analyzing images of farms to detect disease and improve crop yields with AI. From birdies to banking... From fairways to farming... IBM is changing the game and changing the world. Let’s put smart to work. 