  Welcome to the AI and analytics positioning video, highlighting an introduction to embedded analytics 360 Engage and marketing attribution. At the end of this video, we will share a technology demonstration on how SAS Customer Intelligence 360 enables a marketer, analyst, or data scientist to use a solution in the context of attribution and customer journey analytics, while benefiting from the value propositions of analytical automation and accelerators. SAS delivers embedded customer analytics with the intent to help our software users make better decisions, take action quickly, and derive value faster with out-of-the-box insights. In this series of videos, we will address the following topics. Not only AI is built the same, the better the data and the types of algorithms applied will impact the quality of the derived insights. Uncovering business challenges and facilitating shared knowledge, how to operationalize and advanced analytics inside a marketing, and making the case for iterating and improving your marketing analytics over time. In addition to sharing thought leadership across these topics, we will also answer the following questions. How does SAS continuously adapt to customer decisions and help automate the customer decision making process over time, as well as how to SAS optimize decision. However, before we get to the demonstrations, it is practical to introduce SAS 360 engage. This software module within SAS Customer Intelligence 360 contextually enables a brand to communicate, target, and personalized customer journeys across channels by integrating the spare channels. It extracts analytical insights from your data and uses those insights to orchestrate meaningful customer interactions over channels like web, mobile app, email, direct, and more. With respect to embedded AI and Machine Learning automation within the system, here are introductions and value propositions to the available features. Automated segmentation. It can be defined through an example. When an A/B test is run and the results recommend a winning variant, segment discovery searches for segments of the target audience that respond well or poorly to a variant that is different from the recommended winner. A segment represents a group of people who share common characteristics. Impression rates, conversion rates, and segment size are analyzed to compare the performance of the winning variant to the remaining variance in an A/B test. By looking for common attributes among customer data, SAS Customer Intelligence 360 can discover a segment and find an alternate variant that performs better for that segment than the winning variant. Testing and experiment design. In SAS Customer Intelligence 360, users can test activity paths, web content, and mobile content across experiment methods such as ABN testing, multi-armed bandit testing, and multivariate testing. From sample size estimations and other design considerations to the generation of insights and interpretable visualizations, out-of-the-box analytical automation supports the desired agility of a digital marketers optimization efforts. Recommendation systems. Behind the scenes, SAS Customer Intelligence 360 uses collaborative filtering based on the idea that people that share preferences for certain products are likely to share preferences for other products. The method groups users into quote, "neighborhoods" end quote, where users in the same neighborhood have similar preferences. Product recommendations for a user generated by analyzing navigational and behavior user patterns and estimates preferences for products. These preferences are converted to implicit ratings as input to the collaborative filtering method. SAS custom intelligence 360 uses two flavors of algorithmic techniques in a hybrid approach that combines collaborative filtering and content-based or item filtering to deliver recommendations, overcoming traditional recommendation system issues like scalability, sparsity, and cold start problems. Marketing attribution. Broadly speaking, the holy grail of media measurement is to analyze the impact and business value of all company generated marketing interactions across the customer journey. There are a variety of methods to approach attribution measurement. From last and first interaction to linear and time decay. Being SAS and analytic approach as opposed to a rules-based approach is naturally advocated to address the operational and process related obstacles that are commonly experienced by customers. The output of attribution analytics informs users and marketers about what touch points and sequence of activities drive their defined conversions. This leads marketers to make strategic decisions about future investment levels in paid media, as well as more tactical decisions about what activities and targeting tasks to run. SAS delivers attribution measurement and customer journey analytics for structured, semi and unstructured data, supporting both do it for me and do it yourself analysis approaches. Paid, owned, and earned data can be integrated with customizable engagement definitions for both macro and micro goals within algorithmic attribution, as well as automated insight reporting, providing journey maps of segments following specific touchpoint sequences binned by time and associated KPIs. In addition to embedded analytic capabilities, users can leverage accessible attribution ABTs or analytic base tables for no, low, and high code customizable analysis across applications like visualization, pathing, supervised machine learning, deep learning, and more. One important subtopic to dive into is accessible analytic based tables, or ABTs. Sometimes, others refer to them as modeling tables, or just simply analysis tables. No matter what users call them, every analyst is guilty of making the following statement to their leadership team. Begin quote, "I spend more than 80% of my time preparing data and less than 20% actually performing analysis" end quote. Speed bumps like this usually emerge when marketing teams require advanced insights abiding to unique requirements that stretch beyond embedded or automated attribution solutions. Have you ever tried to extract hit or click level data from your preferred marketing cloud vendor? It's not formatted for machine learning or AI applications, and time is lost in the complex efforts to reengineer that information. Analytic based tables, or ABTs represent a flat table schema that's used for building analytical models and scoring or predicting the future behavior of a subject or user. A single record in this table represents the subject of the prediction, such as a customer anonymous visitor and stores all data, or variables, features, or predictors, describing this subject. ABTs are available for user access as part of the structured, unified data model and associated tables in 360 Engage. The attribution ABT is one of the tables that 360 Engage makes available to users and helps accelerate the workflow of performing customizable modeling. It is also the data table the solution uses to enable its embedded automated attribution insights. Each row in the attribution table represents one customer interaction. The table shows two types of data. One, origination data or traffic sources, and two, conversion events based on your defined macro or micro goals that are associated with data views or events of interest. Users can download the table and take one of the following actions. Run the data against their own analytical models and SAS, open source, or other technologies, as well as append any other data they have, such as direct marketing contact and response records to the input table for a more robust set of information that can be fed for modeling. With that said, let's transition to a technology demonstration that will be delivered in two parts. 1, a demo that summarizes what 360 engage provides as an embedded automated attribution solution, and two, a second demo that summarizes how 360 Engage can also enable customize analysis for data science and machine learning efforts. A customer journey is a set of actions or touch points that a customer takes before converting. These touch points often cross channels, devices, and sessions. For example, a customer might click a paid search result for a product, and then see an ad for that product in a social media feed. In addition, the customer rep might receive an email or a message on a mobile device about that product. How do you know which of these touch points, the email, mobile message, search result, or social media advertisement contributed to the final conversion? Multi-touch attribution is the process of identifying touch points along a customer journey and assigning credit to those touch points so that you can analyze the contributions of each of these touch points toward the conversion. In order to determine attribution, SAS first discovers customer journeys for conversions and then assigns credit to the touch points in those journeys. The software allows users to analyze customer journeys, using both an algorithmic or machine learning method, as well as rules-based measurement methods. Interactivity across all the different visual reporting objects are available to the user, as well as the ability to drill down into any specific touchpoint to subset the customer journey mapper over to the right side and allow users to dig deeper across different KPIs, as well as investigate specific, unique journeys following sequences across the touchpoint positions. In this example, we are looking at a subset of customer journeys that began with paid search, had a second interaction with organic search, and ended with a direct interaction with the brand. SAS then allows the user to investigate these journeys even deeper, considering the element of time. Some of these journeys are separated by a larger bending of time and some of these journeys are separated by a much shorter bin of time. Associated KPIs such as conversion rates can vary by these different time intervals and allow the user to report out on whether strategies like real time remarketing are having a positive or negative impact on journey conversion rates. Attribution data depends on data views. Data views track the conversions and common attributes for a collection of customer experience events. Those events typically track one or more goals that users have for their organization. For example, when a person purchases a product on a website or subscribes to a newsletter, they might be completing one of the organization's goals. A conversion occurs when a person completes one of those goals. Attribution analysis also requires information about the set of actions that a person takes before converting, known as a customer journey. The data about customer journeys is tracked in traffic sources. For example, traffic sources can tell you whether a visitor went directly to a website or arrived there from a search result via search engine or by clicking a link in an email or clicking on a display add. The following prerequisites must be met before data is added to the attribution analytic based table from Customer Intelligence 360. Data views that are published and have conversions must exist. Within SAS Customer Intelligence 360, there must be traffic sources defined or configured within the general settings of the traffic sources page. Transitioning to analysis and modeling, users can enable SAS visual data mining machine learning and specifically Model Studio to use preloaded templates as a method for creating statistical models quickly on the ABT. A template is a special type of pipeline that is pre-populated with configurations that can be used to create a model. Additionally, AutoML is supported for automatically creating a pipeline, driven uniquely by the input ABT data. Users simply select the software's feature labeled automatically generate the pipeline in the new pipeline window. In this demo example, the AutoML feature has created a force model with two new features generated per input by using the feature machine node, as well as hyper parameter auto tuning. A second force model also using the feature machine node, as well as variable selection, leveraging both unsupervised and supervised methods to reduce the number of modeling inputs, and open source Python XG boost model, a logistic regression model included for interpretability, and finally, an ensemble model that averages the posterior probabilities of the force models. Users are not limited to black box automation, as pipeline nodes can be further customized. Data preprocessing, dimension reduction, unsupervised learning, model fit, champion algorithm selection, assessment, interpretability, handling of rare events and more are just a click away. Specifically, the open source code node is a miscellaneous node that can run Python or R code. This node can subsequently be assessed and included in the model comparison node of any pipeline. Switching to insights of this analysis, users can access a project summary report after successfully running the model comparison node in at least one pipeline. To see the report, users simply select the Insights tab. Some of the benefits that are auto generated include the most common variable selected across all models, an assessment for all models, the most important variables for the champion model, the cumulative lift for the champion model. The auto generated charts have detailed descriptions available that explain how the charts were generated. The descriptions also provide information about how to interpret the charts that is custom to the user's particular data and models, driven by the software's natural language generated explanations feature. Lastly, one of the traditional steps of communicating with other teams begins with visualization or reporting and the elegance of sharing the data story. The results of the pipeline modeling are available to users to create customized visualization to suit the needs of their respective audiences. 