 (arpeggiated piano music) - [Narrator] The world of data is in constant flux. Capturing and leveraging that data begins on the edge with devices that help us learn, understand and take action. IBM Informix, IOT, and Blockchain technologies give businesses the power to perform fast analytics on edge devices that capture that geospacial and time-series data, bringing more insights into focus faster than ever before. Enterprises across verticals around the globe get a blockchain-ready database, upgraded edge analytics with easier querying, improved reliability for less downtime, and security improvements that combat edge device attacks. With a footprint of just 100 megabytes, Informix can be up and embedded in edge gateways and applications, running in minutes with zero admin. Key-based licensing upgrades make it the only install you'll ever need. With Informix Smart Triggers, event-based notifications automatically push data from an Informix database to the blockchain, reducing strain on DBAs, while you track workload efficiencies, send custom alerts, and use robust collaboration tools in the Informix HQ web console. Informix is 10% faster than previous models for standard OLTP transactions, providing unmatched and consistent transactional processing. Enterprise editions feature compression that can make databases up to four times smaller, further reducing the space needed on edge devices. Common table expressions has improved readability and maintenance of complex queries. And, support for additional geodetic and projections systems have been added along with sub-second time stamps, so that more robust analytics can be performed throughout your network of devices. Replication is now five times faster, with near zero latency between primary and secondary servers, and faster recovery and disaster scenarios for increased availability, reliability, and business continuity. In addition, IBM Informix has several self-tuning or autonomic features. For example, Informix can dynamically adapt to an increased I/O workload by increasing the number of processors and threads, allowing it to run continuously and reliably without performance degradation. In addition, a single command can automate set-up of Enterprise replication and migration between two Informix instances with no downtime. And support for remote storage of encryption at rest keys in Amazon Key Manager reduces DBA effort and enhances encryption without risking key loss. Discover how IBM Informix can help you perform low-latency analytics on the edge more easily and securely. 