 Hello and welcome to a new episode on our YouTube channel inVISION News TV. Today we have brought you three interesting products from the world of image processing and metrology, which we will briefly introduce below. We hope you enjoy it. In today's issue we show you: the VHub-AI-Developer from Vecow the AI Vision Solution Kit with Cloud Connection from Basler and the embedded board MT800 from Spectra Especially for AI vision applications the VHub-AI-Developer from Vecow was developed. The VHub has an Intel OpenVino based software development kit. This contains more than 200 pre-trained functions for motion, face, object and character recognition. It supports various deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow, Caffe. It also contains pre-trained AI models, which are optimized for corresponding applications. Vecow's AI inference systems equipped with the VHub AI Developer support various acceleration engines such as Movidius VPU or GPU. Basler has expanded its portfolio with AI optimized embedded vision systems with cloud connectivity. This allows users to test AI-based IoT applications on an optimized vision system and access cloud services. The AI Vision Solution Kit enables developers to use machine learning models provided in the cloud, train them, and deploy them on the edge device. The software environment was developed together with Amazon Web Services. The embedded hardware of the kit consists of the 13MP dart Bcon for MIPI camera. The processing board is based on the new Hummingboard Ripple from SolidRun. Demanding AI applications make high demands on the used CPU platform. Important are besides powerful Core-I processors also the MXM socket This should be optimized for the use of GPU cards for AI applications. The MT800 embedded board from Spectra meets these requirements. It supports four display interfaces  as well as expansion options via a fast PCIe x16, a Mini PCIe and an M.2 (M-Key) slot. Six USB 3.1 ports and two Gigabit LAN ports are available specifically for connecting cameras. That's it for today on inVISION-News TV. If you enjoyed it, leave a like and subscribe us to never miss any new information about image processing and measurement technology. 