BusinessOur CompanyWe deliver microinverter technology for the solar industry that increases energy production, simplifies design and installation, improves system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides a platform for intelligent energy management. Our semiconductor-based microinverter system converts direct current (DC) electricity to alternating current (AC) electricity at the individual solar module level, and brings a system-based, high technology approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, networking and embedded and web-based software technologies. We are the market leader in the microinverter category and have grown rapidly. Since our first commercial shipment in mid-2008, we have sold approximately 4.7 million microinverters as of December 31, 2013, which represents over 1.2 gigawatt (DC). We were the first company to commercially ship microinverter systems in volume. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets and Australia.We were incorporated as PVI Solutions, Inc. in March 2006 in the State of Delaware and changed our name to Enphase Energy, Inc. in July 2007.Industry BackgroundHistorically, traditional central inverters have been the only inverter technology used for solar photovoltaic, or PV installations. In an installation consisting of a traditional central inverter, the solar PV modules are connected in series strings. In a large installation, there are multiple series strings connected in parallel. The aggregated voltage from each of these strings is then fed into a large central inverter. As compared to microinverter systems, we believe that traditional central inverters have a number of design and performance challenges limiting innovation and their ability to reduce the cost of solar systems, including the following:•Productivity limits. If solar modules are wired using a traditional central inverter—group or “string” of modules are wired in series—an entire string's output is limited by the output of the lowest-performing module. Because of its string design, there is a single point of failure risk with the traditional central inverter approach.•Reliability issues. Traditional central inverters are the single most common component of solar installations to fail, resulting in system downtime and adversely impacting total energy output. As a result, central inverters typically carry warranties of only 5 to 10 years.•Complex design and installation requirements. The central inverter-based solar PV installation requires greater effort on the part of the installer, both in terms of design and on-site labor. Central inverter installations require string design and calculations for safe and reliable operation, as well as specialized equipment such as DC combiners, conduits and disconnects. In addition, the use of high-voltage DC requires specialized knowledge and training and safety precautions to install central inverter technology.2Table of Contents•Lack of monitoring. The majority of solar installations with central inverter technology offer limited monitoring capabilities. A failure of the central inverter will often go unnoticed for days or even weeks. If a module fails or is not performing to specification, the resulting loss of energy can go unnoticed for an extended period of time.•Safety issues. Central inverter solar PV installations have a wide distribution of high-voltage (600 volts in the United States and 1,000 volts in Europe) DC wiring. If damaged, DC wires can generate sustained electrical arcs, reaching temperatures of more than 5,000 °F. This creates the risk of fire for solar PV installation owners and injury for installers and maintenance personnel.These challenges of traditional central inverters have a direct impact on the cost and expected return on investment of solar installations to both installers and system owners:•Installer. Solar PV installers aim for simple installation design, fast installation times and maximum system performance and predictability. The installation of high-voltage DC central inverter technology, however, requires significant preparation, precautionary safety measures, time-consuming string calculations, extensive design expertise and specialized installation equipment, training and knowledge. Together, these factors significantly increase complexity and cost of installation and limit overall productivity for the installer.•System owner. Solar system owners aim for high energy production, low cost, high reliability and low maintenance requirements, as well as reduced fire risks. With traditional central inverters, owners often are unable to optimize the size or shape of their solar PV installations due to string design limitations. As such, they experience performance loss from shading and other obstructions, can face frequent system failures and lack the ability to effectively monitor the performance of their solar PV installation. In addition, central inverter installations operate at high-voltage DC which bears significant fire risks. Further, due to their large size, central inverter installations can affect architectural aesthetics of the house or commercial building.Our ProductsWe design, develop, manufacture and sell a microinverter system for the solar PV industry. We have built from the ground up a semiconductor-based microinverter system that converts energy at the individual solar module level and, combined with our proprietary networking and software technologies, provides advanced energy monitoring and control. This is vastly different than the central inverter approach that can only convert energy of the entire array of solar modules from a single high voltage electrical unit, and lacks intelligence about the energy producing capacity of the solar array.Our microinverter solution brings a system-based, high technology approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, networking, and embedded and web-based software technologies. Our microinverter system consists of three key components: our Enphase microinverter, Envoy communications gateway and Enlighten web-based software:•Our Enphase microinverter delivers efficient and reliable power conversion at the individual solar module level by introducing a digital architecture that incorporates custom application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, specialized power electronics devices and an embedded software subsystem that optimizes energy production from each module and manages the core ASIC functions. A residential solar installation typically consists of 5 to 50 microinverters; a small commercial solar installation typically consists of 50 to 500 microinverters; and a medium or larger commercial solar installation typically consists of 500 to 10,000 microinverters, or more.•Our Envoy communications gateway is installed in the system owner's home or business and serves as a networking hub that collects data from the microinverter array and sends the information to our hosted data center. One Envoy is typically sold with each solar installation and can support up to 500 Enphase microinverters.•Our Enlighten web-based software collects and analyzes this information to enable system owners to monitor and realize the highest performance of their solar PV system. In addition, Enlighten also provides an online portal specifically designed for installers to enable them to track and manage all of their Enphase enabled projects and monitor and analyze the performance of their installed systems. Together, our Enphase microinverter, Envoy communications gateway and Enlighten web-based software function as a single unified system that enhances energy production, simplifies design and installation, reduces costs, increases system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides the ability to monitor performance in real-time. With an Enphase microinverter system, we believe solar system owners can achieve a higher return on investment over the lifetime of the solar system than would be achieved using a traditional central inverter approach. 3Table of ContentsKey elements of our solution include:  Productive-Superior Energy Production. Our microinverter system enables the maximum possible energy production from each module, overcoming a fundamental design limitation of central inverters which are limited by the lowest performing module. We believe that our microinverter systems achieve higher energy production and can generate superior returns on investment relative to central inverter solutions for system owners.  Reliable-Longer Life and No Single Point of Failure. Reduction of component count, primarily through semiconductor integration in our microinverter, allows us to design a reliable system that can withstand harsh environmental conditions. In addition, because we process low voltages and power levels, our components experience less stress and last longer than traditional central inverters. Furthermore, the distributed architecture of our microinverter system translates into greater system uptime. If a microinverter unit fails, it results in lost energy production from a single solar module only and not the entire array. In addition, we offer a limited warranty of up to 25 years on our microinverters. Simple-Ease of Design and Installation. Using microinverter technology, an installer can design a system of any size and any roof configuration with a simple modular approach. After initial installation, the system can be easily expanded by even a single module. Our single inverter per module approach converts directly to AC and enables a simpler, all AC design, eliminating the extra cost, training and complexity associated with typical high voltage DC implementation. Without these complexities, installation of microinverter technology is greatly simplified, improving installers' productivity. This also enables a new class of solar installer, such as electricians and general contractors. Finally, our microinverters are installed on the roof and hidden from view, with minimal impact to the aesthetics of a home or building.  Smart-Module-Level Monitoring and Analytics. Our microinverter system allows us to collect energy production information in real time on a per solar module basis. This enables powerful system analytics and allows Enphase to offer installers visibility into how systems are performing and the ability to continuously optimize energy production-which is particularly important when operating commercial solar installations. Such services include system performance and diagnostics, benchmarking, as well as system and module alerts and fault statistics.  Safe-“All AC” Solution. Microinverters are safer because they process low DC voltages relative to central inverters. High voltage arc faults associated with traditional central inverter are the leading cause of fires of solar PV installations. Microinverter technology mitigates this safety risk.  Due to the benefits of our solution, we believe solar installers achieve greater productivity and competitive differentiation over installers of traditional central inverter solar PV installations, and the solar system owner achieves a higher return on investment with an Enphase microinverter system over the life of the solar system.  Our StrategyOur objective is to continue to be the leading provider of microinverter systems for the solar industry worldwide and to accelerate the shift from traditional central inverters to microinverter technology. Key elements of our strategy include:•Continue to Penetrate Our Core Markets. We intend to capitalize on our market leadership in the microinverter category and our momentum with installers and owners to expand our market share position in our core U.S. market.•Enter New Geographic Markets. We intend to further increase our market share in Europe and Australia. In addition, we intend to expand into new markets with new and existing products and local go-to-market capabilities.•Increase Power and Efficiency and Reduce Cost per Watt. Our engineering team is focused on continuing to increase average power conversion efficiency above 96.5% and AC output power beyond 250 watts. We intend to continue to leverage our semiconductor integration, power electronics expertise and manufacturing economies of scale to further reduce cost per watt.•Extend Our Technological Innovation. We distinguish ourselves from other inverter companies with our system- based and high-tech approach, and the ability to leverage strong research and development capabilities. As of December 31, 2013, we had 36 issued U.S. patents, 11 issued non-U.S. patents, 80 pending U.S. patent applications and 139 pending non-U.S. counterpart patent applications. •Expand Our Product Offering for Commercial Installations and Utility-Scale Installations. We intend to expand our product offering by introducing new microinverter systems targeted at larger commercial installations and 4Table of Contentsutility-scale installations. We expect these market segments to become a significant revenue opportunity for us in the future.•Develop a Software Management Platform. We intend to build upon our strong position as the leading supplier of microinverter systems to develop additional energy management services for our growing network of solar installers worldwide. Customers and SalesWe currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets and Australia. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to solar distributors who resell to installers and integrators, who in turn integrate our products into complete solar PV installations for residential and commercial system owners. We work with many of the leading solar distributors. In 2013, Vivint Solar, Inc., CED Greentech and Focused Energy, Inc. accounted for 15%, 14% and 11% of total net revenues, respectively. In addition to our distributors, we sell directly to large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Our OEM customers include solar module manufacturers who bundle our products and solutions with their solar module products and resell to both distributors and installers. Strategic partners include a variety of companies and arrangements, including industrial equipment suppliers and providers of solar financing solutions. We also sell the Enphase-branded product directly to electrical contractor distributors in North America. Historically, revenues generated from the U.S. market have represented more than 80% of our business, with the remainder from Canada, Europe and Australia.  Manufacturing, Quality Control and Key SuppliersWe outsource the manufacturing of our products to two key manufacturing partners, Flextronics International Ltd. and Phoenix Contact GmbH & Co. KG. Flextronics assembles and tests our microinverter pursuant to a manufacturing services agreement. Prices for such services are mutually agreed to by the parties on a quarterly basis and we are obligated to purchase manufactured products and raw materials that cannot be resold upon the termination of the agreement. Flextronics' assembly and test plants for our products are located in Fuyong, China, and New Market, Ontario, Canada. Flextronics also provides receiving, kitting, storage, transportation, inventory visibility and other value-added logistics services at locations managed by Flextronics pursuant to a logistics services agreement. Phoenix manufactures our custom AC cable pursuant to a cooperation agreement. Phoenix's facilities are located in Poland and China. In addition, we rely on several unaffiliated companies to supply certain components used in the fabrication of our microinverter system. Customer ServiceWe maintain high levels of customer engagement through our customer support group and the Enlighten web-based software portal, and have cultivated an organizational focus on customer satisfaction. Our dedicated customer support group focuses on responding to inbound inquiries regarding any of our products and services. As of December 31, 2013, our customer support staff consisted of 55 employees in the United States and 10 employees in Europe.In addition, customized support programs are being developed for selected OEM partners, large direct installers and distributors to help prioritize and track support issues for key partners and to provide a single point of contact.Research and DevelopmentWe devote substantial resources to research and development with the objective of developing new products and systems, adding new features to existing products and systems and reducing unit costs of our Enphase microinverter system. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that reduce the cost and optimize the effectiveness of our microinverter solutions for our customers. We measure the effectiveness of our research and development against metrics, including product unit cost, efficiency, reliability, power output and ease-of-use. As of December 31, 2013, our research and development staff consisted of 162 employees, of whom 140 were located in the United States and the remainder primarily located in New Zealand. Our research and development expenses were $34.5 million, $35.6 million and $25.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Intellectual Property Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary technologies. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, confidentiality agreements and procedures and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. As of December 31, 2013, we had 36 issued U.S. patents, 11 issued non-U.S. patents, 80 pending U.S. patent applications and 139 pending non-U.S. counterpart patent applications. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire between years 2027 and 2032. We license certain power line communications technology and software for integration into our ASICs pursuant to a fully-paid, royalty-free license, which includes the right for us to source directly from the licensor’s suppliers or manufacture 5Table of Contentscertain ASIC hardware should the licensor fail, under certain conditions, to deliver such technology in the future. This license includes a limited exclusivity period during which the licensor has agreed not to license the licensed technology to any third party manufacturer of electronic components or systems for use in the solar energy market. The license carries a seventy-five year term, subject to earlier termination upon mutual agreement of the parties, or by us in connection with the insolvency of the licensor. We also license digital intellectual property cores, or IP blocks, for integration into and distribution with certain electronic components built into our products, including our ASICs, complex programmable logic devices, or CPLDs, and field-programmable gate arrays, or FPGAs. This is a fully-paid, non-exclusive, non-transferrable, royalty-free license providing for the integration of such digital IP blocks in an unlimited number of electronic component designs and the distribution of such electronic components with our products. Other than in connection with the distribution of our products, our use of such digital IP blocks is limited to certain of our business sites. The license is perpetual, subject to earlier termination by either party upon the termination, suspension or insolvency of the other party’s business, or by the licensor upon a breach of the license agreement by us. In addition, we license open source software from third parties for integration into our Envoy products. Such open source software is licensed under open source licenses. These licenses are perpetual and require us to attribute the source of the software to the original software developer, which we provide via our website. We continually assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology, designs and methodologies and processes that we believe provide significant competitive advantages. A majority of our patents relate to DC to AC power conversion for alternative energy power systems, as well as power system monitoring, control and management systems. With respect to, among other things, proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe that many elements of our microinverter manufacturing process involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical processes, test equipment designs, algorithms and procedures.  All of our research and development personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection issues and require our employees to assign to us all of the inventions, designs and technologies they develop during the course of employment with us.  We also require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our microinverter, technology or business plans. Seasonality Historically, sales of our products in the second, third and fourth quarters have been positively affected by seasonal customer demand trends, including solar economic incentives, weather patterns and construction cycles, followed by a seasonally softer first quarter. Although these seasonal factors are common in the solar sector, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance.CompetitionThe markets for our products are highly competitive, and we compete both with well-established traditional central inverter manufacturers and new technology start-ups. The principal areas in which we compete with other companies include:•Product performance and features;•Total cost of ownership (usually measured by levelized cost of electricity, or LCOE);•Breadth of product line;•Local sales and distribution capabilities;•Module compatibility and interoperability;•Reliability and duration of product warranty;•Technological expertise;•Brand recognition and customer service and support;•Compliance with industry standards and certifications and local electrical code;•Size and financial stability of operations;•Size of installed base; and6Table of Contents•Local manufacturing and product content.Currently, competitors in the inverter market range from large, international companies such as SMA Solar Technology AG, Fronius International GmbH and Power-One, Inc. to emerging companies offering alternative microinverter or other solar electronics products. We principally compete with the large, incumbent solar inverter companies because traditional central inverter solutions can be used as alternatives to our microinverter solution. We believe, however, that our microinverter solutions offer significant advantages and competitive differentiation relative to traditional central inverter technology, even when traditional central inverter technology is supplemented by DC-to-DC optimizers. SMA Solar Technology AG and Power-One Inc. have recently introduced or announced plans to introduce microinverter products. In addition, several new entrants to the microinverter market have recently announced plans to ship or have already shipped products, including some of our OEM customers and partners. Employees  As of December 31, 2013, we had 398 employees. Of the full-time employees, 161 were engaged in research and development, 156 in sales and marketing, 50 in a general and administrative capacity and 31 in manufacturing and operations. Of these employees, 338 were in the United States, 34 in Europe, 19 in New Zealand, four in Australia, two in Canada and one employee in China. None of our U.S., New Zealand, U.K. and Australia employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us; however, our employees in France and Italy are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any employment-related work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.  Available Information We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We make available on our website at www.enphase.com (under “Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings”), free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC.7Table of Contents