Risk FactorsWe have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.We have a history of losses which may continue in the future, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses in each quarter since inception, and we may continue to incur additional net losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $25.9 million, $38.2 million and $32.3 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $152.9 million. Our revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, many of which are outside our control, including a decline in demand for our offerings, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of the solar industry or our market share, or our failure to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue to support our operations, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have been in existence since 2006 and did not begin shipping our products in commercial quantities until mid-2008. Much of our growth has occurred in recent periods. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, including increased expenses as we continue to grow our business. If we do not manage these risks and overcome these difficulties successfully, our business will suffer.Since we began commercial shipments of our products, our revenue, gross profit and results of operations have varied and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenue and gross profit and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations.Further, our efforts to achieve broader market acceptance for our microinverter systems and to expand beyond our existing markets may never succeed, which would adversely impact our ability to generate additional revenue or become profitable.If demand for solar energy solutions does not continue to grow or grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our business will suffer. Our microinverter systems are utilized in solar photovoltaic, or PV, installations, which provide on-site distributed power generation. As a result, our future success depends on continued demand for solar energy solutions and the ability of solar equipment vendors to meet this demand. The solar industry is an evolving industry that has experienced substantial changes in recent years, and we cannot be certain that consumers and businesses will adopt solar PV systems as an alternative energy source at levels sufficient to grow our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices. The viability and continued growth in demand for solar energy solutions, and in turn, our products, may be impacted by many factors outside of our control, including:•market acceptance of solar PV systems based on our product platform;  •cost competitiveness, reliability and performance of solar PV systems compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; •availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support the development and deployment of solar energy solutions; •the extent to which the electric power industry and broader energy industries are deregulated to permit broader adoption of solar electricity generation; 8Table of Contents•the cost and availability of key raw materials and components used in the production of solar PV systems; •prices of traditional carbon-based energy sources; •levels of investment by end-users of solar energy products, which tend to decrease when economic growth slows; and •the emergence, continuance or success of, or increased government support for, other alternative energy generation technologies and products. If demand for solar energy solutions fails to develop sufficiently, demand for our customers' products as well as demand for our products will decrease, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business.Short-term demand and supply imbalances, especially for solar module technology, recently have caused prices for solar technology solutions to decline rapidly. Furthermore, competition in the solar industry has increased due to the emergence of Asian manufacturers along the entire solar value chain causing further price declines, excess inventory and oversupply. These market disruptions may continue to occur and may increase pressure to reduce prices, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for solar PV systems and harm our business. The market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer's electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government and economic incentives that vary by geographic market. Because our customers' sales are typically into the on-grid market, the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity may negatively affect the competitiveness of solar electricity relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of electricity, and could harm or halt the growth of the solar electricity industry and our business.In general, the cost of solar power currently exceeds retail electricity rates, and we believe this tendency will continue in the near term. As a result, national, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Australia, Canada, France, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Japan, the People's Republic of China, the United Kingdom, Spain and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, or FiTs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to system owners, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar PV systems to promote the use of solar electricity in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, terminate upon the exhaustion of the allocated funding, require renewal by the applicable authority or are being amended by governments due to changing market circumstances or changes to national, state or local energy policy.Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from other non-solar renewable sources of electricity may successfully lobby for changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that are harmful to the solar industry. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives in regions that we focus our sales efforts could result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from solar PV systems there, which would adversely affect sales of our products. In addition, our ability to successfully penetrate new geographic markets may depend on new countries adopting and maintaining incentives to promote solar electricity, to the extent such incentives are not currently in place. Additionally, electric utility companies may establish pricing structures or interconnection requirements that could adversely affect our sales and be harmful to the solar and distributed rooftop solar generation industry.Our focus on a limited number of specific markets increases risks associated with the elimination or expiration of governmental subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. To date, we have generated substantially all of our revenues from North America and expect to generate a substantial amount of revenues from North America in the future. There are a number of important incentives that are expected to phase-out or terminate in the future, which could adversely affect sales of our products. A substantial majority of our revenues come from the United States, which has both federal and state incentives. The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008 provides a 30% federal tax credit for residential and commercial solar installations, which expire on December 31, 2016. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as amended, created a renewable energy grant program that offered cash payments in lieu of investment tax credits to renewable energy project developers for eligible property placed in service prior to December 31, 2011 or placed in service by the specified credit termination date, if construction began prior to December 31, 2011. We believe the tax credit and grant programs have had a positive effect on our sales since inception. 9Table of ContentsHowever, unless the tax credit program is further extended, the eventual phase-out of this program could adversely affect sales of our products in the future.California is the largest single solar market in the United States, based on analysis from SEIA data and GTM Research, and a significant portion of our revenues are generated in California. In 2007, the State of California launched its 10-year, $3 billion “Go Solar California” campaign, which encourages the installation of an aggregate of 3,000 MW of solar energy systems in homes and businesses by the end of 2016. The largest part of the campaign, the “California Solar Initiative,” provides rebates and performance-based incentives which decrease in intervals as installation thresholds are met. The “Go Solar California” program is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2016, but the pace of installations has been high and the program is likely to conclude sooner. Both Pacific Gas and Electric and San Diego Gas and Electric have surpassed all installation thresholds in the residential sector and are no longer accepting applications. Pacific Gas and Electric is placing all new applications for the commercial sector on a waiting list, and these applications may not be able to receive incentives. Programs for other utilities and market segments continue, but could conclude prior to December 31, 2016 if installations continue at their current pace.We also sell our products in Ontario, Canada. The Ontario Power Authority Green Energy and Green Economy Act of 2009 created two separate FiT programs for projects greater than 10kW and for projects less than 10kW. These FiT programs provide participants with a fixed price for electricity produced over a 20-year contract term. Both programs were recently suspended while they underwent a review. The program for projects less than 10kW was re-opened to new applications in July 2012 with a procurement target of 50 MW. The program for projects between 10kW and 500kW was re-opened for new applications between December 14, 2012 and January 18, 2013 with a procurement target of 200 MW. The Government of Ontario has announced plans for annual procurement targets of 50MW of projects under 10kW and 150MW of projects between 10kW and 500kW through 2017. However, all procurement occurs at the direction of the Government of Ontario and these plans could change, or market conditions could result in procurement targets not being met. Furthermore, the Government of Ontario has the authority to change the FiTs for future contracts at its discretion, and has the authority to modify, suspend, or discontinue the program at any time. Suspension of the FiT program in Ontario directly impacted and could continue to impact our business. Furthermore, any future suspension or modification of the program could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In the fourth quarter of 2011, we began selling our products in France, Italy and the Benelux region. During the second quarter of 2012, we opened a sales office in the United Kingdom and began selling our products there at the beginning of the third quarter. A number of European countries, including Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom, have adopted reductions to their FiTs, Spain announced a suspension of its FiT for new renewable energy projects in January 2012 and Italy concluded its FiT program in July 2013. Certain countries, notably Greece and Spain, have proposed or enacted taxes levied on renewable energy. These and related developments have significantly impacted the solar industry in Europe and may adversely affect the future demand for the solar energy solutions in Europe. The reductions in European tariffs and subsidies and other requirements or incentives, including local content requirements or incentives, have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as we seek to increase our sales in Europe.In the first quarter of 2013, we began selling our products in Australia. In 2012, Australia enacted a national price on carbon emissions intended to increase the cost of traditional energy sources, thereby making renewable energy sources more attractive. Beginning in 2012, several states in Australia also began to gradually reduce their FiTs. As of October 2013, all FiT programs in Australia have expired. Australia recently elected a new national Government. The new leadership has pledged to revise national energy policy, including the carbon price, Renewable Energy Target, and certain renewable energy financing mechanisms. The reductions in incentives and uncertainty around future energy policy may negatively affect our business financial condition, and results of operations as we seek to increase our business in Australia. Additionally, as we further expand to other countries, changes in incentive programs or electricity policies could negatively affect returns on our investments in those countries as well as our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The threat of continuing global economic, capital markets and credit disruptions, including sovereign debt issues, pose risks for our business. The threat of continuing global economic, capital markets and credit disruptions, including the sovereign debt issues in Europe, pose risks for our business. These risks include slower economic activity and investment in projects that make use of our products and services. These economic developments, particularly decreased credit availability, have reduced demand for solar products. The European sovereign debt crisis has caused and may continue to cause European governments to reduce, eliminate or allow to expire government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy, which could limit our growth or 10Table of Contentscause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These conditions, including reduced incentives, continued decreases in credit availability, as well as continued economic instability, have and may continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations as we seek to increase our sales in Europe.Our microinverter systems may not achieve broader market acceptance, which would prevent us from increasing our revenue and market share. If we fail to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, there would be an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue, gain market share and achieve and sustain profitability. Our ability to achieve broader market acceptance for our products will be impacted by a number of factors, including:•our ability to timely introduce and complete new designs and timely qualify and certify our products; •whether installers, system owners and solar financing providers will continue to adopt our microinverter systems, which is a relatively new technology with a limited history with respect to reliability and performance; •whether installers, system owners and solar financing providers will be willing to purchase microinverter systems from us given our limited operating history; •the ability of prospective system owners to obtain long-term financing for solar PV installations based on our product platform on acceptable terms or at all; •our ability to produce microinverter systems that compete favorably against other solutions on the basis of price, quality, reliability and performance; •our ability to develop products that comply with local standards and regulatory requirements, as well as potential in-country manufacturing requirements; and •our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with our customers and suppliers.  In addition, our ability to achieve increased market share will depend on our ability to increase sales to established solar installers, who have traditionally sold central inverters. These installers often have made substantial investments in design, installation resources and training in traditional central inverter systems, which may create challenges for us to achieve their adoption of our microinverter systems.Our gross profit may fluctuate over time, which could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Our gross profit has varied in the past and is likely to continue to vary significantly from period to period. Our gross profit may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•changes in customer, geographic or product mix; •increased price competition, including the impact of customer discounts and rebates; ability to reduce and control product costs; •warranty costs and reserves, including changes resulting from changes in estimates related to the long-term performance of our products, product replacement costs and warranty claim rates; •loss of cost savings due to changes in component or raw material pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if product demand is not correctly anticipated; •introduction of new products;•ordering patterns from our distributors; •price reductions on older products to sell remaining inventory; •our ability to reduce production costs, such as through technology innovations, in order to offset price declines in older products over time; •changes in shipment volume; •changes in distribution channels; •excess and obsolete inventory and inventory holding charges; and •expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements. 11Table of ContentsFluctuations in gross profit may adversely affect our ability to manage our business or achieve or maintain profitability.The inverter industry is highly competitive and we expect to face increased competition as new and existing competitors introduce microinverter products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. To date, we have competed primarily against central inverter manufacturers and until recently have faced little direct competition in selling our microinverter systems. Marketing and selling our microinverter systems against traditional inverter solutions is highly competitive. Currently, competitors in the inverter market range from large companies such as SMA Solar Technology AG, Fronius International GmbH and Power-One Inc. to emerging companies offering alternative microinverter or other solar electronics products. Several of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for these products and technologies. Further, certain competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than we can and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or that provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive or below-market pricing levels, which could cause us to lose sales or market share or require us to lower prices for our microinverter systems in order to compete effectively. Suppliers of solar products, particularly solar modules, have experienced eroding prices over the last several years and as a result many have faced margin compression and declining revenues. If we have to reduce our prices by more than we anticipated, or if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our revenues and gross profit would suffer.We expect competition to intensify as new and existing competitors enter the microinverter market and additional add-on components like DC-to-DC optimizers that can be used with central inverters gain traction. We believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing microinverters and other products that will compete directly with our microinverter systems. SMA Solar Technology AG and Power-One Inc. have recently introduced microinverter products. In addition, several new entrants to the microinverter market have recently announced plans to ship or have already shipped products, including some of our OEM customers and partners.We also may face competition from some of our customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. For instance, solar module manufacturers could attempt to develop components that directly perform DC to AC conversion in the module itself. Due to the fact that such customers may not seek to make a profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a lower cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers may purchase fewer of our microinverter systems or sell products that compete with our microinverters systems, which would negatively impact our revenue and gross profit.Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to continue to incur additional warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and cause our revenue and gross profit to decline. We have offered 15-year limited warranties for our first and second generation microinverters and offer a limited warranty of up to 25 years on our third and fourth generation microinverters. Our limited warranties cover defects in materials and workmanship of our microinverters under normal use and service conditions for up to 25 years following installation. As a result, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have sold the product and recognized revenue. Our estimated costs of warranty for previously sold products may change to the extent future products are not compatible with earlier generation products under warranty.While we offer warranties of up to 25 years, our microinverters have only been in use since mid-2008, when we first commenced commercial sales of our products. Although we conduct accelerated life cycle testing to measure performance and reliability, our microinverter systems have not been tested over the full warranty cycle and do not have a sufficient operating history to confirm how they will perform over their estimated useful life. In addition, under real-world operating conditions, which may vary by location and design, as well as insolation, soiling and weather conditions, a typical solar PV installation may perform in a different way than under standard test conditions. If our products perform below expectations or have unexpected reliability problems, we may be unable to gain or retain customers and could face substantial warranty expense.We are required to make assumptions and apply judgments, based on our accelerated life cycle testing and the limited operating history of our products, regarding a number of factors, including the durability and reliability of our products, our anticipated rate of warranty claims and the costs of replacement of defective products. Our assumptions have proven and could in the future prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our products, which has caused and may in 12Table of Contentsthe future cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Increases in our estimates of future warranty obligations due to actual product failure rates, field service obligations and rework costs incurred in correcting product failures have caused and could in the future cause us to materially increase the amount of warranty obligations, and have had and may have in the future a corresponding negative impact on our results of operations.We also depend significantly on our reputation for reliability and high-quality products and services, exceptional customer service and our brand name to attract new customers and grow our business. If our products and services do not perform as anticipated or we experience unexpected reliability problems or widespread product failures, our brand and reputation could be significantly impaired and we may lose, or be unable to gain or retain, customers.Defects and poor performance in our products could result in loss of customers, decreased revenue and unexpected expenses, and we may face warranty, indemnity and product liability claims arising from defective products.Our products must meet stringent quality requirements and may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new generations are released. Errors, defects or poor performance can arise due to design flaws, defects in raw materials or components or manufacturing difficulties, which can affect both the quality and the yield of the product. These errors or defects may be dangerous, as defective power components may cause power overloads, potentially resulting in explosion or fire. As we develop new generations of our products and enter new markets, we face higher risk of undetected defects, because our testing protocols may not be able to fully test the products under all possible operating conditions. In the past, we have experienced defects in our products due to certain errors in the manufacturing and design process. Any actual or perceived errors, defects or poor performance in our products could result in the replacement or recall of our products, shipment delays, rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diversion of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts in order to address or remedy any defects and increases in customer service and support costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.Furthermore, defective, inefficient or poorly performing power components may give rise to warranty, indemnity or product liability claims against us that exceed any revenue or profit we receive from the affected products. We could incur significant costs and liabilities if we are sued and if damages are awarded against us. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, and there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain this coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition. Costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty and product liability claims or product recalls may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our Enlighten web-based monitoring service, which our customers use to track and monitor the performance of their solar PV systems based on our product platform, may contain undetected errors, failures, or bugs, especially when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our service and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. Any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our monitoring service could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses.If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results may suffer. We have recently experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant growth in our sales and operations. Our historical growth has placed, and planned future growth is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to:•manage a larger organization; •expand third-party manufacturing, testing and distribution capacity; •build additional custom manufacturing test equipment; •manage an increasing number of relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties; •increase our sales and marketing efforts; •train and manage a growing employee base; •broaden our customer support capabilities; •implement new and upgrade existing operational and financial systems; and •enhance our financial disclosure controls and procedures. 13Table of ContentsWe cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation, business or prospects.Our recent and planned expansion into new markets could subject us to additional business, financial and competitive risks. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets and Australia. We also intend to expand into other international markets and to introduce new microinverter systems targeted at larger commercial and utility-scale installations. Our success in these new geographic and product markets will depend on a number of factors, such as:•acceptance of microinverters in markets in which they have not traditionally been used; •our ability to compete in new product markets to which we are not accustomed; •our ability to manage an increasing manufacturing capacity and production; •willingness of our potential customers to incur a higher upfront capital investment than may be required for competing solutions; •our ability to develop solutions to address the requirements of the larger commercial and utility-scale markets; •timely qualification and certification of new products for larger commercial and utility-scale installations; •our ability to reduce production costs in order to price our products competitively over time; •availability of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy solutions; •accurate forecasting and effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and •our customer service capabilities and responsiveness. Further, new geographic markets and the larger commercial and utility-scale installation markets have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently sell products, and our success will depend on our ability to properly address these differences. These differences may include:•differing regulatory requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, labor, safety, local content and consumer protection regulations, tariffs, export quotas, customs d