BusinessOur CompanyWe deliver simple, innovative and reliable energy management solutions that advance the worldwide potential of renewable energy. Our semiconductor-based microinverter system converts direct current (DC) electricity to alternating current (AC) electricity at the individual solar module level, and brings a system-based, high technology approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, networking, and cloud-based software technologies. Our technology was designed to increase energy production, simplify design and installation, improve system uptime and reliability, reduce fire safety risk, and provide a platform for intelligent energy management. We are the market leader in the microinverter category. Since inception, we have shipped more than 10.3 million microinverters, representing over 2.5 gigawatts of solar PV generating capacity, and more than 430,000 Enphase residential and commercial systems have been deployed in over 100 countries.  We were incorporated as PVI Solutions, Inc. in March 2006 in the State of Delaware and changed our name to Enphase Energy, Inc. in July 2007.Industry BackgroundHistorically, traditional central inverters were the only inverter technology used for solar photovoltaic, or PV installations. In an installation consisting of a traditional central inverter, the solar PV modules are connected in series strings. In a large installation, there are multiple series strings connected in parallel. The aggregated voltage from each of these strings is then fed into a large central inverter. As compared to microinverter systems, we believe that traditional central inverters have a number of design and performance challenges limiting innovation and their ability to reduce the cost of solar systems, including the following:•Productivity limits. If solar modules are wired using a traditional central inverter—group or “string” of modules are wired in series—an entire string’s output is limited by the output of the lowest-performing module. Because of its string design, there is a single point of failure risk with the traditional central inverter approach.•Reliability issues. Traditional central inverters are the single most common component of solar installations to fail, resulting in system downtime and adversely impacting total energy output. As a result, central inverters typically carry warranties of only 5 to 10 years.•Complex design and installation requirements. The central inverter-based solar PV installation requires greater effort on the part of the installer, both in terms of design and on-site labor. Central inverter installations require string design and calculations for safe and reliable operation, as well as specialized equipment such as DC combiners, conduits and disconnects. In addition, the use of high-voltage DC requires specialized knowledge and training and safety precautions to install central inverter technology.•Lack of monitoring. The majority of solar installations with central inverter technology offer limited monitoring capabilities. A failure of the central inverter will often go unnoticed for days or even weeks. If a module fails or 2Table of Contentsis not performing to specification, the resulting loss of energy can go unnoticed for an extended period of time.•Safety issues. Central inverter solar PV installations have a wide distribution of high-voltage (600 volts to 1,000 volts) DC wiring. If damaged, DC wires can generate sustained electrical arcs, reaching temperatures of more than 5,000 °F. This creates the risk of fire for solar PV installation owners and injury for installers and maintenance personnel.These challenges of traditional central inverters have a direct impact on the cost and expected return on investment of solar installations to both installers and system owners:•Installer. Solar PV installers aim for simple installation design, fast installation times and maximum system performance and predictability. The installation of high-voltage DC central inverter technology, however, requires significant preparation, precautionary safety measures, time-consuming string calculations, extensive design expertise and specialized installation equipment, training and knowledge. Together, these factors significantly increase complexity and cost of installation and limit overall productivity for the installer.•System owner. Solar system owners aim for high energy production, low cost, high reliability, and low maintenance requirements, as well as reduced fire risks. With traditional central inverters, owners often are unable to optimize the size or shape of their solar PV installations due to string design limitations. As such, they experience performance loss from shading and other obstructions, can face frequent system failures and lack the ability to effectively monitor the performance of their solar PV installation. In addition, central inverter installations operate at high-voltage DC which bears significant fire risks. Further, due to their large size, central inverter installations can affect architectural aesthetics of the house or commercial building.Our ProductsWe design, develop, manufacture and sell microinverter systems. We have revolutionized the solar industry by bringing a systems approach to solar technology and by pioneering a semiconductor-based microinverter that converts energy at the individual solar module level and, combined with our proprietary networking and software technologies, provides advanced energy monitoring and control. This is vastly different than the central inverter approach that only converts energy of the entire array of solar modules from a single high voltage electrical unit, and lacks intelligence about the energy producing capacity of the solar array.The Enphase microinverter system brings a high technology, networked approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, and cloud-based software technologies. Our unique approach to solar maximizes the potential energy production of each individual solar module while providing advanced monitoring and remote maintenance capabilities. Unlike our core competitors, who utilize a single-point or traditional inverter, we have built-in system redundancy, eliminating the risk that comes with a single-point of failure. Further, the nature of our cloud-based, monitored system allows for remote firmware and software updates, enabling cost-effective remote maintenance and ongoing utility compliance.The Enphase microinverter system consists of three key components: Enphase microinverters, an Envoy gateway and Enlighten cloud-based software:•Enphase microinverters provide highly reliable power conversion at the individual solar module level by introducing a digital architecture that incorporates custom application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, specialized power electronics devices, and an embedded software subsystem that maximizes energy production from each module. •The Envoy bi-directional communications gateway is installed at the system location and serves as a hub providing two critical roles: collecting and sending data to Enlighten software, and receiving and distributing microinverter firmware or software updates, thus increasing system availability and providing ongoing utility compliance. One Envoy is typically sold with each solar installation and can support up to 600 Enphase microinverters, making it compatible for both residential and commercial applications. Finally, with a simple additional accessory, an Envoy can also monitor home energy consumption, providing system owners with greater insight as to their energy usage.•Our Enlighten cloud-based software provides the capabilities to remotely monitor, manage, and maintain an individual system or a fleet of systems. The software collects and analyzes system performance information to enable owners and operators to realize the highest performance of their solar PV system. Two versions of the monitoring software are available: MyEnlighten, designed for the typical system owner, provides performance assurance and Enlighten Manager, available for the solar professional, provides detailed diagnostic capabilities, as well as fleet management tools.  3Table of ContentsKey elements of our solution include:  Higher Performance. Our microinverter system delivers higher performance by maximizing the energy production of each module. A microinverter at each module overcomes issues such as module-mismatch and soiling or shading which can have a significant impact on string inverter systems.  Enphase microinverters also provide greater system availability with no single-point of failure. An independent analysis from PV Evolution Labs has concluded an Enphase microinverter system yields higher performance over systems with string inverters or traditional inverters. We believe that our microinverter systems achieve higher energy production and can generate superior returns on investment relative to competitive solutions for system owners. Simplified Design and Installation. With our microinverter system, an installer can design a system of any size and any roof configuration with a simple modular approach. After initial installation, the system can be easily expanded by even a single module. The all-AC infrastructure simplifies the design process and eliminates the typical costs of a complicated DC voltage system. In addition, our microinverters are installed on the roof and hidden from view, with minimal impact to the aesthetics of a home or building. We also offer additional tools, such as the Enphase Installer Toolkit mobile app or the Enphase AC Combiner Box, to further improve installation time and reduce balance of system materials costs. Enhanced Safety. Microinverters are safer because they process low voltage DC and are isolated to the module level, leading to an all-AC architecture. Our microinverter system does not contain any of the high voltages common to string inverter systems. High voltage arc faults associated with string or traditional inverters are the leading cause of fires of solar PV installations. Microinverter technology mitigates this safety risk.Reduced Operations and Maintenance Costs. Our microinverter system is highly reliable with one million power-on hours of testing incorporated into our microinverter design. This high reliability, plus a distributed architecture means ongoing operations and maintenance do not require emergency truck rolls, unlike string inverter or traditional inverters which have a 100% probability of failure leading to full replacement within 10 to 12 years, thus reducing the inverter replacement budget required. In addition, with module-level monitoring capabilities, remote maintenance can pinpoint issues, thus reducing any time on site. Finally, the networked-nature of our system enables us to remotely update the firmware and software of the microinverters, reducing ongoing utility compliance costs.  Product Roadmap Our products are part of an integrated energy solution. Our product roadmap is divided into three categories that form the components and platform for our energy management solution: microinverters, energy storage, and system monitoring and control. Microinverters.  Our microinverter roadmap provides a path to substantially lower unit cost, simplified installation process, higher performance and enhanced features. We have announced partnerships to integrate our next generation microinverter into a PV module to create an AC Module that should further simplify system design and installation. Energy Storage. We are developing an energy storage system, including our AC Battery that will integrate with our microinverter system to provide the Enphase Energy Solution. Our energy storage system uses modular all-AC architecture.  System Monitoring and Control.  Our cloud-based monitoring gathers more than 2TB of data per day from more than 345,000 actively monitored systems. The introduction of consumption monitoring provides additional opportunities to give system owners further control over and insight into their systems. Furthermore, the rich data available from the systems has enabled the growth of our solar operations and maintenance services through Enphase Energy Services. Our StrategyOur objective is to be the leading provider of energy management solutions for the solar industry worldwide. Key elements of our strategy include:•Grow market share in our core markets. We intend to capitalize on our market leadership in the microinverter category and our momentum with installers and owners to expand our market share position in our core markets.•Enter new geographic markets. We intend to further increase our market share in Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin America. In addition, we intend to expand into new markets with new and existing products and local go-to-market capabilities.4Table of Contents•Expand our product offerings. We continue to make significant R&D investments to develop all components of our energy management solution and remain committed to providing our partners with best-in-class power electronics, storage solutions, communications, and load control all managed by a cloud-based energy management system.•Increase power and efficiency and reduce cost per Watt. Our engineering team is focused on continuing to increase average power conversion efficiency above 97% and AC output power beyond 280 watts. We intend to continue to leverage our semiconductor integration, power electronics expertise and manufacturing economies of scale to further reduce cost per watt. •Extend our technological innovation. We distinguish ourselves from other inverter companies with our systems-based and high technology approach, and the ability to leverage strong research and development capabilities. As of December 31, 2015, we had 69 issued U.S. patents, 74 issued foreign patents, 90 pending U.S. patent applications and 126 pending foreign counterpart patent applications. •Grow our Enphase Energy Services business. With the addition of Next Phase Solar, a division of Enphase Energy, we have bolstered our asset management and operations and maintenance services to support the increasing demand for services in the residential, commercial and utility scale PV systems.Customers and SalesWe currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, Mexico and certain Central American markets, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets, Australia, New Zealand and certain other Asian markets. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to solar distributors who resell to installers and integrators, who in turn integrate our products into complete solar PV installations for residential and commercial system owners. We work with many of the leading solar and electrical distributors. In addition to our distributors, we sell directly to large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Our OEM customers include solar module manufacturers who bundle our products and solutions with their solar module products and resell to both distributors and installers. Strategic partners include a variety of companies including industrial equipment suppliers and providers of solar financing solutions. In 2015, CED Greentech and Vivint Solar, Inc. accounted for 17% and 12% of net revenues, respectively. Historically, revenues generated from the U.S. market have represented more than 80% of our total revenue. Manufacturing, Quality Control and Key SuppliersWe outsource the manufacturing of our products to two key manufacturing partners, Flextronics International Ltd. and Phoenix Contact GmbH & Co. KG. Flextronics assembles and tests our microinverter and Envoy products. Prices for such services are mutually agreed to by the parties on a quarterly basis and we are obligated to purchase manufactured products and raw materials that cannot be resold upon the termination of the agreement. Flextronics also provides receiving, kitting, storage, transportation, inventory visibility and other value-added logistics services at locations managed by Flextronics. Phoenix manufactures our custom AC cable. In addition, we rely on several unaffiliated companies to supply certain components used in the fabrication of our microinverter system. Customer ServiceWe maintain high levels of customer engagement through our customer support group and the Enlighten cloud-based software portal, and have cultivated an organizational focus on customer satisfaction. Our dedicated customer support group focuses on responding to inbound inquiries regarding any of our products and services. As of December 31, 2015, our customer support staff consisted of 59 employees in the United States, 10 employees in Europe and 5 employees in Australia.Research and DevelopmentWe devote substantial resources to research and development with the objective of developing new products and systems, adding new features to existing products and systems and reducing unit costs. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that reduce the cost and optimize the effectiveness of our energy management solutions for our customers. We measure the effectiveness of our research and development against metrics, including product unit cost, efficiency, reliability, power output and ease-of-use. As of December 31, 2015, our research and development staff consisted of 229 employees, of whom 195 were located in the United States and the remainder primarily located in New Zealand. Our research and development expenses were $50.8 million, $45.4 million and $34.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.5Table of ContentsIntellectual Property Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary technologies. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, confidentiality agreements and procedures and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. As of December 31, 2015, we had 69 issued U.S. patents, 74 issued foreign patents, 90 pending U.S. patent applications and 126 pending foreign counterpart patent applications. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire between years 2027 and 2032. We license certain power line communications technology and software for integration into our ASICs pursuant to a fully-paid, royalty-free license, which includes the right for us to source directly from the licensor’s suppliers or manufacture certain ASIC hardware should the licensor fail, under certain conditions, to deliver such technology in the future. This license includes a limited exclusivity period during which the licensor has agreed not to license the licensed technology to any third party manufacturer of electronic components or systems for use in the solar energy market. The license carries a seventy-five year term, subject to earlier termination upon mutual agreement of the parties, or by us in connection with the insolvency of the licensor. We also license digital intellectual property cores, or IP blocks, for integration into and distribution with certain electronic components built into our products, including our ASICs, complex programmable logic devices, or CPLDs, and field-programmable gate arrays, or FPGAs. This is a fully-paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license providing for the integration of such digital IP blocks in an unlimited number of electronic component designs and the distribution of such electronic components with our products. Other than in connection with the distribution of our products, our use of such digital IP blocks is limited to certain of our business sites. The license is perpetual, subject to earlier termination by either party upon the termination, suspension or insolvency of the other party’s business, or by the licensor upon a breach of the license agreement by us. In addition, we license open source software from third parties for integration into our Envoy products. Such open source software is licensed under open source licenses. These licenses are perpetual and require us to attribute the source of the software to the original software developer, which we provide via our website. We continually assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology, designs and methodologies and processes that we believe provide significant competitive advantages. A majority of our patents relate to DC to AC power conversion for alternative energy power systems, as well as power system monitoring, control and management systems. With respect to, among other things, proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe that many elements of our microinverter manufacturing process involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical processes, test equipment designs, algorithms and procedures.  All of our research and development personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection issues and require our employees to assign to us all of the inventions, designs and technologies they develop during the course of employment with us.  We also require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our microinverter, technology or business plans. Seasonality Historically, sales of our products in the second, third and fourth quarters have been positively affected by seasonal customer demand trends, including solar economic incentives, weather patterns and construction cycles, followed by a seasonally softer first quarter. Although these seasonal factors are common in the solar sector, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance.CompetitionThe markets for our products are highly competitive, and we compete with traditional inverter manufacturers and new technology start-ups. The principal areas in which we compete with other companies include:•Product performance and features;•Total cost of ownership;•Breadth of product line;•Local sales and distribution capabilities;•Module compatibility and interoperability;6Table of Contents•Reliability and duration of product warranty;•Technological expertise;•Brand recognition and customer service and support;•Compliance with industry standards and certifications;•Compliance with current and planned local electrical codes;•Integration with storage offerings;•Size and financial stability of operations;•Size of installed base; and•Local manufacturing and product content.Competitors in the inverter market are, amongst others, SMA Solar Technology AG, Fronius International GmbH, ABB Ltd. and SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., and other emerging companies offering alternative microinverter, DC to DC optimizer and other power electronic solutions. We principally compete with the large, incumbent solar inverter companies because traditional central inverter solutions can be used as alternatives to our microinverter solution. We believe, however, that our microinverter solutions offer significant advantages and competitive differentiation relative to traditional central or string inverter technology, even when traditional central or string inverter technology is supplemented by DC-to-DC optimizers. Employees  As of December 31, 2015, we had 543 employees. Of the full-time employees, 229 were engaged in research and development, 181 in sales and marketing, 53 in a general and administrative capacity and 80 in manufacturing and operations. Of these employees, 463 were in the United States, 32 in both Europe and New Zealand, 14 in Australia and two employees in Canada. None of our U.S., New Zealand, U.K., and Australia employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us; however, our employees in France and Italy are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any employment-related work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.  Available Information We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We make available on our website at www.enphase.com (under “Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings”), free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The contents of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.7Table of Contents