BUSINESSCORPORATE BACKGROUNDGeneralIntuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.Our flagship brands, QuickBooks and TurboTax, help more than 42 million customers run their small businesses, pay employees and bills, separate business and personal expenses, track their money, and file income taxes. ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants. We had revenue of $5.2 billion in our fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, with approximately 8,200 employees in major offices in the United States, Canada, India, the United Kingdom, Israel, Australia, and other locations.Intuit Inc. was incorporated in California in March 1984. We reincorporated in Delaware and completed our initial public offering in March 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 2700 Coast Avenue, Mountain View, California, 94043, and our main telephone number is 650-944-6000. Our corporate website, www.intuit.com, provides materials for investors and information relating to Intuit’s corporate governance. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. When we refer to “we,” “our” or “Intuit” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (Intuit Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries.Available InformationWe file reports required of public companies with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and amendments to these reports. The public may read and copy the materials we file with or furnish to the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website all of the reports we file with or furnish to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished. Copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Intuit Inc., P.O. Box 7850, Mountain View, California 94039-7850 or by calling 650-944-6000.BUSINESS OVERVIEWIntuit’s MissionWe are a global finance and compliance platform company committed to powering prosperity around the world. Our customers include consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed. Working with a broad array of vital partners – accountants, developers, financial institutions, schools, governments and other platform companies, such as Apple and Google – we strive to deliver three benefits that matter most to our customers:•Making more money: Helping consumers save money, and enabling small businesses and the self-employed to grow and prosper.•Eliminating work: Turning drudgery into time for what matters most.•Having complete confidence: Providing peace of mind when making financial or compliance decisions.We build durable competitive advantage by delivering personalized experiences via our trusted open platform that builds connections between customers, partners and products, as described in our Growth Strategy below.  4Tables of ContentsOur Business PortfolioWe organize our businesses into three reportable segments – Small Business, Consumer Tax, and ProConnect. Small Business:  This segment targets small businesses, the self-employed, and the accounting professionals who serve and advise them around the globe. Our offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, and payment processing solutions. Consumer Tax:  This segment targets consumers and includes TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada.ProConnect:  This segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our ProConnect professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, ProFile, and ProConnect Tax Online. Our Growth StrategyAs emerging technology and market trends change the way people live and work, we change too. For more than three decades, we have continuously re-invented ourselves from a desktop business to the web and mobile. Our assessment of external trends – the emergence and influence of the digital generation, the evolution of social networks as a means to accomplish important financial tasks and growth in the self-employed workforce – reveals significant opportunities to drive future growth. The result is a global market that is shifting from traditional services that are manual in nature to more automated, interconnected services that work on platforms and increasingly rely on artificial intelligence and machine learning. Our strategy is built on the strength of our One Intuit Ecosystem, a connected, one-stop destination for customers to make their financial lives easier. Our evolving strategy focuses on three elements: •Personalized experiences: With deep expertise and customer-provided data, we can create increasingly valuable personalized experiences that delight and serve our customers. For example, our TurboTax solutions use machine learning to create a customized interview, asking questions uniquely tailored to each individual situation. By delivering an amazing end-to-end experience, we offer customers the value they expect from our offerings as quickly and easily as possible.•Trusted open platform: With a secure, open platform, we allow real-time access to – and use of – high-quality data to internal and external developers, speeding our ability to embrace new technology, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning. One example of this is our QuickBooks open platform, where small businesses and accountants can install apps created by third-party developers to enhance the functionality and personalization of the QuickBooks experience.•Indispensable connections: Within our One Intuit Ecosystem we strive to build connections between customers, partners, and products on our platform. For example, TurboTax customers can obtain a credit score using technology first found in our Mint personal finance offering. We are well positioned to succeed in this new environment, with connected services (total service and other revenue) generating $3.8 billion, or 73 percent, of our total revenue in fiscal 2017.SummaryAs the external environment evolves, we adapt our strategy to meet these changes. Our commitment remains consistent and has been our success formula for more than 30 years: a focus on developing innovative financial and compliance products and services that are easy to use and are available where and when customers need them. As a result, our customers actively recommend our products and solutions to others, which is one important way that we measure the success of our strategy. PRODUCTS AND SERVICESDuring fiscal 2017 we offered our products and services in the three segments described in “Business Overview” above. The following table shows the classes of similar products or services that accounted for 5% or more of total net revenue within the last three fiscal years. Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2015      Small Business50% 49% 50%Consumer Tax42% 42% 43%ProConnect8% 9% 7% 5Tables of ContentsInternational total net revenue was less than 5% of consolidated total net revenue for fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016, and fiscal 2015. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Our international operations are subject to increased risks which may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition,” for a discussion of risks relating to our international operations.For financial information about our segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and Note 13 to the financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report.Small BusinessOur Small Business segment targets small businesses, the self-employed, and the accounting professionals who serve and advise them around the world. Our offerings include QuickBooks financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll and payment processing solutions, and financial supplies. QuickBooks Online Services and Desktop Software. Our easy-to-use QuickBooks financial management solutions help small businesses, the self-employed, and accounting professionals solve financial and compliance problems, make more money and reduce unnecessary work, while giving them complete confidence in their actions and decisions. Users can track income and expenses, create and send invoices and estimates, manage and pay bills, and review a variety of financial reports. Our QuickBooks offering is accessible online and via a desktop version.QuickBooks is built on an open platform, allowing third-party developers to create online and mobile applications that integrate with our offering. A growing number of companies offer applications built for our QuickBooks platform, including PayPal, Shopify, Square, and Bill.com. In addition to our core QuickBooks offering, we also offer specific solutions for the following customer segments:•Self-Employed. QuickBooks Self-Employed is designed specifically for self-employed customers whose needs are different than small businesses that use QuickBooks. Features include categorizing business and personal transactions, identifying and classifying tax deductible expenses, tracking mileage, calculating estimated quarterly taxes and sending invoices. QuickBooks Self-Employed can be combined with TurboTax to export and pay year-end taxes. QuickBooks Self-Employed is available both online and via a mobile application. •Accountants. QuickBooks Online Accountant is available to accounting professionals who use QuickBooks offerings and recommend them to their small business clients. This offering provides the tools and file-sharing capabilities that accounting professionals need to efficiently complete bookkeeping and financial reporting tasks and to manage their practices. We also offer membership in the QuickBooks ProAdvisor program, providing QuickBooks Online Accountant and QuickBooks Online Payroll services, technical support, training, product certification, access to marketing tools, and discounts on Intuit products and services purchased on behalf of clients.•Enterprise. Our QuickBooks Enterprise offering is designed for larger small businesses that have outgrown our QuickBooks product, and is available as a hosted or server-based solution. This offering provides industry-specific reports and features for a range of industries, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit, and Retail.Payroll Solutions. We offer two levels of payroll solutions that are sold on a subscription basis and seamlessly integrate with our QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Desktop offerings. Our basic payroll offering includes online payroll processing, direct deposit of employee paychecks, payroll reports, electronic payment of federal and state payroll taxes, and electronic filing of federal and state payroll tax forms. In addition, our full-service payroll offering provides comprehensive payroll services to QuickBooks customers who prefer not to perform payroll tasks themselves.Payment Processing Solutions. Our full range of merchant services for small businesses includes credit card, debit card, electronic benefits, and gift card processing services; check verification, check guarantee, and electronic check conversion, including automated clearing house capabilities. We also provide web-based transaction processing services for online merchants. In addition to transaction processing services, our broad support for our clients includes customer service, merchant and consumer collections, chargeback and retrieval support, and fraud and loss prevention screening. We also offer e-invoicing, which allows small businesses to email invoices directly from QuickBooks with a Pay Now link and enables customers to instantly pay online or from their mobile device.Financial Supplies. We offer a range of financial supplies designed for individuals and small businesses that use our QuickBooks offerings. These include standard paper checks and Secure Plus checks with CheckLock fraud protection features; envelopes, invoices and deposit slips; and business identity products, such as business cards and stationery. We also offer tax forms, tax return presentation folders and other supplies for professional tax preparers.  6Tables of ContentsConsumer TaxOur TurboTax products and services are designed to enable individuals to prepare and file their own federal and state personal income tax returns quickly and accurately. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax returns. Most of these offerings are available on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets.Tax Return Preparation Offerings. For the 2016 tax season we offered a range of software products and services that included TurboTax Basic, for simple returns; TurboTax Deluxe, for taxpayers who itemize deductions; TurboTax Premier, for taxpayers who own investments or rental property; and TurboTax Home and Business and TurboTax Self-Employed, for small business owners. We also offered TurboTax Free Edition for the simplest returns. We offered live tax advice from U.S.-based tax professionals to TurboTax customers during the 2016 tax season. With SmartLook, customers can connect with a live expert and get guidance right on their screen. TurboTax AnswerXchange is an online forum where participants can learn from and share information with other users while preparing their income tax returns. For the 2016 tax season our online tax preparation and filing services were offered through the websites of thousands of financial institutions, electronic retailers, and other online merchants. Financial institutions can offer our online tax preparation and filing services to their customers through a link to TurboTax Online. Our TurboTax U.S. and Canada offerings consist of desktop, online, and mobile offerings.Electronic Filing and Other Services. Our desktop, online, and mobile tax preparation customers can electronically file their federal and state income tax returns through our electronic filing center. For the 2016 tax season TurboTax customers had the option to receive their income tax refunds on a prepaid debit card that we provided through a partner. We also offered audit defense, audit support, identity restoration services, and credit scores.Intuit Tax Freedom Project. Under the Intuit Tax Freedom Project, we provide online federal and state income tax return preparation and electronic filing services at no charge to eligible taxpayers. For the 2016 tax season we provided approximately 1.2 million free federal returns under this initiative. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that has entered into an agreement with the federal government to provide free online federal tax preparation and filing services to eligible taxpayers. See also “Competition – Consumer Tax Segment” later in this Item 1 for more information on the Free File Alliance.ProConnectOur ProConnect segment targets professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our ProConnect professional tax offerings enable accountants to accurately and efficiently complete and electronically file a full range of consumer, small business, and commercial federal and state tax returns with both desktop and online offerings. Lacerte is designed for full-service accounting firms who handle more complex returns. We offer two versions of our ProSeries software: ProSeries Professional Edition, designed for year-round tax practices handling moderately complex tax returns, and ProSeries Basic Edition, designed for the needs of smaller and seasonal tax practices. ProConnect Tax Online is our cloud-based solution which is designed for year-round practices who prepare moderately complex consumer and small business returns and integrates with our QuickBooks Online offerings. ProFile is our Canadian tax offering which serves year-round full-service accounting firms for both consumer and business tax returns. We offer a variety of tax-related services that complement the tax return preparation process including year-round document storage and access, collaboration services, e-signature, and bank products.PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTSince the markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements, a continuous high level of investment is required to innovate and quickly develop new products and services as well as enhance existing offerings. Our product development efforts are becoming more important than ever as we pursue our growth strategy.We develop many of our products and services internally, and we have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. We also supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third-party technology relationships as we continue to pursue our growth strategy.While our traditional desktop software products – QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, and ProSeries – tend to have predictable annual development and product release cycles, as we move to more online offerings and mobile applications, the development cycles are becoming more rapid. In addition, developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate federal and state tax law and tax form changes within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our small business payroll and merchant payment processing services offerings varies with business needs and regulatory requirements and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity of each project.We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services and on developing new products and services, including new  7Tables of Contentsmobile and global offerings. We also expect to continue to focus significant research and development efforts on ongoing projects to update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. Our research and development expenses were $998 million or 19% of total net revenue in fiscal 2017; $881 million or 19% of total net revenue in fiscal 2016; and $798 million or 19% of total net revenue in fiscal 2015.SEASONALITYOur Consumer Tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns. As a result, during each of the last three fiscal years the total revenue for our third quarter ended April 30 has represented nearly half of our total revenue for those years. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer Tax business to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future.MARKETING, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELSMarketsOur primary target customers are consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners to help us reach small business customers. The markets in which we compete have always been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements by competitors. Over the past several years, the widespread availability of the Internet, mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that customers learn about, evaluate, and purchase products and services. Real-time, personalized online and mobile shopping experiences have become the standard. In addition, many customers now begin shopping in one channel and ultimately purchase in another. This has created a need for integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy experiences. Market and industry changes quickly make existing products and services obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or enhanced products and services, alternative distribution methods, and other changes in the way we do business.Marketing ProgramsWe use a variety of traditional and innovative marketing programs to generate orders, stimulate demand, and generally maintain and increase customer awareness of our product portfolio. These programs include: digital marketing and targeted advertising, such as search engine optimization and purchasing keywords from major search engine companies; placing and promoting our mobile applications in proprietary online stores; direct-response mail and e-mail campaigns; telephone solicitations; newspaper, magazine, billboard, radio, and television advertising; social media campaigns; and coordinated promotional offers with major retailers. We also use workflow-integrated, in-product discovery in some of our offerings to market other related products and services, including third-party products and services. In addition, we create marketing campaigns that are designed to attract new users through trial promotional offerings.Sales and Distribution ChannelsMulti-Channel Shop-and-Buy Experiences. Our customers increasingly use the Internet and mobile devices to research products and services. Some customers buy and use our products and services entirely online or through their mobile devices. Others purchase desktop products and services using the Internet. Still others make their final decision at a retail location. Although retail sales of our products and services are gradually declining as online distribution channels grow in importance, we continue to coordinate our websites, promotions, and retail displays to support an integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy model. Direct Sales Channel. We sell many of our products and services directly through our websites and call centers. Telesales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers that want live help to select the products and services that are right for their needs. We also have a direct sales force that calls on U.S. and international accountant firms and seeks to increase their awareness, usage, and recommendation of our Small Business solutions.Retail Channel. We sell our QuickBooks and TurboTax desktop software as well as payroll services and merchant credit card payment processing services at retail locations across the United States. We sell these products and services directly and through distributors to office supply superstores, warehouse clubs, consumer electronics retailers, general mass merchandisers, online retailers, and catalogs. In Canada and the United Kingdom, we also rely on distributors and other third parties who sell products into the retail channel. The retail channel provides broad customer reach through retailer-sponsored advertising and exposure to retail foot traffic. This channel also gives us the opportunity to communicate our products, services, and messages through multiple touch points and allows us to serve our customers at relatively modest cost.Mobile Application Stores.  We distribute many of our offerings for mobile devices through proprietary online stores that provide applications for specific devices. These include the Apple App Store, which provides apps for the Apple iPhone and iPad, and Google’s Play Store, which provides apps for Android-compatible smartphones and tablets.  8Tables of ContentsOther Channels. We sell our consumer and small business products and services through selected alliance partners and accountants that help us reach new customers at the point of need and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. Solution providers combine our products and services with value-added marketing, sales, and technical expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. As we expand our mobile and global offerings, we expect that strategic partnerships will become increasingly important to our business. COMPETITIONOverviewWe face intense competition in all of our businesses, both domestically and internationally. Competitive interest and expertise in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years and we expect this trend to continue. Some of our existing competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, the competitive landscape can shift rapidly as new companies enter markets in which we compete. This is particularly true for online and mobile products and services, where the barriers to entry are lower than they are for desktop software products and services. To attract customers, many online and mobile competitors are offering free or low-priced products which we must take into account in our pricing strategies.Our most obvious competition comes from other companies that offer technology solutions similar to ours. However, for many of our products and services, other important competitive alternatives for customers are third-party service providers such as professional accountants and seasonal assisted tax preparation businesses. Manual tools and processes, or general-purpose software, are also important competitive alternatives. Competition Specific to SegmentsSmall Business Segment. QuickBooks is the leading small business financial management software in the U.S. Our small business desktop products and services face competitive challenges from companies such as The Sage Group plc, which offers software and associated services that directly target small business customers. Our small business online products and services face competition from online accounting offerings from companies such as Xero and FreshBooks, free or low-cost online accounting offerings, and free online banking and bill payment services offered by financial institutions and others. In our payroll business we compete directly with Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP), Paychex, Gusto, and many other companies with payroll offerings, including online payroll offerings. In our merchant services business we compete directly with large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase, and Bank of America and with many payment processors, including First Data Corporation, Elavon, Global Payments, FIS, PayPal, and Square. Consumer Tax Segment. In our Consumer Tax segment, our future growth depends on our ability to attract new customers to the self-preparation tax category from tax stores and other tax preparers. In the U.S. private sector we face intense competition from H&R Block, which provides tax preparation services in its stores and a competing software offering. We also face competition from several other large tax preparation service providers, from a myriad of small tax preparers, and from numerous online self-preparation offerings, including Blucora’s TaxAct and Credit Karma. Some of these competitors are offering electronic tax preparation and filing services at no cost to individual taxpayers. In Canada, our TurboTax Canada offerings face competition from H&R Block, SimpleTax, StudioTax, and UFile. These competing offerings subject us to significant price pressure in both the U.S. and Canada.We also face competitive challenges from publicly funded government entities that offer electronic tax preparation and filing services at no cost to individual taxpayers. We are a member of the Free File Alliance, a consortium of private sector companies that has entered into an agreement with the federal government. Under this agreement, the member companies provide online federal tax preparation and filing services at no cost to the public or eligible federal taxpayers, and the federal government has agreed not to provide a competing service. Approximately 22 states have also adopted Free File Alliance public-private agreements while approximately 20 other states offer some form of direct government tax preparation and filing services free to qualified taxpayers. We continue to actively work with others in the private and public sectors to advance the goals of the Free File Alliance policy initiative and to support successful public-private partnerships. However, future administrative, regulatory, or legislative activity in this area could harm our Consumer Tax business.ProConnect Segment. In the U.S., Lacerte professional tax offerings face competition from competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions that include integration with non-tax functionality. These include CCH’s ProSystems fx Office Suite and Thomson Reuters’ CS Professional Suite and GoSystems Tax. Our ProSeries professional tax offerings face competition from CCH’s ATX and TaxWise offerings, Drake, and other smaller providers. In Canada, our ProFile professional tax offerings face competition from CCH’s Cantax and Taxprep offerings and from Thomson Reuters’ DTMax and UFile Pro offerings. We also face growing competition from online tax and accounting offerings in the U.S. and Canada, which may be marketed more effectively or have lower pricing than our offerings for accounting professionals.Competitive FactorsWe believe the most important competitive factors for our core offerings – QuickBooks, TurboTax, Lacerte, and ProSeries – are ease of use, product features, size of the installed customer base, brand name recognition, value proposition, cost, reliability,  9Tables of Contentssecurity, and product and support quality. Access to distribution channels is also important for our QuickBooks and TurboTax desktop software products. In addition, support from accounting professionals and the ability for customers to upgrade within product families as their businesses grow are significant competitive factors for our QuickBooks products. Productivity is an important competitive factor for the full-service accounting firms to which we market our Lacerte software products. We believe we compete effectively on these factors as our QuickBooks and TurboTax products are the leading products in the U.S. for their respective categories.For our service offerings such as small business payroll and merchant payment processing, we believe the most important competitive factors are functionality, ease of use, high availability, security, the integration of these products with related software, brand name recognition, effective distribution, quality of support, and cost.CUSTOMER SERVICE AND TECHNICAL SUPPORTWe provide customer service and technical support by telephone, e-mail, online and video chat, text messaging, online communities, and our customer service and technical support websites. We have full-time and outsourced customer service and technical support staffs. We supplement these staffs with seasonal employees and additional outsourcing during periods of peak call volumes, such as during the tax return filing season or following a major product launch. We outsource to several firms domestically and internationally. Most of our internationally outsourced small business customer service and technical support personnel are currently located in India and the Philippines.We offer free self-help information through our technical support websites for our QuickBooks, TurboTax and ProConnect offerings. Customers can also use our websites to find answers to commonly asked questions and check on the status of orders. Under certain paid support plans, customers can also use our websites to receive product updates electronically. Support alternatives and fees vary by product. We sponsor online user communities such as Intuit Community for small businesses and accounting professionals, and TurboTax Answ