Business—Competition” of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the competitive environment in the markets where we operate. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market.Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business.To process certain transactions, we must comply with applicable payment card network, bank or other network (collectively, “network”) rules. The rules govern all aspects of a transaction, including fees and other practices. From time to time, the networks have increased the fees and assessments that they charge for transactions that access their networks. Certain of the networks have also imposed special fees or assessments for transactions that are executed through a digital wallet such as the one that PayPal offers. Our payment processors may have the right to pass any increases in fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. Any increase in interchange fees, special fees, or assessments for transactions that we pay to our payment processors or the networks could make our pricing less competitive, increase our operating costs, and reduce our operating income, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In some jurisdictions, government regulations have required the payment card networks to reduce or cap interchange fees. Any changes in interchange fee rates or limitations, or their applicability to PayPal, could adversely affect our competitive position against traditional payment card service providers and the revenue we earn from our branded card programs, require us to change our business practices and harm our business.We may also be subject to fines assessed by the networks resulting from any rule violations by us or our merchants. The networks set and interpret their rules and have alleged from time to time that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. Such allegations may result in significant fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly and adversely affect our business. The network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise impact the development of, our retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively affect their deployment and adoption. The networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our payment processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement, which could require us to make significant changes to our products. If we become unable or limited in our ability to accept certain payment types such as debit or credit cards, our business would be adversely affected.Changes in how consumers fund their PayPal transactions could harm our business.We pay transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, from an existing PayPal account balance or Venmo account balance, or through our PayPal branded consumer credit products. Our financial performance is sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using  payment cards, which can significantly increase our costs. Although we provide consumers in certain markets with the opportunity to use their existing PayPal account balance or Venmo account balance to fund payment transactions, some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, which may offer features and benefits not provided as part of their PayPal accounts. An increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult or costly for us to fund transactions with lower-cost funding options, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business.Our ability to receive the benefit of our merchant lending offerings may be subject to challenge. Merchant loans and advances under our U.S. PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) and PayPal Business Loan (“PPBL”) products are provided by a state chartered industrial bank under a program agreement with us, and we acquire the receivables generated by those loans after origination. In June 2020, largely in response to the Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC case decided in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) approved a final rule clarifying that loans originated by state-chartered banks remain valid throughout the lifetime of the loan, reflecting a similar rule finalized by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency (“OCC”) in May 2020. The final rule reaffirms and codifies in regulation the so-called “valid-when-made doctrine,” which provides that the interest rate for a loan is determined when the 21Table of Contentsloan is made and will not be affected by subsequent events such as sale, assignment, or other transfer. A number of state attorneys general have challenged these FDIC and OCC rules, and there remains some uncertainty whether non-bank entities purchasing loan receivables originated by FDIC-insured, state chartered industrial banks, may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws and other state laws. An adverse outcome of these or similar challenges, or changes to applicable laws and regulations, could materially impact our U.S. PPWC and PPBL products and our business.Our credit products expose us to additional risks.We offer credit products to a wide range of consumers and merchants in the U.S. and various international markets. The financial success of these products depends on the effective management of related risk. The credit decision-making process for our consumer credit products uses proprietary methodologies and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on, among other factors, their past purchase and transaction history with PayPal or Venmo and their credit scores. Similarly, proprietary risk models and other indicators are applied to assess merchants who desire to use our merchant lending offerings to help predict their ability to repay. These risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to inaccurate assumptions, including those related to the particular consumer or merchant, market conditions, economic environment, or limited transaction history or other data. The accuracy of these risk models and the ability to manage credit risk related to our credit products may also be affected by legal or regulatory requirements, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment, issuing bank policies, and other factors. We generally rely on third-party chartered financial institutions to provide PayPal and Venmo branded consumer credit and  merchant lending offerings to our U.S. customers. As a service provider to these third-party chartered financial institutions, which are federally supervised U.S. financial institutions, we are subject from time to time to examination by their federal banking regulators. In the event of any termination or interruption in a partner bank’s ability or willingness to lend, our ability to offer consumer credit and merchant credit products could be interrupted or limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may be unable to reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution on favorable terms or at all. Obtaining licenses to originate such loans would be a costly, time-consuming and uncertain process, and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could significantly increase our costs and compliance obligations and require us to change our business practices.We are subject to the risk that account holders who use our credit products will default on their payment obligations, creating the risk of potential charge-offs or negatively impacting our revenue share arrangement with Synchrony Bank. The non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other factors, changes to underwriting standards, risk models not accurately predicting the creditworthiness of a user, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or government austerity programs, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. Account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. We currently purchase receivables related to our merchant lending offerings in the U.S. and extend credit for our consumer and merchants products outside the U.S. through our international subsidiaries. If we are unable to fund our credit business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, the growth of our credit business could be negatively impacted.We rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk.We rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including: networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; unaffiliated third-party lenders to originate our U.S. PayPal Credit, U.S. merchant credit, and branded credit card products; our branded debit card products; cryptocurrency custodial service providers; and external business partners and contractors who provide key functions (e.g., outsourced customer support and product development functions; facilities; information technology, data center facilities and cloud computing). These risks may include legal, regulatory, information security, reputational, operational, or any other risks inherent in engaging a third party. If we are unable to effectively manage our third-party relationships, these third parties are unable to meet their obligations to us, or we experience substantial disruptions in these relationships, our operations, results of operations, and financial results could be adversely impacted. Additionally, while we have policies and procedures for managing these relationships, they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, governance, and compliance, thereby potentially increasing our financial, legal, reputational, and operational risk.22Table of ContentsAny factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business.Cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenues and profits. Cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. In certain markets, cross-border trade represents our primary (and in some instances our only) presence.  Cross-border trade may be negatively impacted by various factors including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions in the context of cross-border trade and foreign exchange. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, such as trade policy or higher tariffs, could reduce our cross-border transactions and volume, negatively impact our revenues and profits, and harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and could negatively impact our business and severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services.Our buyer and seller protection programs protect merchants and consumers from fraudulent transactions, and protect consumers if they do not receive the item ordered or if the item received is significantly different from its description. We incur substantial losses from our buyer and seller protection programs as a result of claims from consumers. We seek to recover losses from our buyer and seller protection programs from the merchant, but may not fully recover them if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay or the transaction involves a fraudulent merchant. In addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise, or concert tickets, custom-made goods, and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, including through our buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payments. Allowances for transaction losses that we have established may be insufficient to cover incurred losses. We also incur substantial losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, fraud, erroneous transactions, and customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in their bank accounts to satisfy payments. In addition, consumers who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer, which in turn will seek recovery from us. If losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, we could lose the ability to accept payment cards for payment, which would negatively impact our business. Measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud require continuous improvement and may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud, particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new or expanded product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business could be negatively impacted. Increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changes to the scope of transactions covered by our buyer and seller protection programs, could negatively impact our business. See “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies— Protection Programs” to our consolidated financial statements.Use of our payments services for illegal purposes could harm our business.Our payment system is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions evasion, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illegal sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), bank fraud, child pornography, human trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, securities fraud, pyramid or ponzi schemes, or the facilitation of other illegal or improper activity. The use of our payment system for illegal or improper uses has subjected us, and may subject us in the future, to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, and government and regulatory requests, inquiries, or investigations that could result in liability and harm our reputation. Moreover, certain activity that may be legal in one jurisdiction may be illegal in another jurisdiction, and a merchant may be found responsible for intentionally or inadvertently importing or exporting illegal goods, resulting in liability for us. Owners of intellectual property rights or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including PayPal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing or allegedly infringing items. Any threatened or resulting claims could result in reputational harm, and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume, or increased costs could harm our business.Acquisitions, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. We expect to continue to consider and evaluate a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including, but not limited to, business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets; strategic investments; and commercial and strategic partnerships (collectively, “strategic 23Table of Contentstransactions”). At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more strategic transactions, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities. Strategic transactions may involve additional significant challenges, uncertainties, and risks, including, but not limited to, challenges of integrating new employees, systems, technologies, and business cultures; failure to develop the acquired business adequately; disruption of our ongoing operations and diversion of our management’s attention;  inadequate data security, cybersecurity and operational and information technology resilience; failure to identify, or our underestimation of, commitments, liabilities, deficiencies and other risks associated with acquired businesses or assets; and potential exposure to new or increased regulatory oversight and uncertain or evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements; potential reputational risks that could arise from transactions with, or investments in, companies involved in new or developing businesses or industries, which may be subject to uncertain or evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements; failure of the transaction to advance our business strategy and of its anticipated benefits to materialize; potential impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets; and the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or significant additional debt. Strategic transactions may also heighten many of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. These transactions are inherently risky, may not be successful, and may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Strategic investments in which we have a minority ownership stake inherently involve a lesser degree of influence over business operations. In addition, we may be dependent on controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control companies in which we invest may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, and otherwise damage our reputation and brand.Our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business.Our international operations generate approximately one-half of our net revenues. Our international operations, including any expansion in international markets, subject us to significant challenges, uncertainties, and risks, including, but not limited to: local regulatory, licensing, reporting, and legal obligations; costs and challenges associated with operating in markets in which we may have limited or no experience, including effectively localizing our products and services and adapting them to local preferences; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences and in light of varying laws, regulations, and customs; difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified company employees and maintaining our company culture; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; profit repatriation restrictions; potential tariffs, sanctions, fines, or other trade barriers or restrictions; import or export regulations; compliance with U.S. and foreign anti-corruption, anti-bribery, sanctions, anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations; the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions; and national or regional political, economic, or social instability.Our international operations also may heighten many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws, rules and regulations that may apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibit or require us to change the way we conduct our business; and damage our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks are inherent in our international operations, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could materially and adversely affect our business.Brexit: The United Kingdom’s departure from the EU could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Following the departure of the U.K. from the EU and the EEA on January 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as “Brexit”) and the expiration of a transition period on December 31, 2020, there continues to be uncertainty over the practical consequences of Brexit including the potential for Brexit to contribute to long-term instability in financial, stock and currency exchange markets, greater restrictions on the supply and availability of goods and services between the U.K. and EEA region, and a general deterioration in consumer sentiment and credit conditions leading to overall negative economic growth and increased risk of merchant default.The consequences of Brexit have brought legal uncertainty and increased complexity for financial services firms, which could continue as national laws and regulations in the U.K. differ from EU laws and regulations and additional authorization requirements come into effect. These developments have led to additional regulatory costs and challenges for us, including:24Table of Contents•PayPal (Europe) operates in the U.K. within the scope of its passport permissions (as they stood at the end of the transition period) pursuant to the Temporary Permissions Regime pending the grant of new UK authorizations by the U.K. financial regulators. If we are unable to obtain the required authorizations before the expiry of the longstop dates set by the U.K. regulators under the Temporary Permissions Regime, our European operations could lose their ability to offer services into the U.K. market on a cross-border basis; and•our European operations are required to comply with new legal and regulatory requirements in the U.K. that occasionally are in addition to, or inconsistent with, those of the EEA, in each case, leading to increased complexity and costs.Global and regional economic conditions could harm our business.Adverse global and regional economic conditions such as turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets, including tightening in the credit markets, extreme volatility or distress in the financial markets (including the fixed income, credit, currency, equity, and commodity markets), higher unemployment, high consumer debt levels, reduced consumer confidence or economic activity, government fiscal and tax policies, U.S and international trade relationships, agreements, treaties, tariffs and restrictive actions, the inability of a government to enact a budget in a fiscal year, government shutdowns, government austerity programs, and other negative financial news or macroeconomic developments could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size of transactions on our Payments Platform. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets when needed due to volatility or illiquidity in the markets and increased regulatory liquidity and capital requirements may strain our liquidity position. Such conditions may also expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates that could materially and adversely affect our financial results. See “