Risk Factors” and “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional discussion of these and other risks that our business faces.We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital markets, together with potential external funding through third party sources, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, and our credit products for the foreseeable future. Depending on market conditions, we may from time to time issue debt, including in private or public offerings, to fund our operating activities, finance acquisitions, make strategic investments, repurchase shares under our stock repurchase program, or reduce our cost of capital.CASH FLOWSThe following table summarizes our consolidated statements of cash flows: Year Ended December 31, 202020192018 (In millions)Net cash provided by (used in):Operating activities(1)$5,854 $4,071 $5,480 Investing activities(1)(16,218)(5,742)821 Financing activities(1)12,492 4,187 (1,240)Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash169 (6)(113)Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash$2,297 $2,510 $4,948 (1) Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to “Note 1—Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional information.Operating ActivitiesCash flows from operating activities includes net income adjusted for certain non-cash expenses, timing differences between expenses recognized for provision for transaction and credit losses and actual cash transaction losses incurred, and changes in other assets and liabilities. Significant non-cash expenses for the period include depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. The cash impact from actual transaction losses incurred during a period is reflected as a negative impact to changes in other assets and liabilities in cash from operating activities. The expenses recognized during the period for provision for credit losses are estimates of current expected credit losses on our merchant and consumer credit products. Actual charge-offs of receivables related to our merchants and consumer credit products have no impact on cash from operating activities.We generated cash from operating activities of $5.9 billion in 2020 due primarily to operating income of $3.3 billion, as well as adjustments for non-cash expenses including: provision for transaction and credit losses of $1.7 billion, stock-based compensation of $1.4 billion, and depreciation and amortization of $1.2 billion. Net income was also adjusted for net gains on our strategic investments of $1.9 billion in 2020, and changes in other assets and liabilities primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period of $1.1 billion and an increase in other assets of $498 million, partially offset by an increase in other liabilities of $1.0 billion.46Table of ContentsWe generated cash from operating activities of $4.1 billion in 2019 due primarily to operating income of $2.7 billion. During 2019, adjustments for non-cash expenses included provision for transaction and credit losses of $1.4 billion, stock-based compensation of $1.0 billion, and depreciation and amortization of $912 million, partially offset by adjustments related to deferred income taxes of $269 million and net unrealized gains on our strategic investments of $208 million. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in other assets and liabilities primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period of $1.1 billion, an increase in other assets of $566 million and accounts receivable of $120 million, partially offset by an increase in other liabilities of $722 million. We generated cash from operating activities of $5.5 billion in 2018 due primarily to operating income of $2.2 billion and the positive impact of $1.4 billion of changes in loans and interest receivable, held for sale, net following the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio. During 2018, adjustments for non-cash expenses included provision for transaction and credit losses of $1.3 billion,  stock-based compensation of $853 million, depreciation and amortization of $776 million, and cost basis adjustments to loans and interest receivable held for sale of $244 million. The cash generated from operating activities was also impacted by changes in other assets and liabilities, primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period of $1.0 billion, partially offset by an increase in other liabilities of $428 million.Cash paid for income taxes, net in 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $565 million, $665 million, and $328 million, respectively.Investing ActivitiesCash flows from investing activities includes purchases, maturities and sales of investments, cash paid for acquisitions and strategic investments, purchases and sales of property and equipment, changes in principal loans receivable, and funds receivable. The net cash used in investing activities of $16.2 billion in 2020 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $41.5 billion, acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $3.6 billion, changes in funds receivable from customers of $1.6 billion, and purchases of property and equipment of $866 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $30.9 billion, changes in principal loans receivable, net of $294 million, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $120 million.The net cash used in investing activities of $5.7 billion in 2019 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $27.9 billion,  changes in principal loans receivable, net of $1.6 billion, purchases of property and equipment of $704 million, and changes in funds receivable from customers of $351 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $24.9 billion.We generated cash from investing activities of $821 million in 2018 due primarily to maturities and sales of investments of $21.9 billion, changes in principal loans receivable, net of $3.1 billion, and changes in funds receivable from customers of $1.1 billion. These cash inflows were offset by purchases of investments of $22.4 billion, acquisitions of $2.1 billion (net of cash and restricted cash acquired), and purchases of property and equipment of $823 million.Financing ActivitiesCash flows from financing activities includes proceeds from issuance of common stock, purchases of treasury stock, tax withholdings related to net share settlements of equity awards, borrowings and repayments under financing arrangements, and funds payable and amounts due to customers. We generated cash from financing activities of $12.5 billion in 2020 due primarily to changes in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $10.6 billion and $7.0 billion of cash proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in the form of fixed rate notes, as well as proceeds from borrowings under our Credit Agreement. These cash inflows were partially offset by the repayment of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement of $3.0 billion, the repurchase of $1.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program, and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $521 million.We generated cash from financing activities of $4.2 billion in 2019 due primarily to $5.5 billion of cash proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in the form of fixed rate notes as well as borrowings under a previous credit agreement, and changes in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $3.0 billion. These cash inflows were partially offset by repayment of borrowings under a previous credit agreement of $2.5 billion, the repurchase of $1.4 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $504 million.47Table of ContentsThe net cash used in financing activities of $1.2 billion in 2018 was due primarily to the repurchase of $3.5 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, repayments of borrowing under financing arrangements of $1.1 billion, and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $419 million, partially offset by cash inflows from borrowings under financing arrangements of $2.1 billion and changes in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $1.6 billion.Effect of Exchange Rates on Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Restricted CashForeign currency exchange rates had a positive impact of $169 million, a negative impact of $6 million, and a negative impact of $113 million on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash during 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The positive impact in 2020 was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Australian dollar. The negative impact in 2018 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Australian dollar and to a lesser extent, the Euro.OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSAs of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.FUTURE LIQUIDITY AND OBLIGATIONSAs of December 31, 2020, approximately $3.0 billion of unused credit was available to PayPal Credit account holders compared to $3.1 billion of unused credit as of December 31, 2019. Substantially all of the PayPal Credit account holders with unused credit are in the U.K. While this amount represents the total unused credit available, we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, that all our PayPal Credit account holders will access their entire available credit at any given point in time. In addition, the individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following table summarizes our obligations as of December 31, 2020 that are expected to impact liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We believe we will be able to fund these obligations through our existing cash and investment portfolio and cash expected to be generated from operations. PurchaseObligationsOperatingLeasesTransition TaxLong-term DebtTotalPayments Due During the Year Ending December 31,(In millions)2021$409 $171 $114 $213 $907 2022239 140 114 1,213 1,706 2023129 126 212 1,185 1,652 2024134 116 284 1,428 1,962 202560 100 354 1,140 1,654 Thereafter52 277 — 5,854 6,183 $1,023 $930 $1,078 $11,033 $14,064 The significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the above table are as follows:•Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (computer equipment, software applications, engineering development services, and construction contracts), data center and cloud computing services, and other goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business.•Operating lease amounts include minimum rental payments under our non-cancelable operating leases (including leases not yet commenced) primarily for office and data center facilities. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly from actual results under our existing leases, unless a substantial change in our headcount needs requires us to expand our occupied space or exit an office facility early.48Table of Contents•Transition tax represents the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. •Long-term debt amounts represent the future principal and interest payments (based on contractual interest rates) on our fixed-rate debt. For more information, see “Note 12—Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. As we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, net, the table above does not include $1.4 billion of such non-current liabilities included in deferred and other tax liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020.SEASONALITYThe Company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. No individual quarter in 2020, 2019, or 2018 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES AND ESTIMATESThe application of U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial condition. We have established detailed policies and control procedures to provide reasonable assurance that the methods used to make estimates and assumptions are well controlled and are applied consistently from period to period. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to our financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to our financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit, Risk, and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. Our significant accounting policies, including recent accounting pronouncements, are described in “Note 1—Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where information is available to reasonably estimate the impact, and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity are included to allow users of this report to understand a general directional cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management’s predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.TRANSACTION AND CREDIT LOSSESTransaction and credit losses include the expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud, chargebacks, and credit losses associated with our loans receivable balances. Our transaction and credit losses fluctuate depending on many factors, including: total TPV, current and projected macroeconomic conditions, including unemployment rates, merchant insolvency events, changes to and usage of our customer protection programs, the impact of regulatory changes, and the credit quality of loans receivable arising from transactions funded with our credit products, which include our PayPal Credit consumer product and merchant loans and advances arising from our PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) and PayPal Business Loan (“PPBL”) products.We establish allowances for negative customer balances and estimated transaction losses arising from processing customer transactions, such as chargebacks for unauthorized credit card use and merchant-related chargebacks due to non-delivery or unsatisfactory delivery of purchased items, buyer protection program claims, account takeovers, and Automated Clearing House returns. Additions to the allowance, in the form of provisions, are reflected in transaction and credit losses on our consolidated statements of income. The allowances are based on known facts and circumstances, internal factors including experience with similar cases, historical trends involving collection and write-off patterns, and the mix of transaction and loss types, as well as current and projected macroeconomic factors, as appropriate.49Table of ContentsWe also establish an allowance for loans and interest receivable, which represents our estimate of current expected credit losses inherent in our portfolio of loans and interest receivable. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The allowance is primarily based on expectations of credit losses based on historical lifetime loss data as well as macroeconomic forecasts applied to the portfolio, which is segmented by factors such as geographic region, delinquency, and vintage. Loss curves are generated using historical loss data for each loan portfolio and are applied to segments of each portfolio, categorized by factors such as geographic region, first borrowing versus reuse, delinquency, credit rating and vintage, which vary by portfolio. We then apply macroeconomic factors such as forecasted trends in unemployment and benchmark credit card charge-off rates, which are sourced externally, using a single scenario that we believe is most appropriate to the economic conditions applicable to a particular period. We utilize externally sourced macroeconomic scenario data to supplement our historical information due to the limited period in which our credit product offerings have been in existence. Projected loss rates, inclusive of historical loss data and macroeconomic factors, are applied to the principal amount of our consumer and merchant receivables. We also include qualitative adjustments that incorporate incremental information not captured in the quantitative estimates of our current expected credit losses. Our consumer receivables are primarily revolving in nature and do not have a contractual term; however, the reasonable and supportable forecast period we have included in our projected loss rates based on externally sourced data is approximately seven years. Our merchant receivables vary in contractual term; however, the reasonable and supportable forecast period we have considered for projected loss rates is approximately 2.5 to 3.5 years, depending upon the product. The allowance for credit losses on interest and fees receivable is determined primarily by applying loss curves to each portfolio by geography, delinquency, and period of origination, among other factors.Determining appropriate current expected credit loss allowances for loans and interest receivable is an inherently uncertain process and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our allowance estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may impact the settlement or recovery of losses. The allowances are maintained at a level we deem appropriate to adequately provide for current expected credit losses at the balance sheet date after incorporating the impact of externally sourced macroeconomic forecasts. These forecasts project scenarios such as future unemployment and benchmark credit card charge-off rates. As of December 31, 2020, we utilized externally published projections of the U.S. and U.K. forecasted unemployment rates and credit card charge-off rates over the reasonable and supportable period, indicating a slight increase in the first half of 2021 followed by a gradual decline and ultimate stabilization of these rates, resulting in an overall principal and interest coverage ratio of approximately 23%. The projected gradual decline in unemployment and credit card charge-off rates is reflective of a prolonged recovery period where we expect to experience elevated charge-off rates. A significant change in the forecasted macroeconomic factors could result in a material change in our allowances. Our allowance as of December 31, 2020 has been adjusted to account for the proactive and reactive measures that we have taken that are intended to reduce financial difficulties experienced by our customers, and other limitations in our expected credit loss models that have arisen due to the extreme fluctuations in both the actual and projected macroeconomic conditions during the period. These qualitative adjustments were also made to incorporate varying degrees of merchant performance both in the current environment as well as expected future performance, and to account for payment holidays granted. Our allowance as of December 31, 2020 has not been adjusted to account for the potential impacts of the CARES Act, which are also intended to help mitigate the negative impact the current pandemic may have on the financial condition of our customers. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of these actions which may result in adjustments to our allowance for loans and interest receivable in future periods. An increase of 1% in the principal and interest coverage ratio would increase our allowances by approximately $36 million based on the loans and interest receivable balance outstanding as of December 31, 2020.ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rates that apply to our foreign earnings. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, our income tax rate depends on the extent that our foreign earnings are taxed by the U.S. through provisions such as the GILTI tax and base erosion anti-abuse tax or as a result of our indefinite reinvestment assertion. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment about, and intentions concerning, our future operations. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings, and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates that are based on a number of factors, including our historical experience and short-range and long-range business forecasts. To the extent deferred tax assets are not expected to be realized, we record a valuation allowance.50Table of ContentsWe recognize and measure uncertain tax positions in accordance with U.S. GAAP, pursuant to which we only recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. U.S. GAAP further requires that a change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions be recognized in earnings in the quarter in which such change occurs. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.We file annual income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited by the relevant tax authorities and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes are adequate such that we reflect the benefits more likely than not to be sustained in an examination. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest and penalties, where appropriate in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash.Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2020, a one-percentage point increase in our effective tax rate would have resulted in an increase in our income tax expense of approximately $51 million.LOSS CONTINGENCIESWe are currently involved in various claims, regulatory and legal proceedings, and investigations of potential operating violations by regulatory oversight authorities. We regularly review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim, legal proceeding, or potential regulatory violation is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our judgments are subjective and are based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses, and consultation with in-house and outside legal counsel. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims, litigation, or other violations and may revise our estimates. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory process in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our judgments may differ materially from the actual outcomes.REVENUE RECOGNITIONApplication of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Specifically, the determination of whether we are a principal to a transaction (gross revenue) or an agent (net revenue) can require considerable judgment. Further, we provide incentive payments to consumers and merchants, which require judgment to determine whether the payments should be recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the amount of revenue recognized. VALUATION OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLESThe valuation of assets acquired in a business combination and asset impairment reviews require the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in an acquired business to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated or amortized and goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and, if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Our estimates are based upon assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management’s assumptions, which do not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.51Table of ContentsWe evaluate goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or sooner if indicators of impairment exist. Under U.S. GAAP, the evaluation of indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment allows for a qualitative assessment to be performed, which is similar to U.S. GAAP for evaluating goodwill for impairment. In performing these qualitative assessments, we consider relevant events and conditions, including but not limited to: macroeconomic trends, industry and market conditions, overall financial performance, cost factors, company-specific events, legal and regulatory factors, and our market capitalization. If the qualitative assessments indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than their carrying amounts, we must perform a quantitative impairment test.Under the quantitative impairment test, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds the fair value of the respective reporting unit goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset, an impairment loss is recorded in the statement of income. Measurement of the fair value of a reporting unit could be based on one or more of the following fair value measures: amounts at which the unit as a whole could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, present value techniques of estimated future cash flows, valuation techniques based on multiples of earnings or revenue, or a similar performance measure.52Table of Contents