BUSINESSOverviewPayPal Holdings, Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company” or “PayPal”) is a leading technology platform company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. We believe in providing simple, affordable, secure and reliable financial services and digital payments to help our customers around the world to achieve their financial goals. We strive to increase our relevance for consumers, merchants, friends and family to access and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform and through any device (e.g., mobile, tablets, personal computers or wearables). We provide safer and simpler ways for businesses of all sizes to accept payments from merchant websites, mobile devices and applications, and at offline retail locations through a wide range of payment solutions. We also facilitate person to person payments through PayPal, Venmo and Xoom (acquired in November 2015).  Our combined payment solution capabilities, including our PayPal, PayPal Credit, Braintree, Venmo, and Xoom products, comprise our proprietary Payments Platform. The terms "we," "our," "us," "the Company," and "PayPal" mean PayPal Holdings, Inc. and, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context requires, its subsidiaries.We enable global commerce by providing payment solutions for our approximately 179 million active customer accounts in over 200 markets as of December 31, 2015, while providing customers a choice of how they would like to pay or get paid. A market is a geographic area or political jurisdiction, such as a country, territory, or protectorate, in which we offer our services. A country, territory or protectorate is identified by a distinct set of laws and regulations. An active customer account is a registered account that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through our Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and Paydiant products, in the past 12 months. Our gateway products include our Payflow Payments and certain Braintree products. A payment gateway links a merchant’s website to that merchant’s processing network and merchant account.We offer our customers the flexibility to use their account to both purchase and be paid for goods, as well as transfer and withdraw funds. A consumer can typically fund a purchase using a bank account, a PayPal account balance, a PayPal Credit account, a credit or debit card or other stored value products such as coupons and gift cards. Our PayPal, Venmo, and Xoom products also make it safer and simpler for friends and family to transfer funds to each other, including cross border transfers using several of these funding sources. We offer merchants an end-to-end payments solution that provides authorization and settlement capabilities, as well as instant access to funds. We help merchants connect with their customers and manage risk. PayPal's aim is to create deeper, more relevant relationships with each of its customers. We measure the relevance of our products in the lives of our customers, and therefore the success of our business, through both payment volume and payment transactions. Payment volume is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and Paydiant products (“Total Payment Volume” or “TPV”). During 2015, our TPV was approximately $282 billion, representing growth of 20% over 2014. “Payment transactions” is the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments Platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and Paydiant products. During 2015, we processed approximately 4.9 billion payment transactions, representing growth of 24% over 2014. This translated to 27.5 payment transactions per active customer account in 2015. This is an increase from 24.5 payment transactions per active customer account in 2014.  "Payment transactions per active customer account" reflects the total number of payment transactions within the previous 12 month period, divided by active customer accounts at the end of the period.1Table of ContentsOur Payments Platform is built to make the existing global financial infrastructure work for people in the digital and mobile age. PayPal allows people to make seamless transactions between different markets and networks. Our Payments Platform connects with financial institutions around the world and allows consumers to make purchases using a broad range of payment methods, regardless of where a merchant is located. Consumers who use our Payments Platform can engage in cross-border shopping by sending payments in more than 200 markets across the globe and in more than 100 currencies. This enables merchants to extend their reach across borders to an expanded customer base.We generate revenues by charging fees for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services, primarily based on the volume of activity, or TPV, processed through our Payments Platform. We also earn revenue by providing value added services to consumers and merchants, such as our PayPal Credit and Paydiant products. During 2015, we generated revenue of $9.2 billion, representing growth of 15% over 2014 (19% on an foreign currency neutral basis). Our revenue is influenced by, among other things, consumer spending patterns, merchant adoption of payment methods other than traditional credit or debit cards and cash, the expansion of multi-channel retail, the growth of mobile devices and merchant applications on those devices, the growth of consumers with access to the Internet globally, the pace of transition from paper-based forms of payment to digital forms of payment, our share of the digital payments market, and our ability to innovate new methods of payment that merchants and consumers find to be valuable. Our strategy is to drive growth by:•Growing our core businesses globally through expanding our capabilities and base of active customer accounts, increasing our customers’ use of our products and services by better addressing our customers’ everyday needs in managing and moving money and expanding the adoption of our solutions by new merchants and consumers;•Expanding our value proposition for customers by providing risk management, insights from our two-sided Payments Platform, and scale;•Extending our existing business by seeking new areas of growth in markets around the world and focusing on innovation both in the digital and the physical world; and •Enhancing our strong foundation focused on trust, simplicity, and being technology agnostic.2Table of ContentsIn line with our strategy to drive growth, we focus on the generation of free cash flow. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as cash flow from operations less purchases of property and equipment.  We consider free cash flow to be a key performance measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of operating cash flow generated by the business after the purchases of property and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, and return cash to shareholders. In 2015, we generated $1.8 billion in free cash flow; this represents an increase of $96 million from 2014.  Please refer to Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Information" for information on how we compute free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.PayPal is a popular form of payment for mobile commerce, and our business has grown with the increased adoption of mobile devices. We believe that our Braintree products strengthen our position in mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers who offer their services primarily through mobile applications. These products have expanded our footprint with earlier stage merchants.  Our Venmo app is a leading mobile application to move money between friends and family using their mobile device. With Venmo, we have a diversified demographic of consumers. In April 2015, we completed our acquisition of Paydiant to further expand our capabilities in mobile payments. Using Paydiant’s platform, our merchant partners can create their own branded wallets to accelerate mobile-in-store payments and drive consumer engagement through mobile payments, loyalty, offers and the prioritization of preferred payment types, such as store branded credit cards and gift cards. In November 2015, we completed our acquisition of Xoom.  Xoom enables consumers to send money, pay bills and send mobile phone reloads to family and friends around the world using mobile devices. We believe that mobile devices are the bridge between online, in-app, and in-store offerings, creating a pathway to a larger addressable market.  In addition, mobile becomes a conduit that facilitates the movement and management of money, including remittances, consumer lending, and person-to-person ("P2P") transactions.  We operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry.  That focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy and consumer protection.  Some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. Non-compliance with laws and regulations, increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, and the enactment of new laws and regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, we monitor these areas closely to ensure compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us.3Table of ContentsConnecting Merchants and ConsumersWe operate a proprietary global technology platform that links merchants and consumers around the globe to facilitate the processing of payment transactions, allowing us to connect millions of merchants and consumers worldwide. Our Payments Platform facilitates an efficient and secure means for merchants to receive payments, and a convenient, secure way for consumers to make payments. We process transactions through our Payments Platform in more than 200 markets, allowing customers to pay and get paid in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds to their bank accounts in 57 currencies and hold balances in their PayPal accounts in 26 currencies.A transaction on our Payments Platform can involve up to three participants in addition to us: a merchant, a consumer and the consumer’s funding source provider. The following diagram illustrates a typical payment transaction between a consumer and a merchant on our Payments Platform:ConsumersWe enable consumers to more safely exchange funds with merchants using their PayPal digital wallet. Our digital wallet provides consumers with the ability to draw funds from a variety of their financial resources, which may include both “internal” sources of funds (i.e., a PayPal account balance or PayPal Credit account) and sources of funds that are “external” to PayPal (e.g., bank transfers, credit and debit cards or gift cards), within one application. We generally do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts; however, we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged to exchange currencies and on interest and fees from consumer loans originated through our PayPal Credit products.We value our relationship with our consumers and invest in this relationship. We strive to provide efficient customer service, account support, and protection from loss, and to create relevant products. As of December 31, 2015, over 8,000 people in our customer service organization worked to provide our consumers with answers and solutions when and where they need them, in over 20 languages. We have operations centers around the world, including in the U.S., Europe, Asia and South America, that strive to provide high-quality service and support for our customers. We have also developed a number of trust and security programs, including PayPal’s Buyer Protection Program, that provide additional protection to consumers for qualifying purchases by reimbursing the consumer for the full amount of the purchase if a purchased item does not arrive or is significantly different than the seller’s description (see "Revenue Sources—Protecting Merchants and Consumers" below).Traditional financial institutions often charge fees for basic services provided to their customers, and existing alternatives to these financial institutions, including services to cash a check or pay a bill, can be inconvenient and expensive. We focus on providing 4Table of Contentsaffordable consumer products that democratize the access to and movement of money. We believe that managing and moving a consumer’s money should be a right, not a privilege. Through our technology and products, we believe we can change the status quo and make digital payments more efficient and accessible. We expect P2P transfers to contribute to this strategy. We believe that our P2P products have network effects and help to establish relationships with potential PayPal users by allowing them to join the Payments Platform at the time of making or receiving payments, which encourages our natural, customer-driven growth. PayPal offers P2P payment solutions through its website, its PayPal mobile application, through Venmo, a mobile application that enables payment transactions between non-merchant account holders, and through Xoom, a service enabling payments from customers in the United States to family and friends in a secure, fast and cost-effective way, using their mobile phones or computers. Xoom offers money transfer services from the United States to 41 countries, cross-border bill payment services from the United States to 7 countries and prepaid mobile phone reload services in 25 countries.We also provide the ability for consumers to receive a line of credit through our PayPal Credit consumer products.  Consumers access this credit through their PayPal account or directly with merchants.  As of December 31, 2015, we have purchased or  extended approximately $7.4 billion in credit to consumers, of which $4.0 billion is currently outstanding.  We currently fund the purchase of PayPal Credit consumer receivables with international and domestic cash resources.  Our chartered financial institution in Luxembourg, or an independent chartered financial institution in the U.S. with whom we partner, extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale (“POS”) and advances funds to the merchant. In the U.S., we subsequently purchase the consumer receivables related to the consumer loans from the independent chartered financial institution with whom we partnered and as a result of that purchase, bear the risk of loss on the related consumer receivables, less a participation interest held by the independent chartered financial institution. As we expand the availability of our credit products, we expect to utilize capital from internal and external sources.  In the second quarter of 2015, we concluded an arrangement with certain investors whereby we sold a participation interest in certain consumer receivables originated by PayPal Credit. We will continue to evaluate partnerships and third party sources of funding of our credit portfolio, including, but not limited to, commercial banks, securitization markets, private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds and under certain specific circumstances, the use of customer funds. For additional information concerning our consumer  credit products, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Future Liquidity and Obligations” and “Note 9—Loans and Interest Receivable Net” to our combined and consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein.MerchantsAs commerce continues to transition from the physical world to the digital world and from domestic commerce to global commerce, our proprietary Payments Platform provides opportunities for merchants to grow their businesses. We partner with merchants to help them grow and expand their businesses by improving sales conversion, providing global reach, offering alternative payment methods (such as easy integration credit products and mobile capabilities), reducing losses through proprietary protection programs, and leveraging data analytics. We focus on growing merchant acceptance through business development activities and direct relationships with merchants. We enable merchants to more safely and simply receive payments from our active customer accounts, providing global reach while reducing some of the complexity and friction involved in enabling overseas and cross-border trade. For the year ended December 31, 2015, approximately 45% of our TPV involved a merchant outside of the U.S., and approximately 22% was cross-border (i.e., transactions where the merchant or consumer were in different countries).A merchant can typically open a standard PayPal account and begin accepting payments through PayPal within a few minutes. Most online or mobile merchants can onboard quickly and are not required to invest in new or specialized hardware. Our Payments Platform supports growth with a variety of value added services designed to help businesses of all sizes manage their cash flow, invoice clients, pay bills, and reduce the need for merchants to receive and store sensitive customer financial information. For our standard service, we do not charge merchants setup or recurring fees. A merchant can also integrate with Braintree to begin accepting payments with credit or debit cards, PayPal, Venmo, digital currencies such as Bitcoin, or other payment solutions with a single integration.Our payment and PayPal Credit products are designed to help merchants increase the conversion rate of consumer purchases on their websites and mobile applications. For example, our One Touch product allows consumers to authenticate their account during their first One Touch purchase. This enables them to skip the login process for future payments and turn shopping into a one touch operation with near-instant authentication.  With a faster authentication process, we believe that fewer customers will abandon a potential transaction before completing it. We also provide the ability for merchants to offer (and consumers to fund) payments via a deferred payment option using our PayPal Credit consumer products. In addition, our PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) product provides merchants with a working capital advance, which is paid back to PayPal through a percentage of a merchant’s sales that PayPal processes. In 2015, we achieved the milestone of having originated more than $1 billion in working capital advances. As of December 31, 2015, we had $421 million PayPal Working Capital advances and fees receivable outstanding.  Our PPWC product allows us to deepen our engagement with our small business customers by offering them additional services. For additional information concerning our merchant credit products, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 5Table of ContentsCondition and Results of Operations -Future Liquidity and Obligations” and “Note 9—Loans and Interest Receivable, Net” to our combined and consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We value our relationship with merchants and invest in this relationship by providing customer service, account support, developer advocacy and support, and proprietary risk and security solutions. In addition to our consumer protection programs, we have also developed PayPal’s Seller Protection Program. This program provides protection to merchants against claims that a transaction was not authorized by the buyer or claims that an item was not received by covering the seller for the full amount of the payment on eligible sales. By offering dual buyer and seller protection programs, both the consumer and merchant can transact with confidence.Our Payments Platform and open application programming interfaces (“APIs”) are designed to allow developers to innovate with ease and to offer cutting edge applications to a large ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the security of our customers’ financial information. We provide developers with easy to use, flexible and powerful tools that are designed to leverage our global reach and payment capabilities. Our software developer kits (“SDKs”) are specifically focused on the mobile application market and are designed to remove friction by not requiring a redirect to the PayPal website or an additional log-in. We are using a true “mobile first” approach to make payments simple and intuitive.CompetitionThe global payments industry is highly competitive. We compete against businesses in varied industries, many of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position in other industries, or offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. We compete against all forms of payments, including credit and debit cards; automated clearing house and bank transfers; other online payment services; mobile payments; and offline payment methods, including cash and check.  We compete primarily on the basis of the following:•ability to attract, retain and engage both merchants and consumers;•ability to show that merchants will achieve incremental sales by offering our PayPal services;•security of transactions and the ability for consumers to use our PayPal products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or the party they are paying;•simplicity of our fee structure;•ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the retail point of sale;•trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs;•customer service;•brand recognition;•website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use and accessibility;•system reliability and data security;•ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and•quality of developer tools such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits.For additional information concerning competition and our competitors, see 