BUSINESS.Company Overview Qorvo® is a product and technology leader at the forefront of the growing global demand for always-on broadband connectivity.  We combine a broad portfolio of innovative radio frequency ("RF") solutions, highly differentiated semiconductor technologies, systems-level expertise and global manufacturing scale to supply a diverse group of customers in expanding markets, including smartphones and other mobile devices, defense and aerospace, Wi-Fi customer premises equipment ("CPE"), cellular base stations, and multiple Internet of Things ("IoT") applications including the smart home and connected car.  Within these markets, our products enable a broad range of leading-edge applications – from very-high-power wired and wireless infrastructure solutions to ultra-low-power smart home solutions.  Our products and technologies help people around the world connect with each other, access broadband data and critical networks, transact mobile commerce and interact through social media.Our design and manufacturing expertise span many semiconductor process technologies, which we source both internally and through external suppliers.  Our primary wafer fabrication facilities are in North Carolina, Oregon and Texas, and our primary assembly and test facilities are in China, Costa Rica, Germany and Texas.  We also operate design, sales and other manufacturing facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America. Qorvo was incorporated in Delaware in 2013.  Our principal executive office is located at 7628 Thorndike Road, Greensboro, North Carolina 27409 and our telephone number is (336) 664-1233. Operating SegmentsWe design, develop, manufacture and market our products to U.S. and international original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and original design manufacturers ("ODMs") in two operating segments: Mobile Products ("MP") and Infrastructure and Defense Products ("IDP").MP is a global supplier of cellular RF and Wi-Fi solutions for a variety of mobile devices, including smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and cellular-based applications for the IoT. IDP is a global supplier of RF and system-on-a-chip ("SoC") solutions for cellular base stations and other wireless communications infrastructure, defense, smart home, automotive and other IoT applications. For financial information about the results of our reportable operating segments for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this report.4Table of ContentsMarkets and Products Our business is diversified primarily across the following end markets: mobile devices; cellular base stations; defense and aerospace; Wi-Fi customer premises equipment; smart home; and automotive connectivity.  These markets compose the primary building blocks of the IoT.  Mobile DevicesOur largest market, mobile devices, includes smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and other devices, operating primarily in 4G Long-Term Evolution ("LTE") networks.  The mobile device market is characterized by the increasing demand for data, which is fueling the adoption of new wireless standards, frequency bands and architectures.  This is increasing device complexity and placing a premium on RF solutions that reduce board space, improve signal quality, extend battery life and enhance the end-user experience. The global deployment of 5G is a significant trend in our industry.  5G involves advanced RF modulation across a wide range of frequency bands, including sub-6 GHz frequencies and millimeter wave frequencies.  This introduces new challenges related to wider bandwidth, signal integrity and overall system complexity.  As frequency bands are added, new carrier aggregation band combinations are utilized, and Multiple-Input/Multiple-Output ("MIMO") architectures are implemented, smartphone makers are requiring transmit and receive functionality in more compact form factors.  To address these requirements, Qorvo leverages its product and technology leadership, systems-level expertise and advanced integration capabilities to deliver high-performance discrete and highly integrated RF solutions.  Our mobile devices portfolio includes filters, duplexers, switches, multimode/multi-band power amplifiers ("PAs") and transmit modules, RF power management integrated circuits, antenna switch modules, antenna tuners, antennaplexers, highly integrated modules incorporating PAs and duplexers ("PADs") and highly integrated modules incorporating switches, PAs and duplexers ("S-PADs").  Our modules utilize sophisticated packaging capabilities to integrate high-performance components, including bulk acoustic wave ("BAW") filters, temperature-compensated surface acoustic wave ("TC-SAW") filters, silicon on insulator ("SOI") switches and low noise amplifiers ("LNAs"), and advanced gallium arsenide ("GaAs") PAs.Our RF Fusion™ and RF Flex™ product families combine transmit and receive RF functionality in highly integrated multi-band, multi-mode modules. Complementing RF Fusion and RF Flex, we offer envelope tracking power management solutions and antenna control solutions.  These products improve RF performance while reducing the board space necessary to maximize data throughput. Cellular Base StationsIDP supports top-tier global cellular base station OEMs with a broad portfolio of RF solutions across frequency bands.  User demand for high-speed data and global coverage is driving improved efficiency and expansion of the base station network, including the migration to 5G networks.  Cellular operators have invested to acquire access to frequency spectrum and have conducted field trials to prove the viability of fixed and mobile 5G use cases.  Initial 5G commercial networks are being deployed in high data-traffic metropolitan areas across the U.S., China and Korea, with other countries following suit.  5G networks require more power-efficient designs and solutions that enable increased capacity and coverage.  To meet these demands, equipment manufacturers are moving to new RF frequency bands (2.5 GHz to 6 GHz, referred to as sub-6 GHz, and millimeter wave) that have wider channel bandwidths and are architecting radios that utilize massive MIMO active antenna array technology, increasing the number of RF transmit/receive channels by factors of 16 times, to as high as 256 times.Our integrated solutions for massive MIMO systems include switch-LNA modules, variable gain amplifiers and integrated PA Doherty modules.  Our GaAs and SOI solutions offer differentiated low noise performance, while our gallium nitride ("GaN") PAs target higher frequency bands and combine high linearity and efficiency with low power consumption.5Table of ContentsDefense and AerospaceWe are a leading supplier of RF products and compound semiconductor foundry services to global defense and aerospace markets.  We directly engage with the U.S. government, primarily through contracts with the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, the Air Force Research Laboratory and the Office of Naval Research, to develop next-generation technologies for future high-power phased array radar, electronic warfare and communications systems.  Our GaN manufacturing capabilities have achieved the U.S. Department of Defense's Manufacturing Readiness Level 10, the highest level in the industry.  Our products for defense radar applications bring new capabilities to detect and neutralize threats against infantry, aircrew and shipboard forces around the globe.  Our PAs provide the power at the heart of phased array radar.  Our premium filtering solutions enable interference-free connections and maximize the utilization of frequency spectrum to meet the capacity and coverage requirements of existing and emerging RF communication systems.  Our Spatium® line of solid-state, high-power products provide highly reliable, efficient broadband solutions to address the risk of complex electronic warfare threats across a broad frequency spectrum.Wi-Fi Customer Premises EquipmentIn Wi-Fi applications, consumer and enterprise customers are demanding faster data rates to support more and new applications in the connected home and office.  Wi-Fi CPE includes routers, gateways, set-top boxes and enterprise infrastructure.  Wi-Fi is in the process of migrating from the Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) communication standard to Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax).  Similar to cellular base stations, Wi-Fi is also moving to MIMO to maximize range and capacity.  Wi-Fi customers want better home and office coverage and the faster and more reliable connections required for video streaming, augmented/virtual reality and high-density user environments, all in the smallest form factors.  We address these performance requirements by offering PAs, switches, LNAs and integrated BAW filters. Smart HomeThe smart home contains sensor devices that detect light, motion, temperature, whether doors are open, closed, locked or unlocked, and actuators that implement a command such as lowering the temperature or opening a garage door.  These devices can be controlled via the internet through your computer, smartphone or through a direct peer-to-peer connection such as a voice-enabled remote control.  These solutions utilize industry open standard technologies, including Bluetooth® Low Energy, Zigbee, and Thread to link to a central gateway, enabled by Wi-Fi products that connect to the internet.  Smart home customers typically require standards agnostic products with long battery life that offer superior coexistence of multiple radios in a small unobtrusive form factor.  Our multi-standard product portfolio, consisting of silicon complementary metal oxide semiconductor ("CMOS") SoC hardware, firmware and application software, enable equipment manufacturers to quickly develop smart home products.  To augment the SoC, we offer various configurations of filtering and amplification to extend system range.  We offer solutions for various applications, including remote controls, home gateways, smart home products, wireless lighting and electronic shelf labels.  Our smart home product development efforts are focused on power versus range, allowing whole home coverage on a single coin-cell battery.  We are also engaged with overall ecosystem providers to develop products that enable new use cases and markets in the smart home, such as artificial intelligence-based systems that enable the elderly to continue to live safely in their homes.Automotive ConnectivityThe next-generation of cellular networks is enabling new use cases in automotive wireless connectivity, including streaming 4K video in-car infotainment, vehicle-to-vehicle communications, and autonomous driving.  These new use cases require complex RF solutions incorporating multiple radios (GPS, satellite radio, LTE, Wi-Fi and millimeter wave).  We provide a variety of automotive RF connectivity products, including BAW filters, LNAs, switches, PAs and LTE front end solutions, which meet automotive AEC-Q100 quality and reliability standards.  We engage automotive OEMs, tier-1 suppliers and chipset vendors on reference designs to address future requirements.  Other Markets We also participate in several smaller markets, including broadband cable, point-to-point radio and Very Small Aperture Terminal applications.  Our products for these markets range from PAs to oscillators.  In addition, we serve the traditional optical long-haul telecom networks that are the backbone of the nation's fiber optic network.  Our products include optical modulator drivers and trans-impedance amplifiers, which support data rates from 10 gigabits per second to 600 gigabits per second.6Table of ContentsResearch and DevelopmentWe invest in research and development ("R&D") to develop the advanced technologies and products necessary to serve our markets.  Our R&D activities focus primarily on large, competitive design win opportunities for major programs at key customers, which typically requires us to improve the year-over-year functional density, performance, size and cost of our products.  We also devote significant R&D resources for targeted development of new products for general release to various markets.  Our R&D efforts require us to focus on both continuous improvement in our processes for design and manufacture as well as innovation in fundamental areas like materials, software and firmware, semiconductor process technologies, simulation and modeling, systems architecture, circuit design, device packaging, module integration and test. We have developed several generations of GaAs, GaN, BAW and surface acoustic wave ("SAW") process technologies that we manufacture internally.  We invest in these technologies to improve device performance, reduce die size and reduce manufacturing costs.  We also help develop and qualify technologies in cooperation with key suppliers, including SOI for switches and tuners, silicon germanium (SiGe) for amplifiers, and CMOS for power management devices and SoC solutions.  We combine these technologies with our proprietary design methods, intellectual property and other expertise to improve performance, increase integration and reduce the size and cost of our products.We develop and qualify advanced packaging technologies to allow us to eliminate wire bonds, reduce component size, improve performance and reduce package costs.  We are also investing in large scale module assembly and test capabilities to bring these technologies to market in very high volumes.Raw Materials We purchase numerous raw materials, passive components and substrates for our products and manufacturing processes.  For our GaAs and GaN manufacturing operations, we use several raw materials, including GaAs and GaN on silicon carbide wafers.  For our acoustic filter manufacturing operations, we use several raw materials, including wafers made from silicon, lithium niobate or lithium tantalate. For our silicon-based products, we use third-party foundries.  High demand for silicon wafers and wafer starting materials has led to supply constraints from time-to-time, and we have attempted to address this by qualifying multiple silicon foundries and by obtaining supply commitments, in some cases in exchange for purchase or capital commitments by us.Our manufacturing strategy includes a balance of internal and external sites (primarily for assembly and test operations), which helps reduce costs, provides flexibility of supply, and minimizes the risk of supply disruption.  We routinely qualify multiple sources of supply and manufacturing sites to reduce the risk of supply interruptions or price increases and closely monitor suppliers’ key performance indicators.  Our suppliers' and our manufacturing sites are geographically diversified (with our largest volume sources distributed throughout Southern and Eastern Asia).  We believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials, passive components and substrates for our products and manufacturing needs.Manufacturing We are a manufacturer of BAW, GaN, GaAs, SAW, TC-SAW and silicon products.  The majority of our products are multi-chip modules utilizing multiple semiconductor and acoustic material processing technologies.  These products have varying degrees of complexity and contain semiconductors and other components that are manufactured in-house or outsourced.  We operate wafer fabrication facilities for the production of BAW, GaN, GaAs, SAW and TC-SAW wafers in Apopka, Florida; Greensboro, North Carolina; Hillsboro, Oregon; and Richardson, Texas.  We also use multiple silicon-based process technologies, including SOI, SiGe and CMOS.  We outsource all silicon manufacturing to leading silicon foundries located throughout the world.  We have a global supply chain and ship millions of units per day.We have our own flip chip, wire bond and wafer-level packaging ("WLP") technologies.  Additionally, we use external suppliers for these and other packaging technologies. 7Table of ContentsOnce semiconductor wafers are manufactured, they are singulated, or separated, into individual units called die.  Prior to singulation of wafers into die, we regularly conduct wafer level tests which could include electrical validation, RF testing through the designed frequency bands, as well as visual inspection.  For module products, the next step is assembly.  During assembly, the die and other components are placed on high-density interconnect substrates to provide connectivity between the die and the components.  This populated substrate is formed into a microelectronic package.  Next, the products are tested for RF performance and prepared for shipment through a tape and reel process.  We primarily use internal assembly facilities in China, Costa Rica, Germany, and the U.S., and we also utilize external suppliers.  We also manufacture large volumes of WLP die and discrete filters that our customers directly assemble into their products.Manufacturing yields can vary significantly between products, based on a number of factors, including product complexity and the maturity of our manufacturing processes.  To maximize wafer yields and quality, we test products multiple times, maintain continuous reliability monitoring and conduct numerous quality control inspections throughout the production flow. Our internal manufacturing facilities require a high level of fixed costs, consisting primarily of occupancy costs, maintenance, repair, equipment depreciation, and fixed labor costs related to manufacturing and process engineering.Integrated circuits and filter products are highly complex and sensitive to contaminants, and semiconductor fabrication requires highly controlled, clean environments.  Wafers can be rejected or die on a wafer can be found to be nonfunctional as a result of minute impurities, variances in the fabrication process or defects in the masks used to transfer circuits onto the wafers.Our manufacturing facilities worldwide are certified to the ISO 9001 quality standard, and select locations are certified to additional automotive (IATF 16949), aerospace (AS 9100) and environmental (ISO 14001) standards.  These stringent standards are audited and certified by third-party auditors in addition to our continuous internal self-audits.  The ISO 9001 standard is based on a number of quality management principles including a strong customer focus, the motivation of top management, the process approach and continual improvement.  IATF 16949 is the highest international quality standard for the global automotive industry and incorporates specific additional requirements for the automotive industry.  AS 9100 is the standardized quality management system for the aerospace industry.  ISO 14001 is an internationally agreed upon standard for an environmental management system.  We require that all of our key vendors and suppliers be compliant with select standards, as applicable.CustomersWe design, develop, manufacture and market products for leading U.S. and international OEMs and ODMs.  We also collaborate with leading baseband reference design partners. We provide our products to our largest end customer, Apple Inc. ("Apple"), through sales to multiple contract manufacturers, which in the aggregate accounted for 32%, 36%, and 34% of total revenue in fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. ("Huawei") accounted for 13%, 8% and 11% of our total revenue in fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  These customers purchase RF and Wi-Fi solutions for cellular base stations and a variety of mobile devices, including smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and cellular-based applications for the IoT. Some of our sales to overseas customers are subject to export licenses or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. Department of Commerce (see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A set forth in this report).8Table of ContentsSales and MarketingWe sell our products worldwide directly to customers as well as through a network of U.S. and foreign sales representative firms and distributors.  We select our domestic and foreign sales representatives based on technical skills and sales experience, the presence of complementary product lines and the customer base served.  We provide ongoing training to our internal and external sales representatives and distributors to keep them educated about our products.  We maintain an internal sales and marketing organization that is responsible for key account management, application engineering support for customers, sales and advertising literature, and technical presentations for industry conferences.  Our sales and customer support centers are located near our customers throughout the world.Our website contains extensive product information, and includes an online store where customers can learn about our newest products, download product catalogs, order product samples and request evaluation boards.  Our global team of application engineers interacts with customers during all stages of design and production, maintains regular contact with customer engineers, provides product application notes and engineering data, and assists in the resolution of technical problems.  We maintain close relationships with our customers and platform providers and provide them strong technical support to help anticipate future product needs and enhance their customer experience. Backlog and SeasonalityOur sales are the result of standard purchase orders or specific agreements with customers.  We maintain Qorvo-owned finished goods inventory at certain customers’ "hub" locations and do not recognize revenue until our customers draw down the inventory at these hubs.  Our customers’ projections of consumption of hub inventory and quantities on purchase orders, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised within agreed-upon lead times to reflect changes in the customers’ needs.  Because industry practice allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels.Historically, we have experienced seasonal fluctuations in the sale of mobile products, with revenue strongest in our second and third fiscal quarters and weakest in our fourth fiscal quarter.CompetitionWe operate in a competitive industry characterized by rapid advances in technology and new product introductions.  Our customers’ product life cycles are often short, and our competitiveness depends on our ability to improve our products and processes faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer requirements and successfully develop and launch new products while reducing our costs.  Our competitiveness is also affected by the quality of our customer service and technical support and our ability to design customized products that address each customer’s particular requirements within their cost limitations.  The selection process for our products to be included in our customers’ products is highly competitive, and our customers provide no guarantees that our products will be included in the next-generation of products introduced.MP competes primarily with the following companies:  Broadcom Limited; Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd.;  Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.; and Skyworks Solutions, Inc.  IDP competes primarily with the following companies: Analog Devices, Inc.; Cree, Inc.; M/A-COM Technology Solutions, Inc.; Skyworks Solutions, Inc.; and Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations.Many of our current and potential competitors have entrenched market positions and customer relationships, established patents and other intellectual property and substantial technological capabilities.  In some cases, our competitors are also our customers or suppliers.  Additionally, many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do, which may allow them to implement new technologies and develop new products more quickly than we can.Intellectual PropertyWe believe our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, is important to our business, and we actively seek opportunities to leverage our intellectual property portfolio to promote our business interests.  We also actively seek to monitor and protect our global intellectual property rights and to deter 9Table of Contentsunauthorized use of our intellectual property and other assets.  Such efforts can be difficult because of the absence of consistent international standards and laws.  Moreover, we respect the intellectual property rights of others and have implemented policies and procedures to mitigate the risk of infringing or misappropriating third party intellectual property.Patent applications are filed within the U.S. and in other countries where we have a market presence.  On occasion, some applications do not mature into patents for various reasons, including rejections based on prior art.  In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  We have approximately 1,400 patents that expire from 2019 to 2039.  We also continue to acquire patents through acquisitions or direct prosecution efforts and engage in licensing transactions to secure the right to use third parties’ patents.  In view of our rapid innovation and product development and the comparative pace of governments’ patenting processes, there is no guarantee that our products will not be obsolete before the related patents expire or are granted.  However, we believe the duration and scope of our most relevant patents are sufficient to support our business, which as a whole is not significantly dependent on any particular patent or other intellectual property right.  As we expand our products and offerings, we also seek to expand our patent prosecution efforts to cover such products.    We periodically register federal trademarks, service marks and trade names that distinguish our product brand names in the market.  We also monitor these marks for their proper and intended use.  Additionally, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements to protect our interest in confidential and proprietary information that gives us a competitive advantage, including business strategies, unpatented inventions, designs and process technology.  Such information is closely monitored and made available only to those employees whose responsibilities require access to the information.EmployeesOn March 30, 2019, we had more than 8,100 employees.  We believe that our future prospects will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain skilled employees.  Competition for skilled personnel is intense, and the number of persons with relevant experience, particularly in RF engineering, product design and technical marketing, is limited.  None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union.  Some of our employees in Germany and the Netherlands are represented by internal works councils and some of our employees in China are represented by a labor union.  As of March 30, 2019, approximately 10% of our global workforce was represented by a works council or labor union.  We have never experienced any work stoppage, and we believe that our current employee relations are good.  Environmental MattersBy virtue of operating our wafer fabrication facilities, we are subject to a variety of extensive and changing domestic and international federal, state and local governmental laws, regulations and ordinances related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in the manufacturing process.  We pretreat and dispose of our wastewater for most of our manufacturing facilities, and we contract for the disposal of our hazardous waste.  State agencies require us to report storage and emissions of environmentally hazardous materials, and we have retained appropriate personnel to help ensure compliance with all applicable environmental regulations.  We believe that costs arising from existing environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  We are an ISO 14001:2015 certified manufacturer with a comprehensive Environmental Management System ("EMS") in place to help ensure control of the environmental aspects of the manufacturing process.  Our EMS mandates compliance and establishes appropriate checks and balances to minimize the potential for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.We actively monitor the hazardous materials that are used in the manufacture, assembly and test of our products, particularly materials that are retained in the final product.  We have developed specific restrictions on the content of certain hazardous materials in our products, as well as those of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers and subcontractors.  This helps to ensure that our products are compliant with the requirements of the markets into which the products will be sold and with our customers’ requirements.  For example, our products are compliant with the European Union RoHS Directive (2011/65/EU on the Restriction of Use of Hazardous Substances), which prohibits 10Table of Contentsthe sale in the European Union market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain families of substances above a specified threshold.Historically, the costs to comply with applicable environmental regulations have not been material and we currently do not expect the costs of complying with existing environmental regulations to have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, capital resources or financial condition in fiscal 2020.Access to Public InformationWe make available, free of charge through our website (http://www.qorvo.com), our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  The public may also request a copy of our forms filed with the SEC, without charge upon written request, directed to:Investor Relations Department Qorvo, Inc., 7628 Thorndike Road Greensboro, NC 27409-9421The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We have included our website address as a factual reference and do not intend it as an active link to our website.In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 