RISK FACTORS.Our operating results fluctuate.Our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future.  If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted.  Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:•changes in business and macroeconomic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy and changes in credit markets;•changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices;•fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products;•our ability to predict market requirements and evolving industry standards accurately and in a timely manner;•our ability to predict customer demand accurately to limit obsolete inventory, which would reduce our margins;•the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner;•our customers’ and distributors’ ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products;•our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; •our ability to respond to downward pressure on the average selling prices of our products; and•our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand.16Table of ContentsIt is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors.  If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.Our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins. The average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products' lives and we expect this to continue.  To offset these average selling price decreases, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products, and introduce new products that can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance.  Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers.  The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past.  Our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following:•our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements;•our ability to design products that meet our customers’ cost, size and performance requirements;•acceptance of our new product designs;•the availability of qualified product designers;•our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers’ needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and•market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products.We may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet the requirements of the market or our customers.  In that case, we likely will not reach the expected level of production orders, which could adversely affect our operating results.  Even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured.  Design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more.  Many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly impact the revenue obtained from a design win.  The actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customer’s product.We depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue.A substantial portion of our MP revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers.  Our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base.We typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time.  Increasingly, the largest cellular handset OEMs are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities.  While the rewards for a design win are financially greater, competition for these projects is intense.  The concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors affecting those customers.  For example, if demand for their products decreases, they may stop purchasing our products and our operating results would suffer.  Most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their products with little notice to us and with little or no penalty.  The loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.17Table of ContentsWe face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the U.S. government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed.We receive a portion of our revenue from the U.S. government and from prime contractors on U.S. government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications.  These programs are subject to delays or cancellation.  Further, spending on defense and aerospace contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the U.S. government. We believe our government and defense and aerospace contracts in the recent past have been negatively affected by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. Reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We depend heavily on third parties.We purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers.  We also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel.  The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs.We currently use several external manufacturing suppliers to supplement our internal manufacturing capabilities.  We believe all of our key vendors and suppliers are compliant with applicable ISO 9001 and/or TS-16949 standards.  However, if these vendors' processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations.We face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities.We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Florida, North Carolina, Oregon and Texas.  We currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in the U.S., China, Costa Rica, the Philippines and Germany to assemble and test our products.  We currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in the U.S., China, Costa Rica and the Philippines, and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in Asia to test our products.A number of factors will affect the future success of our facilities, including the following:•demand for our products;•our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products;•our ability to generate revenue in amounts that cover the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities;•our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner;•the availability of raw materials and the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing on raw materials, including GaAs substrates, gold and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and beryllium;•our manufacturing cycle times;•our manufacturing yields;•the political and economic risks associated with our manufacturing operations in China, Costa Rica, the Philippines and Germany;•potential violations by our international employees or third-party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations;18Table of Contents•our reliance on our internal facilities;•our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel;•our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations, including social responsibilities and conflict minerals requirements;•our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason; and•the occurrence of natural disasters anywhere in the world, which could directly or indirectly affect our facilities, subcontractor operations, and supply chain.Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, climate change, medical epidemics or pandemics and other public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other natural or man-made disasters or catastrophic events.  We carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations.  However, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and increase our costs and expenses.  Any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions might adversely impact our relationships with our customers.If we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer.Our products are very complex.  Each product has a unique design and is fabricated using semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex.  In many cases, the products are assembled in customized packages.  Our products, many of which consist of multiple components in a single package, feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity.  Our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability.  Our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields.  Due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products.Our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products.  The number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the following:•design errors;•defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer);•minute impurities in materials used;•contamination of the manufacturing environment;•equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes;•losses from broken wafers or other human error; and•defects in packaging.We constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields.  Typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected.19Table of ContentsCosts of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following:• writing off the value of inventory;•disposing of products that cannot be fixed; •recalling products that have been shipped; •providing product replacements or modifications; •direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and •defending against litigation.  These costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins.  Our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results.We are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products.In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers.  However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer.  As a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales.  Because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs.  These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory.  If product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results.We sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business.Platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for OEMs and ODMs that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products.  A platform provider may own or control IP that gives it a strong market position for their baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of RF products for these standards.  Platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide RF products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other RF companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design.  This market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own RF technologies and components.Platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor.  Accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors.  Because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive RF technologies or their own RF solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with OEMs and ODMs that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. This requires us to work more closely with OEMs and ODMs to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices.Our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.20Table of ContentsWe are subject to risks from international sales and operations.We operate globally with sales offices and R&D activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries.  As a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the U.S.  Global operations involve inherent risks that include currency controls and fluctuations as well as tariff, import and other related restrictions and regulations.Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 88% of our revenue in fiscal 2016, of which approximately 61% and 14% were attributable to sales to customers located in China and Taiwan, respectively.  We expect that revenue from international sales to China and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue.  Any weakness in the Chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business.Because the majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our products become less price-competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the U.S. dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars.   The majority of our assembly, test and tape and reel vendors are located in Asia.  We do the majority of our business with our foreign assemblers in U.S. dollars.  Our manufacturing costs could increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the U.S. dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure that our international manufacturing suppliers will continue to accept orders denominated in U.S. dollars.In addition, if terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability occur, such events may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications, and could also result in reduced demand for our products.  Pandemics and similar major health concerns could also adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns.  We could also be affected if labor issues disrupt our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers.  On a worldwide basis, we regularly review our key infrastructure, systems, services and suppliers, both internally and externally, to seek to identify significant vulnerabilities as well as areas of potential business impact if a disruptive event were to occur.  Once identified, we assess the risks, and as we consider it to be appropriate, we initiate actions intended to minimize the risks and their potential impact.  However, there can be no assurance that we have identified all significant risks or that we can mitigate all identified risks with reasonable effort.Economic regulation in China could adversely impact our business and results of operations.We have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in China.  In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation.  In response to these factors, the Chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices.  Such actions in the future could increase the cost of doing business in China or decrease the demand for our products in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.In May 2015, China’s government implemented a policy applicable to the three Chinese state-owned mobile telecommunications carriers that mandated 4G LTE network improvements and that implemented subsidies for Chinese consumers for both the purchase of 4G LTE mobile devices and for mobile telecom data service fees.  If subsidies under this policy are ended or curtailed, our business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.We operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies.We compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling RF solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules.  In addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products.  Increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs.21Table of ContentsMany of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with OEMs, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established IP rights and substantial technological capabilities.  Many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors.Our industry's technology changes rapidly.We primarily design and manufacture high-performance semiconductor components for wireless applications.  Our markets are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product and process technologies and consumer demand for greater functionality, lower costs, smaller products and better performance.  As a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience some product design obsolescence.  We expect our customers' demands for reductions in cost and improvements in product performance to continue, which means that we must continue to improve our product designs and develop new products that may use new technologies.  It is possible that competing technologies will emerge that permit the manufacture of products that are equivalent or acceptable in terms of performance, but lower in cost, to the products we make under existing processes.  If we cannot design products using competitive technologies or develop competitive products, our operating results will be adversely affected.Industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.It is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the demand for our products, which makes it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity.  In prior fiscal years, we have added significant capacity through acquisitions as well as by expanding capacity at our existing manufacturing facilities, and we are in the process of expanding our BAW, SAW and TC-SAW filter capacity at our existing facilities, including a new facility that we purchased in the first quarter of fiscal 2017.In the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to oversupply situations.  Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market.  As many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of overcapacity.  If the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on average selling prices, our gross margin and other operating results.We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing.We maintain a five-year senior credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and a lender, and a syndicate of other lenders (the “Credit Agreement”).  The Credit Agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.  We may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150.0 million.  The revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes.  This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. We cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our Senior Notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful.In November 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes due 2023 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2025 (collectively, the “Notes”).  Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the Notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  We cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating 22Table of Contentsactivities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the Notes.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the Notes.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds sought from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.  Additionally, the agreements governing our Credit Agreement and the Indenture governing the Notes limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations.  Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.The Credit Agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the Indenture governing the Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to:•incur additional debt;•pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;•make loans and investments;•sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets;•incur or permit to exist certain liens;•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and•consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.These covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete.  In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants.  Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility.  If we violate covenants under the Credit Agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders.  Because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt.  If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it.  Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.The price of our common stock may be volatile.The price of our common stock, which is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations.  In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate 23Table of Contentsand cause significant price variations to occur.  Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include:•general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry;•actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results;•differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;•changes in recommendations by securities analysts;•operations and stock performance of competitors;•accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill;•significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors;•sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;•recruitment or departure of key personnel; and•loss of key customers.We cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.  In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance.We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders’ ownership and cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities.As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities.  In the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities.  Such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock.  Acquisitions also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including:•unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements;•acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles;•diversion of management's attention from our business;•injury to existing business relationships with s