BUSINESS.Company Overview Qorvo® is a leader in the development and commercialization of technologies and products for wireless and wired connectivity.  We combine a broad portfolio of innovative radio frequency ("RF") solutions, highly differentiated semiconductor technologies, systems-level expertise and global manufacturing scale to supply a diverse set of customers a broad range of products that enable a more connected world. Our design expertise and manufacturing capabilities span multiple semiconductor process technologies.   Our primary wafer fabrication facilities are in North Carolina, Oregon and Texas, and our primary assembly and test facilities are in China, Costa Rica, Germany and Texas.  We also source multiple products and materials through external suppliers.  We operate design, sales and other manufacturing facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America.We have two reportable segments: Mobile Products ("MP") and Infrastructure and Defense Products ("IDP").  MP is a global supplier of cellular, ultra-wide band ("UWB") and Wi-Fi solutions for a variety of high-volume markets, including smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and Internet of Things ("IoT") applications.  IDP is a global supplier of RF, system-on-a-chip ("SoC") and power management solutions for wireless infrastructure, defense, smart home, automotive and other IoT applications.  Our MP segment supplies consumer products with a shorter life cycle, to a small set of large global customers.  Our IDP segment supplies a diverse portfolio of products, that generally have longer life cycles, to a broad base of customers.During fiscal 2020, we made the following strategic acquisitions to expand our product offerings and design capabilities and to extend our reach into new markets:•Active-Semi International, Inc. ("Active-Semi"), a fabless supplier of programmable power management solutions;  •Cavendish Kinetics Limited ("Cavendish"), a supplier of high-performance RF microelectromechanical system ("MEMS") technology for RF switching applications;  •Custom MMIC Design Services, Inc. ("Custom MMIC"), a fabless provider of gallium arsenide ("GaAs") and gallium nitride ("GaN") monolithic microwave integrated circuits ("MMICs") for defense and aerospace applications; and,  4Table of Contents•Decawave Limited ("Decawave"), a leader in UWB technology and provider of UWB solutions for mobile, automotive and IoT applications.Qorvo was incorporated in Delaware in 2013.  Our principal executive office is located at 7628 Thorndike Road, Greensboro, North Carolina 27409-9421 and our telephone number is (336) 664-1233.Industry TrendsThere is growing global demand for ubiquitous, always-on connectivity.  Total mobile data traffic continues to grow as smartphones, laptops, and other mobile devices are used increasingly to access the internet, stream videos, interact on social media and access other services.  5G is expected to enhance how we connect, communicate and transact business.  5G will improve network capacity, increase data throughput, reduce signal latency and enable machine-to-machine connectivity on a massive scale.  Existing applications will be transformed, and new applications will be developed. With each application, demand is increasing for RF solutions that improve performance, reduce product footprint, enhance network efficiency and ensure data security.  In mobile devices, the deployment of 5G, the addition of Multiple-Input/Multiple-Output ("MIMO") architectures and new carrier aggregation ("CA") band combinations increase device complexity.  To address this, Qorvo is integrating a broad portfolio of technologies and advancing the state-of-the-art in functional integration.  In consumer IoT, the increasing demand for secure and accurate location and data communication services is driving demand for our UWB technology, which enables real-time, highly accurate and reliable local area precision-location services.  In infrastructure, the deployment of 5G networks is driving demand for Qorvo’s high performance communications infrastructure solutions, including our GaN high power amplifiers and GaAs front-end modules ("FEMs").  In defense and aerospace, the trend toward phased array radar, the shift to higher frequencies and the sharing of existing frequency bands with cellular communications are expanding the demand for Qorvo’s capabilities.MarketsOur business is diversified primarily across the following end markets: mobile devices; cellular base stations; defense and aerospace; Wi-Fi customer premises equipment; smart home; automotive connectivity; and various power management applications.  Mobile DevicesOur largest market, mobile devices, includes smartphones, wearables, laptops, tablets and other devices.  This market is characterized by increasing demand for data throughput, the transition to 5G cellular technology and the proliferation of new communication and location-based services.  The transition to 5G involves advanced RF modulation across a wide range of frequency bands, including sub-6 GHz and millimeter wave.  This introduces new challenges related to wider bandwidth, signal integrity, efficiency and overall system complexity.  To enable secure precision-location services, mobile devices are adopting UWB technology, given its superior location accuracy, security, throughput, and latency versus other short-range technologies. Mobile device customers increasingly need compact RF solutions that improve signal quality, extend battery life and enhance the end-user experience.  By leveraging our technology leadership, systems-level expertise and advanced packaging capabilities, we deliver high-performance discrete and highly integrated RF solutions to our customers. Cellular Base StationsWe support top-tier global cellular base station original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") with a broad portfolio of RF solutions across frequency bands.  Requirements for higher throughput and broader coverage are fueling the expansion of the global base station network, including the migration to 5G networks.  OEMs are deploying 5G frequency bands (referred to as sub-6 GHz and millimeter wave) that have wider channel bandwidths, and they are architecting radios that utilize massive MIMO active antenna array technology, increasing the number of RF transmit and receive channels by factors of 16 times, up to 256 times.  These 5G networks require highly efficient RF solutions that increase capacity and expand coverage in a compact form factor.  5Table of ContentsDefense and AerospaceWithin the defense and aerospace markets, we focus primarily on high-power phased array radar, electronic warfare (EW) and communications systems.  We engage directly with the U.S. government to develop next-generation semi-conductor and packaging technologies.  We are a leading supplier of RF products and compound semiconductor foundry services to defense primes and other global defense and aerospace customers.  Wi-Fi Customer Premises EquipmentWi-Fi customer premises equipment ("CPE") includes routers, gateways and enterprise infrastructure.  In this market, consumer and enterprise customers want broader coverage and faster and more reliable connectivity enabling video streaming, augmented/virtual reality and other services, often in high density user environments.  The Wi-Fi industry is migrating from 802.11ac to 802.11ax, also known as Wi-Fi 6.  Wi-Fi is adopting higher order MIMO architectures, up to 8x8, to maximize range and capacity.  With each new standard and architecture, there is a corresponding increase in the requirements for more complex RF front end solutions.  Smart Home Smart home systems can be connected wirelessly allowing remote access and control of various household functions, enhancing convenience, entertainment, security and comfort.  Smart home devices can be controlled through a computer, smartphone or through a direct peer-to-peer connection such as a voice-enabled remote control.  They use industry-standard technologies, such as Bluetooth® Low Energy, Zigbee, Thread and Connected Home over IP, or CHIP, to link to a central gateway that accesses the internet via Wi-Fi.  Smart home customers prefer standards-agnostic, multi-protocol products that extend battery life and enable coexistence of multiple radios in a compact form factor.  AutomotiveNext-generation wireless technologies are enabling new use cases in automotive wireless connectivity, including vehicle-to-vehicle communications and autonomous driving.  These new use cases require complex RF solutions spanning multiple protocols, including GPS, satellite radio, Long-Term Evolution ("LTE"), Wi-Fi, 5G (sub-6 GHz and millimeter wave) and UWB.  In automotive applications, UWB enables more secure access than current technologies.Power ManagementPower efficiency is a core requirement in electronics.  To enhance efficiency, extend battery life and protect the environment, power tools are moving from gasoline and brushed DC motors to battery powered brushless motors.  Also, data storage is transitioning from hard drives to solid state drives.  Power management solutions provide customers digital control of analog power, whether controlling brushless DC motors or managing power delivery for end equipment.  Other MarketsQorvo competes in several smaller markets, including broadband cable, point-to-point radio and Very Small Aperture Terminal ("VSAT") applications.  In broadband cable, we increase the bandwidth to the home by supporting DOCSIS 3.1 and the evolving DOCSIS 4.0 standard.  Qorvo’s UWB technology offers secure precision-location services, enabling association, navigation and location for a range of IoT applications across markets.  ProductsQorvo’s products improve performance, reduce complexity, shrink form factors and solve our customers' most critical RF challenges. Mobile DevicesOur products include highly integrated modules incorporating switches, power amplifiers ("PAs"), filters and duplexers ("S-PADs"), antenna tuners, RF power management integrated circuits, multimode/multi-band PAs and transmit modules, antenna-plexers, discrete filters and duplexers, discrete switches and UWB system solutions.Our most highly integrated products utilize sophisticated packaging capabilities to integrate high-performance components, including bulk acoustic wave ("BAW") filters, temperature-compensated surface acoustic wave ("TC-SAW") filters, silicon on insulator ("SOI") switches and low noise amplifiers ("LNAs"), and advanced GaAs PAs.6Table of ContentsWe also offer envelope tracking power management solutions, antenna control solutions and UWB system solutions supporting secure, low power, location and communication services.Cellular Base StationsOur integrated solutions for massive MIMO systems include switch-LNA modules, variable gain amplifiers and integrated PA Doherty modules.  Our GaAs and SOI solutions offer differentiated low noise performance, while our GaN PAs target higher frequency bands and combine high linearity and efficiency with low power consumption.Defense and AerospaceOur products for defense radar applications bring new capabilities to detect and neutralize threats against infantry, aircrew and shipboard forces.  Our PAs power phased array radars and our premium filters enable interference-free connections and optimize frequency spectrum to expand network capacity and extend coverage.  Our Spatium® line of solid-state, high-power products provide highly reliable, efficient broadband solutions for complex EW applications across a broad frequency spectrum.  Our recent acquisition of Custom MMIC combines their portfolio of low noise amplifiers, mixers, phase shifters, switches, multipliers and attenuators with our product offerings.  Wi-Fi Customer Premises EquipmentIn Wi-Fi, we offer PAs, switches, LNAs and BAW filters.  We integrate combinations of these into RF front end modules.Smart HomeQorvo offers multi-standard SOCs (Zigbee, Bluetooth® Low Energy, Thread) consisting of SoC hardware, firmware and application software.  To augment the SoC, we also offer various configurations of advanced filtering and amplification as well as Wi-Fi 6 FEMs. AutomotiveWe provide a variety of automotive RF connectivity products, including BAW filters, LNAs, switches, PAs and LTE front end solutions.  We also supply complementary metal oxide semiconductor ("CMOS")-based UWB chip and module system solutions.  Our products meet or exceed automotive AEC-Q100 quality and reliability standards, and we supply the leading automotive OEMs, tier-1 suppliers and chipset vendors.Power ManagementWe supply Power Application Controllers (PACs®) and programmable analog power ICs that significantly reduce solution size and cost, improve system reliability, and shorten system development time.  Our products manage voltages from 1.8V to 600V and power up to 4,000 Watts.Research and DevelopmentWe invest in research and development ("R&D") to develop advanced technologies and products necessary to serve our markets.  Our R&D activities focus primarily on large, competitive design win opportunities for major programs at key customers, which typically requires us to improve the functional density, performance, size and cost of our products.  We also have R&D resources associated with the development of new products for broader market applications.  Our R&D efforts require us to focus on both continuous improvement in our processes for design and manufacture as well as new innovation in fundamental areas like materials, software and firmware, semiconductor process technologies, simulation and modeling, systems architecture, circuit design, device packaging, module integration and test. We have developed several generations of GaAs, GaN, BAW and surface acoustic wave ("SAW") process technologies that we manufacture internally.  We invest in these technologies to improve device performance, reduce die size and reduce manufacturing costs.  We also help develop and qualify technologies in cooperation with key suppliers, including SOI for switches and tuners, silicon germanium (SiGe) for amplifiers, and CMOS for power management devices and SoC solutions.  We combine these technologies with our proprietary design methods, intellectual property ("IP") and other expertise to improve performance, increase integration and reduce the size and cost of our products.We develop and qualify advanced packaging technologies to reduce component size, improve performance and reduce package costs.  We are also investing in large scale module assembly and test capabilities to bring these technologies to market in very high volumes.7Table of ContentsRaw Materials We purchase numerous raw materials, passive components and substrates for our products and manufacturing processes.  The industry has experienced isolated shortages for various components in the past 12 months, including capacitors.  These shortages are being addressed by suppliers adding additional capacity as we build in flexibility to our supply chain by adding suppliers and by designing in alternate capacitors to use in our products.For our GaAs and GaN manufacturing operations, we use several raw materials, including GaAs and GaN on silicon carbide wafers.  For our acoustic filter manufacturing operations, we use several raw materials, including wafers made from silicon, lithium niobate or lithium tantalate. For our silicon-based products, we use third-party foundries.  High demand for silicon wafers and wafer starting materials has led to supply constraints from time-to-time, and we have attempted to address this by qualifying multiple silicon foundries and by obtaining supply commitments, in some cases in exchange for purchase or capital commitments by us.Our manufacturing strategy includes a balance of internal and external sites (primarily for assembly and test operations), which helps reduce costs, provides flexibility of supply, and minimizes the risk of supply disruption.  We routinely qualify multiple sources of supply and manufacturing sites to reduce the risk of supply interruptions or price increases and closely monitor suppliers’ key performance indicators.  Our suppliers' and our manufacturing sites are geographically diversified (with our largest volume sources distributed throughout Southern and Eastern Asia).  We believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials, passive components and substrates for our products and manufacturing needs.Qorvo is currently experiencing isolated supply-chain issues caused by the recent novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak.  While this is a dynamic situation impacting the entire industry, we have a broadly diversified supply base and our operations are not currently materially impacted.Manufacturing We are a manufacturer of BAW, GaN, GaAs, SAW, TC-SAW and silicon products.  The majority of our products are multi-chip modules utilizing multiple semiconductor and acoustic material processing technologies.  These products have varying degrees of complexity and contain semiconductors and other components that are manufactured internally or outsourced.  We operate wafer fabrication facilities for the production of BAW, GaN, GaAs, SAW and TC-SAW wafers in Greensboro, North Carolina; Hillsboro, Oregon; and Richardson, Texas.  We also use multiple silicon-based process technologies, including SOI, SiGe and CMOS, which are principally sourced from leading silicon foundries located throughout the world.  We have a global supply chain and ship millions of units per day.We have our own flip chip, wire bond and wafer-level packaging ("WLP") technologies.  Additionally, we use external suppliers for these and other packaging technologies. At the end of the semiconductor manufacturing process, we regularly conduct wafer level tests to verify individual circuit performance.  These tests could include electrical validation, RF testing through designed frequency bands, as well as visual defect inspection.  The wafers are then separated into individual components called die.  For module products, the next step is assembly, during which the die and other components are placed on high-density interconnect substrates to provide connectivity between the die and the components.  This populated substrate is formed into a module.  Next, the products are tested for RF performance and prepared for shipment through a tape and reel process.  We primarily use internal assembly facilities in China, Costa Rica, Germany, and the U.S., and we also utilize external suppliers.  We also manufacture large volumes of WLP die and discrete filters that our customers directly assemble into their products.Manufacturing yields can vary significantly between products, based on a number of factors, including product complexity, performance requirements and the maturity of our manufacturing processes.  To maximize wafer yields and quality, we test products multiple times, maintain continuous reliability monitoring and conduct numerous quality control inspections throughout the production flow. 8Table of ContentsOur internal manufacturing facilities require a high level of fixed costs, consisting primarily of occupancy costs, maintenance, repair, equipment depreciation, and fixed labor costs related to manufacturing and process engineering.Integrated circuits and filter products are highly complex and sensitive to contaminants, and semiconductor fabrication requires highly controlled, clean environments.  Wafers can be rejected or die on a wafer can be found to be nonfunctional as a result of minute impurities, variances in the fabrication process or defects in the masks used to transfer circuit patterns onto the wafers.Our manufacturing facilities worldwide are certified to the ISO 9001 quality standard, and select locations are certified to additional automotive (IATF 16949), aerospace (AS 9100) and environmental (ISO 14001) standards.  These stringent standards are audited and certified by third-party auditors in addition to our continuous internal self-audits.  The ISO 9001 standard is based on a number of quality management principles including a strong customer focus, the motivation of top management, the process approach and continual improvement.  IATF 16949 is the highest international quality standard for the global automotive industry and incorporates specific additional requirements for the automotive industry.  AS 9100 is the standardized quality management system for the aerospace industry.  ISO 14001 is an internationally agreed upon standard for an environmental management system.  We require that all of our key vendors and suppliers be compliant with select standards, as applicable.CustomersWe design, develop, manufacture and market products for leading U.S. and international OEMs and original design manufacturers ("ODMs").  We also collaborate with leading reference design partners. We provide our products to our largest end customer, Apple Inc. ("Apple"), through sales to multiple contract manufacturers, which in the aggregate accounted for 33%, 32%, and 36% of total revenue in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and affiliates ("Huawei") accounted for 10%, 15% and 8% of our total revenue in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  These customers primarily purchase RF solutions for a variety of mobile devices. Some of our sales to overseas customers are subject to export licenses or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. Department of Commerce (see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A set forth in this report).Sales and MarketingWe sell our products worldwide directly to customers as well as through a network of U.S. and foreign sales representative firms and distributors.  We select our domestic and foreign sales representatives based on technical skills and sales experience, the presence of complementary product lines and the customer base served.  We provide ongoing training to our internal and external sales representatives and distributors to keep them educated about our products.  We maintain an internal sales and marketing organization that is responsible for key account management, application engineering support for customers, sales and advertising literature, and technical presentations for industry conferences.  Our sales and customer support centers are located near our customers throughout the world.Our website contains extensive product information and includes an online store where customers can learn about our products, download product catalogs, order product samples and request evaluation boards.  Our global team of application engineers interacts with customers during all stages of design and production, maintains regular contact with customer engineers, provides product application notes and engineering data, and assists in the resolution of technical problems.  We maintain close relationships with our customers and platform providers and provide them strong technical support to help anticipate future product needs and enhance their customer experience. Backlog and SeasonalityOur sales are the result of standard purchase orders or specific agreements with customers.  Because industry practice allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels.9Table of ContentsHistorically, we have experienced seasonal fluctuations in the sale of mobile products, with revenue typically strongest in our second and third fiscal quarters. CompetitionWe operate in a competitive industry characterized by rapid advances in technology and new product introductions.  Our customers’ product life cycles are often short, and our competitiveness depends on our ability to improve our products and processes faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer requirements and successfully develop and launch new products while reducing our costs.  Our competitiveness is also affected by the quality of our customer service and technical support and our ability to design customized products that address each customer’s particular requirements within their cost limitations.  The selection process for our products to be included in our customers’ products is highly competitive, and our customers provide no guarantees that our products will be included in the next-generation of products introduced.MP competes primarily with Broadcom Limited; Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.; and Skyworks Solutions, Inc.  IDP competes primarily with Analog Devices, Inc.; Cree, Inc.; M/A-COM Technology Solutions, Inc.; NXP Semiconductors N.V.; Silicon Laboratories, Inc.; STMicroelectronics N.V.; Skyworks Solutions, Inc.; and Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations.Many of our current and potential competitors have entrenched market positions and customer relationships, established patents and other IP and substantial technological capabilities.  In some cases, our competitors are also our customers or suppliers.  Additionally, many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do, which may allow them to implement new technologies and develop new products more quickly than we can.Intellectual PropertyWe believe our IP, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, is important to our business, and we actively seek opportunities to leverage our IP portfolio to promote our business interests.  We also actively seek to monitor and protect our global IP rights and to deter unauthorized use of our IP and other assets.  Such efforts can be difficult because of the absence of consistent international standards and laws.  Moreover, we respect the IP rights of others and have implemented policies and procedures to mitigate the risk of infringing or misappropriating third-party IP.Patent applications are filed within the U.S. and in other countries where we have a market presence.  On occasion, some applications do not mature into patents for various reasons, including rejections based on prior art.  In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect IP rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  We have approximately 1,973 patents that expire from 2020 to 2040.  We also continue to acquire patents through acquisitions or direct prosecution efforts and engage in licensing transactions to secure the right to use third-parties’ patents.  In view of our rapid innovation and product development and the comparative pace of governments’ patenting processes, there is no guarantee that our products will not be obsolete before the related patents expire or are granted.  However, we believe the duration and scope of our most relevant patents are sufficient to support our business, which as a whole is not significantly dependent on any particular patent or other IP right.  As we expand our products and offerings, we also seek to expand our patent prosecution efforts to cover such products.    We periodically register federal trademarks, service marks and trade names that distinguish our product brand names in the market.  We also monitor these marks for their proper and intended use.  Additionally, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements to protect our interest in confidential and proprietary information that gives us a competitive advantage, including business strategies, unpatented inventions, designs and process technology.  Such information is closely monitored and made available only to those employees whose responsibilities require access to the information.EmployeesOn March 28, 2020, we had more than 7,900 employees.  We believe that our future prospects will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain skilled employees.  Competition for skilled personnel is intense, and the number of persons with relevant experience, particularly in RF engineering, product design and technical marketing, is limited.  None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union.  Some of our employees in 10Table of ContentsGermany and the Netherlands are represented by internal works councils and some of our employees in China are represented by a labor union.  As of March 28, 2020, approximately 12% of our global workforce was represented by a works council or labor union.  We have never experienced any work stoppage, and we believe that our current employee relations are good.  Environmental MattersBy virtue of operating our wafer fabrication facilities, we are subject to a variety of extensive and changing domestic and international federal, state and local governmental laws, regulations and ordinances related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in the manufacturing process.  We pretreat and dispose of our wastewater from our manufacturing facilities to meet or exceed regulatory requirements.  Our hazardous waste is sent to only licensed and permitted disposal facilities.  State agencies require us to report storage and emissions of environmentally hazardous materials, and we have retained appropriate personnel to help ensure compliance with all applicable environmental regulations.  We believe that costs arising from existing environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  We are an ISO 14001:2015 certified manufacturer with a comprehensive Environmental Management System ("EMS") in place to help ensure control of the environmental aspects of the manufacturing process.  Our EMS mandates compliance and establishes appropriate checks and balances to minimize the potential for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.We actively monitor the hazardous materials that are used in the manufacture, assembly and test of our products, particularly materials that are retained in the final product.  We have developed specific restrictions on the content of certain hazardous materials in our products, as well as those of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers and subcontractors.  This helps to ensure that our products are compliant with the requirements of the markets into which the products will be sold and with our customers’ requirements.  For example, our products are compliant with the European Union RoHS Directive (2011/65/EU on the Restriction of Use of Hazardous Substances), which prohibits the sale in the European Union market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing certain families of substances above a specified threshold.Historically, the costs to comply with applicable environmental regulations have not been material, and we currently do not expect the costs of complying with existing environmental regulations to have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, capital resources or financial condition in fiscal 2021.Access to Public InformationWe make available, free of charge through our website (http://www.qorvo.com), our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in iXBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these reports with, or furnish them to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  The public may also request a copy of our forms filed with the SEC, without charge upon written request, directed to:Investor Relations Department Qorvo, Inc., 7628 Thorndike Road, Greensboro, NC 27409-9421The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We have included our website address as a factual reference and do not intend it as an active link to our website.In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 11Table of Contents