RISK FACTORS.Our operating results fluctuate.Our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future.  If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted.  Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:•business, political and macroeconomic changes, including trade disputes and downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy;•changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices;•fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products;•our ability to forecast our customers' demand for our products accurately;•the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner;•our customers’ and distributors’ ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products;•our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; •our ability to realize the expected benefits of any acquisitions or strategic investments, including our recent acquisition of Active-Semi International, Inc. (“Active-Semi”); and11Table of Contents•our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or to acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand.It is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors.  In addition, any prolonged adverse effect on revenue could alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short-term and long-term strategies.  If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.Our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins as our industry’s product life cycles are short and our customers' requirements change rapidly.Our largest markets are characterized by short product life cycles and the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product requirements, driven by end user demand for more functionality, improved performance, lower costs and smaller form factors.  Our largest MP customers typically refresh some or all of their product portfolios by releasing new models each year.  In some cases, product designs we pursue represent either opportunities to substantially increase our revenue by winning a new design or a risk of a substantial revenue loss by losing an incumbent product in a customer's device. Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers.  The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past.  Our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following:•our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements;•our ability to design products that meet our customers’ cost, size and performance requirements;•our ability to introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance;•acceptance of our new product designs;•the availability of qualified product design engineers;•our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers’ needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and•market acceptance of our customers’ products and the duration of the life cycle of such products.We may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements.  Most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performing product.  If we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins against our competitors, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected.  Even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured.  Design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more.  Many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win.  In many cases, the average selling prices of our products decline over the products’ lives, and we must achieve yield improvements, cost reductions and other productivity enhancements in order to maintain profitability.  The actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers’ products.We depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue.A substantial portion of our MP revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers.  Our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base.  Collectively, our two largest end customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 45%, 44% and 45% of our revenue for fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 12Table of ContentsThe top-tier cellular handset OEMs are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities.  While the financial rewards and market affirmation from a design win for these premier customers are greater, competition for these projects is intense.  The concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors, both positive and negative, affecting those customers.  If demand for their products increases, our results are favorably impacted, while if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of, or stop purchasing, our products and our operating results would suffer.  Even if we achieve a design win, our customers can delay or cancel the release of a new handset for any reason.  Most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their devices with little notice to us and with little or no penalty.  The loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the United States government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced.We receive a portion of our revenue from the United States government and from prime contractors on United States government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications.  These programs are subject to delays or cancellation.  Further, spending on defense and aerospace programs can vary significantly depending on funding from the United States government. We believe our government and defense and aerospace business has been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending.  Reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We depend heavily on third parties.We purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers.  We also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel.  The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs.Although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable ISO 9001 and/or TS-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues in the past with certain suppliers.  Quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations.We face risks related to sales through distributors. We sell a significant portion of our products through third party distributors.  We depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products.  We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue.  Our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors’ technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of acceptable inventory levels.  Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks.  Other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to the distributors to focus them on the sale of our products.  Our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results.  Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business.  Failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.13Table of ContentsWe face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities.We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Florida, North Carolina, Oregon and Texas.  We currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in China, Costa Rica, Germany and the U.S., to assemble and test our products.  We currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in China, Costa Rica and the U.S., and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in Asia to test our products.A number of factors related to our facilities will affect our business and financial results, including the following:•our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products;•the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities;•factory utilization rates;•our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner;•the availability of raw materials, the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing and tariffs imposed on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium;•our manufacturing cycle times;•our manufacturing yields;•the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations;•potential violations by our international employees or third-party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations;•our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel;•our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations; and•our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason.Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.Our worldwide operations and business could be disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, cybersecurity incidents, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events.  Global climate change could result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms and flooding.  We carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate, for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations.  However, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses.  Any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers.  Furthermore, even if our own operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a business disruption, natural disaster or catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 14Table of ContentsIf we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer.Our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex.  In many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages.  Many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity.  Our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability.  Our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields.  Defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled.  Due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products.Our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products.  The number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including:•design errors;•defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer);•minute impurities and variations in materials used;•contamination of the manufacturing environment;•equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes;•losses from broken wafers or other human error; and•defects in substrates and packaging.We constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields.  Typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected.Costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following:•writing off inventory;•scrapping products that cannot be fixed; •accepting returns of products that have been shipped; •providing product replacements at no charge; •reimbursement of direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling or reworking their products due to defects in our products; •travel and personnel costs to investigate potential product quality issues and to identify or confirm the failure mechanism or root cause of product defects; and •defending against litigation.  These costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins.  Our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results.15Table of ContentsWe are subject to inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products.In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest end customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers.  However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer.  As a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales.  Because demand for our products may not materialize, or may be lower than expected, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs.  These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers’ accumulated levels of inventory.  If product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results.We sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business.Platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for OEMs and ODMs that include the platform provider’s baseband and other complementary products.  A platform provider may own or control IP that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of RF products for these standards.  Platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide RF products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other RF companies to have our products included in the platform provider’s system reference design.  This market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own RF technologies and components.Platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor.  Accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors.  Because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive RF technologies or their own RF solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with OEMs and ODMs that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance.  This requires us to work more closely with OEMs and ODMs to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices.Our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to risks from international sales and operations.We operate globally with sales offices and R&D activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and test facilities in multiple countries, and some of our business activities are concentrated in Asia.  As a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the U.S., including: •global and local economic, social and political conditions and uncertainty;•currency controls and fluctuations;•formal or informal imposition of export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, tariffs and other related restrictions;•labor market conditions and workers’ rights affecting our manufacturing operations or those of our customers or suppliers;•disruptions in capital and securities and commodities trading markets;16Table of Contents•occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, which may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products; •compliance with laws and regulations that differ among jurisdictions, including those covering taxes, intellectual property ownership and infringement, imports and exports, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, antitrust and competition, data privacy, and environment, health, and safety; and•pandemics and similar major health concerns, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns.Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 84% of our revenue in fiscal 2019, of which approximately 57% and 18% were attributable to sales to customers located in China and Taiwan, respectively.  We expect that revenue from international sales to China and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue.  Any weakness in the Chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business.  The imposition by the U.S. of tariffs on goods imported from China, countermeasures imposed by China in response, U.S. export restrictions on sales of products to China and other government actions that restrict or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell our products to Chinese customers, could increase our manufacturing costs and reduce our product sales in China and other markets.As a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates.  Our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results.  The functional currency for most of our international operations is the U.S. dollar.  We have foreign operations in Asia, Europe and Costa Rica, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the U.S.  Our international revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.  Operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the Costa Rican Colon, Euro, Pound Sterling, Renminbi and Singapore Dollar.  If the U.S. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into U.S. dollars.  Economic regulation in China could adversely impact our business and results of operations.We have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in China.  For many years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid growth and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation.  In response to these factors, the Chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and to contain inflation, including currency controls and measures designed to restrict credit, control prices or set currency exchange rates.  Such actions in the future, as well as other changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including actions in furtherance of China’s stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers, could increase the cost of doing business in China, foster the emergence of Chinese-based competitors, decrease the demand for our products in China, or reduce the supply of critical materials for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and export restrictions, could limit our ability to sell our products to certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations.The U.S. or foreign governments may take administrative, legislative or regulatory action that could materially interfere with our ability to sell products in certain countries, particularly in China.  For example, between July 2018 and May 2019, the Office of the United States Trade Representative imposed 25% tariffs on specified product lists, including certain electronic components and equipment, totaling approximately $250 billion in Chinese imports.  In response, China imposed or proposed new or higher tariffs on U.S. products.  The U.S. government has also threatened to impose tariffs on an additional $325 billion of Chinese imports, and China has threatened additional retaliatory actions.  While the imposition of these tariffs did not have a direct, material adverse impact on our business during fiscal year 2019, the direct and indirect effects of tariffs and other restrictive trade policies are difficult to measure and are only one part of a larger U.S./China economic and trade policy disagreement.  For example, imposition of tariffs on our customers’ products that are imported from China to the U.S. could harm sales 17Table of Contentsof such products, which would harm our business.  We cannot predict what actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs or trade relations between the U.S. and China or other countries, what products may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by the other countries in retaliation.Furthermore, we have experienced restrictions on our ability to sell products to certain foreign customers where sales of products require export licenses or are prohibited by government action.  The U.S. government has in the past issued export restrictions that effectively banned American companies from selling products to ZTE, one of our customers, and in May 2019 imposed a similar ban on sales of all products to Huawei, which accounted for 13% of our total revenue during fiscal 2019.  As of the date of this report, we are unable to predict the scope and duration of the export restrictions imposed on Huawei and the corresponding future effects on our business.  Even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on Huawei could have a continuing negative impact on our future revenue and results of operations.  In addition, Huawei or other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors’ solutions.  Moreover, U.S. government actions targeting exports of certain technologies to China are becoming more pervasive. For example, in 2018, the U.S. adopted new laws designed to address concerns about the export of emerging and foundational technologies to China.  In addition, in May 2019, President Trump issued an executive order that invoked national emergency economic powers to implement a framework to regulate the acquisition or transfer of information communications technology in transactions that imposed undue national security risks.  These actions could lead to additional restrictions on the export of products that include or enable certain technologies, including products we provide to China-based customers.  The loss or temporary loss of Huawei or other foreign customers or the imposition of restrictions on our ability to sell products to such customers as a result of tariffs, export restrictions or other U.S. regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our sales, business and results of operations.We operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies.We compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling RF solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules.  In addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest end customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products.  Increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs.Many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with OEMs, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established IP rights and substantial technological capabilities.  The semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue.  Many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors.Industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.It is difficult to predict future demand for our products, which makes it difficult to estimate future requirements for production capacity and avoid periods of overcapacity.  Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products also can lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market.Capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers.  In recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our premium filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns.  In certain cases, these capacity additions exceeded the near-term demand requirements, leading to overcapacity situations and underutilization of our manufacturing facilities.18Table of ContentsAs many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods of underutilization.  Underutilization of our manufacturing facilities can adversely affect our gross margin and other operating results.  If demand for our products experiences a prolonged decrease, we may be required to close or idle facilities and write down our long-lived assets or shorten the useful lives of underutilized assets and accelerate depreciation, which would increase our expenses.  For example, to address manufacturing overcapacity, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 we commenced a phased closure of a SAW filter manufacturing facility in Florida and a transfer of production to our North Carolina facility, which we expect will be completed by the end of fiscal 2020.  Also, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we announced the temporary idling of a BAW manufacturing facility in Texas.  These actions resulted in impairment charges, accelerated depreciation and other restructuring-related costs and expenses.We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing.On December 5, 2017, we entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, and a syndicate of lenders (as amended, the "Credit Agreement").  The Credit Agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes.  This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with