 Hi, Weaving baskets and braiding  hair for quantum computing.   That's me. In my job i work on understanding the mathematics of quantum computing.   If you had to choose between a course in basket  weaving versus a course in quantum computing   which one would you choose? It sounds like  basket weaving is going to be the easy one   but it turns out that basket weaving is not  so easy and actually we are using some of   these ideas to build quantum computers. Weaving  and knots and braiding has a lot of history: Kelvin had this idea in 1867 that atoms were  actually knots in the ether, that turned out to   be a random guess that was wrong but it inspired  further work into classifying and understanding   knots. Later in the 20th century knots and  braids made a reappearance in physics, now   modern physics is using the mathematics of braids  to understand how particles called anyons behave.   It's very advanced algebra but my hope is that  I can avoid all of the complicated calculations   and still give some idea of what this is all about.   Let me start with the riddle what  stays the same even when you change it? Imagine you go to the shop to buy some cherries,  you ask for three cherries you don't care which   three any will do, all the cherries are the same. If  you don't have numbers in your language you would   have to point at exactly which cherries you want  this is the magic of numbers they make the counted   things the same. You also don't care which order  you get the cherries there are six ways to order   them but it doesn't matter to you. This is how  numbers work they forget how to order the cherries. You can swap them around the same three cherries  swap them again same swap the cherries same swap Adding numbers together works like this as well.   We can change 3 plus 5 into 5 plus 3 and get  the same result because the order doesn't matter.   This is an important theme of modern mathematics  we don't just write three plus five equals   five plus three, what is the process that  changes three plus five into five plus three?   There's more here if you look closer. For  example, how many swaps did we need to use here? We invented numbers thousands of years ago for  describing how different things are somehow the   same. Three cows or three beans or three cherries,  but if you look closer at the cherries you will   always be able to find some variation some  distinguishing marks some slight differences in   size or shape the universe knows these cherries  are not all the same even if you don't care.  Swapping cherries around changes  reality, it changes the universe. Is there anything in the universe  that does act like a number?   Can we find or make any kind  of perfect copies of anything? The answer is yes. When we discovered  quantum physics in the 20th century   we found identical particles. These  yellow balls are particles called bosons.   They don't really look like this but at least  with this picture you can see where they are   and when you swap these around the universe  doesn't notice reality has not changed.   We need a way of writing quantum mathematics.  There's one main rule to learn first here it is,   if something can happen then put a  ket around it to make a quantum state you put the thing that happens inside the kit and  then outside the cat is the quantum mathematics. For example, take some cherries and put  them in a ket, we don't usually do this   because cherries are way too complicated. It  makes more sense to put particles in a ket. Here's three identical bosons in a ket i  put letters on each boson just so we can   see where they move to, the letters are  not real, these bosons are all identical.   When we swap them around the kets are equal after  every swap we just get back the same quantum state. The universe doesn't notice our swaps,  reality is the same after each of the swaps   You might ask how do we know  the bosons really are the same,   maybe it is like the cherries and we just  didn't look close enough, this is a good question. If we didn't have identical bosons  then lasers just would not work   but this is a story for another time. There's another kind of particle called a fermion.  Here I made some green balls to represent fermions.   When we swap two identical fermions the  quantum mathematics is a bit more tricky.   First we need to remember how to multiply with  negative numbers. The rule is a negative times a   negative is a positive just like saying  a bad thing done badly is a good thing.   The other rule is a negative times a positive is a  negative just like saying a bad thing done well is   still a bad thing. So every time we hit this with a  negative the sign flips the good thing becomes bad and then the bad thing becomes good again  and it just keeps going on like that. Now we're ready for the quantum mathematics  of fermions here's how it works when we   swap two identical fermions the quantum  mathematics says that we times by minus one every time we swap two guys over  here the sign flips over here minus one swap plus one swap minus  one and it keeps going on like that. There is a deeper story here just like when  we swap cherries around to make three plus   five into five plus three we discovered a process.   We can do the same here and study the  process that swaps particles around. This process takes place in a three-dimensional  world. Here we swap two fermions, if we do a swap swap one fermion  goes all the way around the other one.   We can see this more clearly if  we follow one of the fermions the other guy just goes all the  way around that's a swap swap. Now let me show the path taken in blue, swap swap, notice that this blue path is near to  another blue path i just moved it a little bit   and that path is near to another  one i moved it a bit more and that's close to another blue path over here   and here's another one just moved a bit more  it's getting smaller and smaller every time   until really we don't need to move  this guy at all. So what does that mean? It means that swap swap does nothing. Swap swap   equals nothing. This is an equation between  processes not just an equation between kets. Here's a summary of what we found so far  swapping identical bosons does nothing the   kets always stay the same swapping identical  fermions multiplies the ket by minus one. What happens when our particles live in only  two dimensions? These particles are called anyons.   I'm going to draw these in purple. Now let's  take one anyon around the other one just like   how we did this with fermions but now  we have only two dimensions to move in. There's no way to retract this blue path it  gets stuck going around the central anyon.   We need the third dimension  to pull this blue path over   and we only have two dimensions now so this  time swap swap doesn't need to do nothing. Let's use the third dimension to show time and  I'll repeat this swap swap process the anyons are   still moving around in two dimensions and we are  using the third dimension to keep a record of the   path you can see this path becomes a braid and we  can't undo this braid, it gets tangled with itself. This is a swap swap of anyons but we can't undo it. Now the quantum mathematics it looks like this.    Except there's a question mark the algebra is  much more tricky so i'm not really going to   talk about that but we can work out what is this  question mark in some cases. For example if we do   a swap and then an un-swap we know we should  be able to undo it and get back to nothing. So that's one equation, and we can always undo whatever  swaps we do just by doing the unswaps   of the swaps in the reverse order and get  back to nothing swap swap un-swap un-swap. So that's another equation and there's  all kinds of equations we could make here:   swap, swap, swap, swap, swap, un-swap, unswap, un-swap, un-swap, un-swap. Actually all of these equations come from  this basic identity swap un-swap is nothing.   Here's a more tricky equation, we can't undo this  to nothing but we can slide the swaps around   so these two processors should be equal. Just like how we started wanting to show  why three plus five cherries is the same   as five plus three cherries and this led  us to think about the process that makes   three plus five equal to five plus three here  we are showing two processes that are equal and   we are showing a process between these processes  that makes them equal. This kind of reasoning is   called topology and manipulating anyons this way  we hope to make a topological quantum computer. This is from the April 2020 issue of  Science magazine. Research groups from   all around the world are working on building  two-dimensional materials where anions can live .  We will have to wait and see how this goes. That's all for now thanks for listening! 