 On September 20, 2019, Google announced that it had completed the calculation, which would take 10,000 years with a supercomputer, in three minutes with a quantum computer. He then said he has reached "quantum supremacy". Quantum supremacy refers to the point at which quantum computers surpass the performance of supercomputers. According to Google, it is 1.7 billion times faster than supercomputers, As a result, quantum computers were born faster than existing classical computers, computers, so it has already surpassed quantum supremacy. Then, can quantum computers be the best computers in the world? We will cover the topic of quantum computers. What is a quantum computer exactly What do you think when you first hear the word quantum computer? We can think normal computer and quantum mechanics like SD equation. Then how are these things related to quantum computers? Unlike normal computers, quantum computers have two effects such as quantum entanglement and superposition. By this properties we can deal large number of cases to solve problem faster. As an example, quantum computers can solve problems problems that require approximately 3.6 million comparisons in just 1900 cases. Then what is the term for quantum entanglement and superposition? Before knowing about Entanglement and Superposition, we first need to know we first need to know the difference between bit and qubit. A qubit is a quantum that constitutes the minimum unit of information of a quantum computer like bits. Bits have a state of 0 or 1. But a qubit can have states of 0 and 1 at the same time. This phenomenon is called quantum superposition. The reason for the quantum superposition is that the signals are divided using energy according to the spin direction of the qubits. spin direction of the qubits when we define this case where the axis of When we define thee case where the axis of rotation faces downward is called 1. And the opposite is 0. The direction of rotation axis can have both zero and one component because the axis of rotation is not located on the vertical axis in the superposition qubits. For example, one qubit can state 0 and 1, so there are two cases with one qubit. And If there are two qubits, there are four cases; and if there are three qubits, there are eight cases. Therefore, as the number of qubits increases there is an exponential increase of 2^n (two to the nth power)cases. Also qubit have a another character called quantum entanglement. According to quantum mechanics, the state of the two particles is unknown before we measure. But if we measure one state, it is determined to another state without without any observation. This phenomenon is quantum entanglement. And which seems as if information moved from one system to another in a matter of seconds. For example, if you have two cats in the North Pole and South pole and know the condition of the cats in the North Pole.Then you can know the condition of the cat in the South Pole without observation. Then where do we use Quantum Computers? And are quantum computers always better than ordinary computers?  The most common misconception is that commercial programs can be easily worked with quantum computers They even believe their online games will be improved by quantum computing However it does not reflect the reality of quantum computing. In fact, it is impossible to improve commercial programs by quantum computing because quantum computing has a completely different principle with the traditional computers it is impossible to simply improve the performance. quantum computing requires the development of new proper algorithms for effective solving. Now we know that quantum computing can only be used for limited cases. so in what way does quantum computing have advantages over traditional cases. These three algorithms are most famous the first algorithm is shor's prime number factoring algorithm. This expresses numbers by multiplication of the prime numbers. In traditional method, it is very difficult to decompose large number to prime number because of the high time complexity the second algorithm is Grover's searching algorithm which finds a specific data among unstructured datas. The classical method has the polynomial time complexity but the Grover's method goes down to root N the third algorithm is Simon's algorithm which is simply period finding algorithm. let's go on a deeper view of Grover's algorithm which is very promising for various field before we get started we are going to take a look brief concepts regarding quantum computing algorithms. Unlike the classical computing qubit doesn't have single state before measurement. This fact makes a concept named Bloch's sphere. It's a schematic representation of a number of superposed state. the North Pole and South Pole of the sphere correspond to classical bit in classical computing. we use logic gate to manipulate input signals into desired output signals. Quantum computing, of course, has same methodology named quantum logic gate. Here is an example let's compare NOT gate of classical computing with quantum computing. In case of classical computing the operation of that gate is simply represented truth table and all of this response is binary however in case of quantum computing the response is not binary. and all of quantum gates are represented by matrix notation. the role of quantum gate is simply matrix operation. If the input enters the gate, its coefficient alpha and beta will be changed this three gates are mostly used in quantum computing X gate has very similar role with NOTgate.  simply exchanges probabilities of 0 & 1 state and G gate is filp operation it changes sign of state 1. Finally this is Hadamard gate it makes superposition between different states now let's learn more about its mathematical meaning. As we see before, any quantum state can be represented on the block's sphere. and the single quantum gate can also be explained by bloch's sphere Any single quantum gate can be represented by combination of rotation operation about XYZ axis of bloch's sphere. you might think single quantum gate is not enough for representing every operation. so we have one more gate which is CNOT gate. it makes correlation between different wires if we use this it's possible to represent eve ry quantum operation So, what’s the Grover’s algorithm? (VVVV) Grover’s algorithm is a powerful algorithm to find certain data from the unstructured database, which can be proceeded only with the quantum computers. For the traditional computers, they have to compare all of their data one-by-one to check if it is the data we want. (VVVV) So, it’s time complexity can be expressed as O(N). however with the quantum computer we can use the superposition of the possible solutions and use grover’s algorithm to quickly find the answer. (VVVV) It’s time complexity is only O square root N. Let’s see the details of the Grover’s algorithm and see how it works. This is the 2 qubit system circuit which conducts grover’s algorithm. (VVVV) Let’s see how the grover algorithm find 11 form the 00, 01, 10, and 11 state. the circuit The circuit starts with two Hadamard gates on each line. After the two initial qubits pass through this gate, all the possible states have same coefficient. If we . If we measure the qubit’s here, we will get all states with same probability, and it and it will not give any information to us. So we need the operator called Oracle. This Oracle let us to distinct the state that we want from the superposition of the all possible solutions the all possible solutions this Oracle is made to find the 1 1 state from this This oracle is made to find the 11 state from the superposition. As you can see, after the two qubits pass through this oracle, the sign in front of the 11 state is changed to negative sign. It help us us to distinct this state from the other states.Also, if we want to distinct another state, we can modify the structure of the oracle. Here we added two X gates gates on upper line. Thus, sign of the 10 state is flipped with this oracle. We can design the oracle to get the proper solution from the super position. superposition after applying Oracle we need division operator to amplify the After applying oracle, we need diffusion operator to amplify the amplitude of the state that we found Even the oracle changes the sign of the target state, still we can’t distinct the state with measurement because there because there probability relies on the square of their coefficient. Diffusion operator subtract average of the state coefficient 2 times from the input state coefficient. Thus, if we apply diffusion operator here, the probability to measure the target state increase increase and the probability to measure the other states decrease. These two operators, oracle and diffusion operators, are called as the grover operator. We can do quantum computer simulation on the IBM Q Exxperience website. Here I tried 2 qubit system simulation. Here I tried 2 qubit system simulation. (click) We can check that we measured 11 state after after the operation. We did it! however there is a small change between between the 2 qubits case and the 3 qubits case. This is the 3 qubit system circuit of the grover’s algorithm. we can check that the Oracle's and the are being repeated 2 times. Let’s see why we need this reapitiation. 3 qubit also starts with generating a superposition of the all possible solutions. possible solutions after it passes through the Oracle design of the 1 1 1 changes to the negative sign. With diffusion operator, the amplitude of the 111 state is increased. However, still there are chance to get wrong state in this situation. It would become an error. To get more accurate measurement data, we should repeat the operation once again. Then, we can get 111 state 94% if we measure the qubit. If the number of possible data increase, we should do more repetition to get accurate data. With the N data, we should repeat the groover operator pi square root N over 4 times. However, it is still smaller than the classical computers. With the large N, quantum computer will show superior performance than the classical computers. according to Grover algorithm, We can reverse only the desired data, hen increase accuracy through amplification to obtain the database we seek. It looks perfect, but errors are inevitable. Because probability, which is the principle of quantum computer, is used, errors can occur with low low probability. In actual quantum computing, one more correction is made to reduce these errors. However, it is hard to say that the error is 100 percent gone because the probability is still inevitable. And there is a Controlled gate in a quantum computer. This gate is a gate where one qubit affects another, which is mechanically possible if there are fewer qubits, but the higher number of qubits, the harder it is to control them, so it is technically impossible at present. For doing quantum computing, the atoms must be held stationary, which must maintain a low temperature of 0.4 mK and a high magnetic field. Now that this technology has become a reality, but if we're going to realize qubits with other principles, such as magnetic moment in atomic nucleus, the process of fixing atoms needs to be more accurate. What kind of effort does it take to solve? First, we need more precise algorithms to solve this. Second, we must develop not only the Grover algorithm we dealt with but also other algorithms that are effective in various situations. Finally, the development of hardware technology is required for the stability of quantum computers. We've been looking at quantum computers and Grover algorithms. If you want to learn more about quantum computer algorithms, please visit the IBM Q experience site to get information. It will be easier to understand because you can simulate a quantum computer. Also, if you want additional information on the overall quantum computer, you should visit Ki-bum Kang, a professor of Material Science Engineering at KAIST. 