 In this video I will explain full and partial measurements of qubits. Full measurement implies that given a n-qubit register you measure all the n-qubits. Whereas, partial measurement implies that given an n-qubit register you measure a subset of those n-qubits. There are two key rules that we have to remember while measuring qubits. #1) If the qubits being measured are in superposition then after the measurement they switch to pure state. rule #2) you must make sure that the new resultant state fulfills the normalization constraint. I will explain full and partial measurement using some examples. In Example-1 I have given a 2-qubit register. Ket psi equals to 1/2 times ket 0 0 minus i/2 times ket 1 0 plus 1 over square root of 2 times ket 1 1 and I have to find out all the possible measurements of this register. All the possible full measurements of this register and what is the probability of each measurement and what is the resultant state after the measurement of the register. In case of full measurement we can measure only the qubits bits whose amplitude is not equal to zero. So we can either measure 0 0 or 1 0 or 1 1. So we can only measure these three possibilities. So we can measure 0 0 that means the first qubit is 0 and second qubit is also 0. We can measure a 1 0 which implies that the first qubit is 1 second is 0 or we can measure 1 1. Probability of each measurement is squre of its amplitude. So in this case probability will be 1/2 whole square. That is equal to 1/4 which is 0.25. Similarly, in this case our probability will be minus iota over 2 whole square. This is equal to first we conjugate this number which is iota over 2 times minus iota over 2 which is once again equals to 1/4 is equal to 0.25. The last one is the measurement of 1 1. In this case the probability will be a square of amplitude 1 over square root of 2 whole square equals to 1/2 and that is equal to 0.5. Now what will be the resultant state of each measurement? According to the rule #1 if I measure a register and that register was in superposition then after measurement it switches its state to pure state. so Ket psi will be now in pure state of 0 0. Any future measurement will give us the same result 0 0 In the beginning measuring 0 0 has probability of 0.25 but once we measure this register then in future we will always get 0 0. Similarly, in the second case the register will be in pure state of 1 0 and in the last case register will be in the pure state of 1 1. We can check that all of those two qubits are normalized so both of those rules are upheld. Now let's look at an example for partial measurement. In the second example, I have given the same two qubit register and i have to partially measure that register. Partial measurement implies that either I will be measuring only the first bit while qubit keeping the second qubit untouched or I will measuring the second qubit while keeping the first qubit untouched. Assume that I have measured the first qubit and I have obtained the measurement of 1. So first qubit is equal to 1. Probability that the first qubit equals to 1 can be found using the simple probability rule which states that probability of A union B equals to probability of A plus probability of B minus probability of A intersection B. However, A intersection B will be equal to 0 if A and B are disjoint so we don't have to subtract anything in this case. Probability that first qubit equals to 1 will be the sum of probabilities that first qubit is 1 and second qubit is 0 and first qubit is 1 and second qubit is also 1 Our answer will be 1 by 4 plus 1 over 2 equals to 3 by 4. The resultant state will depend upon both of those rules. Rule #1 says that after measurement qubit changes from superposition to pure state. Because we have measured the first qubit and the measurement reveals us that first qubit is 1 so that means the resultant state will be a combination of these two possibilities. In these possibilities first qubit is equal to 1. We also have to check the second rule. The second rule says that whatever your answer is, it it must upheld the normalization constraint that means that the resultant vector must be normalized. But this is not normalized because if we check that minus iota over 2 whole square plus 1 over square root 2 whole square is not equal to 1. To make it normalize we have to divide this vector by its norm. The norm will be square root of the probability. Maybe i can simplify it here. This will become minus iota over under root 3 and this will become under root 2 over under root 3. That is our answer! We have fulfilled both of those rules, i.e. the first qubit is in pure state of 1 and the resultant vector is also normalized. Similarly, we can measure second qubit and measurement result of the second qubit could be 0 We measure second qubit and the result of measurement is 0. Probability of this event is sum of probabilities that register in state of 0 0 or register in state of 1 0. So the answer will be 1 over 2 whole square plus minus iota over 2 whole square that is equal to 1 over 4 plus 1 over 4 equal to 1 over 2. The resultant state will be once again combination of both of these possibilities where the second qubit is equal to 0. Because the second qubit is 0 here and here so the resultant state will be ket psi equals to one over two ket 0 0 minus iota over 2 ket 1 0. We have to once again normalize the resultant state because it is not normal yet. We have to divide it by its norm which we know is square root of the probability. We can find the norm but it will always be square-root of the probability. So it will be 1 over square root of 2. If we simplify it we will get result. We get square root here and we will get square root here. That's the final state of the register after measurement. This is the valid state because  second qubit is in pure state of 0 so the rule #1 is fulfilled and also the overall register is normalized so rule #2 is also fulfilled. Let's do another example. In this example I've given a four qubit register. I'm asked what is the probability and resultant state if the first and the fourth qubits are equal to 0. So let's find the solution. We know that the first and the fourth qubit are equal to zero in this combination, in this combination, and in this combination. That means we can find a probability by adding the probability of each of these combination. We can find probability by using this law of probabilities the probability of A union B union C is equal to probability of A plus probability of B plus probability of C, given that A, B and C are disjoint. In this case our probability will be equals to 1 over square root of 5 whole square plus minus square root of 2 over 5 whole square plus 1 over square root of 5 whole square. Our answer will be 4 over 5. Similarly, the resultant state will be combination of these three possibilities. The resultant state will be ket psi equal to 1 over square root of 5 times ket 0 0 0 0 minus square root of 2 over 5 times ket 0 1 0 0 plus 1 over square root of 5 ket 0 1 1 0 but according to the second rule, qubits should always be normalized and this is not normalized yet. We have to divide these qubits by their norm. The norm will be square root of the probability. So the norm going to be equal to 2 over square root of 5. We can simplify this and after simplification we will get a result of 1 over 2 time ket 0 0 0 0 minus 1 over square root of 2 times ket 0 1 0 0 plus 1 over 2 times ket 0 1 1 0 That's our final result. This result is correct because the first and the fourth qubit are in pure state of 0 0 and also and the register is normalized. That's it for today see you next time. 