 Computer technology is already pretty sophisticated. Can you imagine that the tiniest chip will fit into this grain of rice one hundred times? And now there’s the quantum computer and not only can it calculate using 0s and 1s like a standard computer. It can even operate both ways! So I’d like to know: is that something that the bank could utilise going forward? I know someone who can tell me more about this and because we're unable to travel at the moment, I’ll take my "Digital me" and simply send it to him. I’ve heard you’re the specialist – the great expert in the field of quantum computers. May I ask: are you a nerd? Yes, you could say that. I really enjoy it; it’s what I studied. I studied physics and now I can also explore the topic in my own firm. That’s good! So I’ve come to the right person! My question is: where is the difference between standard computers or supercomputers and a quantum computer? Quantum computers use completely different hardware, so-called qubits. These qubits adhere to the rules of quantum mechanics. And they enable you to solve problems in a completely different way. Do you have a concrete example for me? Yes, one example could be: you want to visit different branches of Deutsche Bank and you want to find the quickest route. I’ve got the four branches here. They’re all in Munich. It can’t take that long. I’ll enter that and then I’ll look for the locations. OK, Leopoldstrasse 53. I’m getting 2 hours, 11 minutes and 35.7 kilometres. Great, that sounds fast. You’ve probably now tried out several options one after the other and then found the best one. Now I’ll enter the same branches into my simulation. Let’s see what happens. What we’re doing here is simulating what a quantum computer does. In a quantum computer you can prepare one "superposition" out of all the options. I have all my answers in the system at the same time. Not one after another and you can see the probability of all the possible answers. Then I represent my distances as energy in the system and the system finds the lowest energy. This means the best solution for my problem. And you see: ultimately only one solution remains. And that’s the best solution. So what did the quantum computer calculate in our case? In our case, the quantum computer found a time of just under two hours. Wow! That’s better than I managed. And how long did the computer take, Alessandro? The simulation took a few seconds, but only because I wanted to show you all the dynamics. A real quantum computer would probably only take a millisecond. I was pretty optimistic to start with, but my seven minutes is just no competition! With ten branches you have more than a million possibilities; with 15 it’s 1,000 billion! At some point, a traditional computer just takes too long to calculate all the possibilities one after the other and compare them. With a quantum computer you can compare all these possibilities at once. How could the financial industry make use of a quantum computer? I can imagine applications that, say, predict financial crises. That would be one possible use. That sounds interesting! So that means that a quantum computer would be able to send me signals or say “watch out, things are getting dangerous”? Yes, it would be possible to simulate and calculate how financial networks evolve and then watch what happens if my commodities or my assets lose value. What are the consequences for banks, sovereigns and investors? It’s possible to calculate different scenarios. And maybe predict a crisis with greater accuracy. 