 - All right, let's start. Thank you so much for joining us for this exciting event. My name is Florian Carle. I'm the manager of the Yale Quantum Institute and I'm delighted to see so many of you attendees non-technical talk presented to you. So we usually would have you over on the Yale campus for this talk, but for the time being all we can offer for you is the seminar remotely, but we are delighted to have A. Douglas Stone to give us this talk on quantum science and what led humanity to be on the verge of harvesting quantum computer power. So A. Douglas Stone is the YQI deputy director and also the Carl A. Morse Professor of Applied Physics and professor of physics. He's the author of "Einstein and the Quantum: "The Quest of the Valiant Swabian", and you'll see that some of the content from the book will be on the presentation tonight. Professor Stone presented the stork in Aspen in front of industry and government agency leaders in the last winter at the quantum summits, and we are very pleased to have the talk broadcast for all of you tonight and for the public. For all 145 of you right now welcome to the seminar. The mandate of the Yale Quantum Institute is really to bring a quantum science and all our research and work to you and to the public and explain to you what we're doing and how this research done by so many students, postdocs, and researcher in our labs will benefit the general public in the round. Before we start this talk, I would like to give you a few technical comments. You will be able to split the screen between the slides and the video and you can adjust the size of the speaker so you can see our Douglas Stone talk in a second, and you can also type all your questions in the Q&A feature at the bottom of the screen. We will take your question either during the talk, if the pertinence right now, or we'll do a Q&A session afterwards. So feel free to type your question in the back. The talk will be recorded and hosted on the Yale Quantum Institute website for replay, and without further further ado, I would like to really welcome Douglas Stone and have a delightful evening. - Hello, guests in cyberspace. I'm so pleased you could come and hear this talk which as Florian said is supposed to be non technical. So for the technical people who've been nice enough to tune in and see me I'll do the best I can, just forgive me for oversimplifying things and I'm very pleased that I can do this as a webinar, where I get to speak in a room. Unfortunately it's a room with one very socially distant person here, Florian, and it's much nicer than hunching over my screen for the Zoom conference, but I don't get to see your smiling faces. I don't get to hear your laughter, which I hope will be copious, and I also don't get to see you're bored or confused looks. So I'm just going to think positively about what's going on out there and go forward. So I wrote a whole book about Einstein in quantum mechanics and in the preface of that book I said, "I chose deliberately to be quite brief on questions "such as fundamental indeterminism "in nature and entanglement", which are very much actually the topic of today's talk, and the question is why? And the answer is pretty simple. Quantum mechanics is not rocket science. This stuff is really hard. It's really hard. It's really, really, really hard. So it's not something that I wanted to impose on the unsuspecting public unless it was really necessary. So I try to avoid many of the most challenging topics, which now unfortunately or fortunately are central to this talk. So this is base what the less of you may feel, but hopefully we'll avoid this. So why now? Well, the reason now that I'm venturing into this difficult territory is that I show here a map where the red dots illustrate new funding for quantum science adding up to about $15 billion, and I should say that there's been lots of quantum science since 1925 going on, but this is a new type of quantum science which we call quantum information science, and $15 billion of new funding put in perspective the full budget of NSF in a year is 7 billion. So it's quite a bit and you see that the big red dot there is China, and China has made it clear that they're hoping to dominate the modern communications and information processing technology sector, and so certainly they are putting a lot of effort into this as is the United States and other places. Here's a list of corporate involvement in the United States of America with quantum science. You see these four web tech giants, Amazon, Google, Microsoft, IBM, as well as other well-known names and a number of startups. I wanna make a shout out to Quantum Circuits Inc. which is the local startup in New Haven, which was founded by Robert Schoelkopf and others, and also abroad there this bunch of famous tech names that you can see here including Alibaba, which is almost a trillion dollar web company in China, and last about a year and a half ago, Jack Hidary, who was head of AI and Quantum Information Science at Google X came in or gave a talk, and when asked said that quantum information science will be at least as important as AI in the tech industry, artificial intelligence that is, and here's a list of new quantum centers all founded in the last five to 10 years. Many of our peers appear on this list, including the Yale Quantum Institute, of course, and there are major international centers which I haven't listed all of, and most recently DOE has set up a few quantum hubs around the nation and Yale is the co-lead of one in this part of the country with all these other partner institutions listed below for really focusing on the kinds of technology we do here at Yale, and this has, yeah, it's $120 million in funding over five years and possibly renewable. Now, I wanna start by saying there was no field of quantum information science when I got my PhD, and to illustrate how long ago that was, this is a picture of me on the MIT Physics Department soccer team, that skinny guy with lots of hair. So you can see that that was a while ago. The things that were being studied then were the Higgs boson, gravitational waves, dark matter, and string theory. So all these cutting edge things you've heard about, even more recently, in physics, were actually already targets for big chunks of the physics community and astrophysics, et cetera then, but not quantum information science. Quantum information science didn't exist, but the precursors were people who worried about the philosophical foundations of quantum mechanics, that worried about the measurement problem in quantum mechanics and a little bit about irreversibility in the direction of time, very much fringe activities that weren't considered real physics. Okay, well, now, of course, this is accepted as maybe the most exciting frontier area in physical science and with the connection to computer science and mathematics, and it just came out of a left field in a way that I'm going to describe. So you can call that scientific revolution or transformative, but I think it's the most surprising and exciting development in physics in the last 50 years, in my humble opinion. So I felt we should try to engage the public about this quantum information science because it is so novel and it could be quite important as well. So the outline of my talk is I'm gonna begin with a historical context. Of course, this is sort of my thing. Quantum mechanics was invented as the theory of the microscopic world, atoms, molecules nuclei, the origin of light and heat, and it was developed between about 1900 and 1930, and there were conceptual challenges with the new quantum theory related to the idea of superposition and entanglement of the effect of measurement and a changing paradigm for what existed in nature, but in the maturing period between 1930 and 1980 there was great success, but constraints on what we could actually predict from quantum theory that I'm gonna talk about, and it was only in 1980s that this radical fringe movement formed that began to study quantum information science, and then in the 1990s there was a Eureka moment, which created this worldwide race to perfect the technology and specifically to build a quantum computer, which I'm gonna talk about, and then since 2000, there's been an effort to actually make this a reality. The early work was all theoretical work, mainly theoretical work, and actually the quantum computer is a new kind of machine unlike any of the others we built, even using quantum mechanics to build them, and I'm gonna explain why it's such a new kind of machine, and then finally, I'll briefly talk about the social and economic impact of quantum information science and technology. So, in 1900, the exploration of inner space began. Through the 19th Century physicists and chemists had hypothesized that they were smallest constituents of matter, atoms and molecules and were able to explain the property of gases and some of the properties of heat and the flow of heat using this point of view, and during that period the working assumption was that the same laws of physics, of Newtonian physics and the electromagnetism of Maxwell and Faraday would apply also to these atoms possibly with new forces that we would discover and that turned out not at all to be the case. So, and this word quantum arose and that's the first question one asks. Why is it called quantum mechanics? And it was introduced by Max Planck in 1900 and he was trying to explain the vibrations of molecules, which both act as a microscopic source of heat and also as a source of thermal radiation, and he was trying to explain the observations of this thermal radiation and he was able to explain that only by assuming that the vibrational energy was quantized and the smallest unit epsilon, we physicist are contractually required to use Greek letters here to make it sound more fancy. So epsilon is the smallest unit of energy. Nu is the frequency of the vibration, and h has this new constant that Planck discovered called Planck constant, and because of this quantization this vibrating molecule was assumed to only be able to take certain energies equal to an integer number times h nu, and this is may not immediately strike you as being totally crazy, but it is totally crazy in a certain sense. So the macroscopic analog of this simple oscillator would be a pendulum, right? And when the pendulum is just facing down, let's say it has its minimum energy, just potential energy, no kinetic energy, and then when I displace it and let it move it gets kinetic energy along with the potential energy, and the more I displace it the more kinetic energy it's going to get. So it looks like the energy that I can give to this oscillator is related to the continuity of space and must be continuous 'cause it seems like I could display by any amount, but the implication of Planck's hypothesis was that that's not the case that actually only certain magnitudes or amplitudes of vibration were allowed, something totally outside of Newtonian physics. Now, the young Einstein showed up and he contributed to this. Planck had not embraced his hypothesis as a new law of physics that would change mechanics, but Einstein very much did and in 1907 he wrote the following words, for although one has thought before that the motion of molecules obeys the same laws that hold for the motion of bodies in our world of sense perception, we must now assume that the energy of elementary structures can only assume the values zero, h nu, two h nu, et cetera. Okay, now, related to this he had introduced... So this was, as I said, a radical violation of Newtonian mechanics and it hints at a coming revolution which Einstein was embracing, and in fact, in 1905, earlier he had proposed thinking about Planck's work that actually that light itself could have a particulate behavior and that could be thought of as consisting of little particles each with energy h nu, which we now call the photon. So, and that introduced this strange idea that light could at once be a wave and a particle because light interferes with itself and we had a theory of light waves, not of light particles. So, Einstein eventually embraced the idea that there was going to be a new theory with wave-particle duality, which is indeed what happens. Now, one of the interesting things is that quantization appears somewhat naturally for waves when they're confined, okay? So for example if I tie a string at two points and I vibrate it, then all of its vibrations can be reduced to certain quantize vibrations with a fundamental half wavelength and then the next overtone with a full wavelength and then three halves and so on and this is the harmonic series that a lot of people know in music, and there's a natural quantization. You cannot have frequencies in between these allowed harmonics. So if there was wave-particle duality maybe that could lead to quantization. Now actually, Einstein focused his research mainly on quantum theory, not in relativity between 1907 and 1911, and by the end of 1910 he gave up and he wrote, the riddle of radiation will not yield. So, but just at that time actually, all the other people who had not quite recognized the looming crisis in physics they realized there was a crisis. There was this famous first Solvay Conference in November 1911 on the topic of radiation and quanta, and there you see, Mr. Solvay, this wealthy industrialist who paid for this, not unlike events now at the Aspen Institute, et cetara, and there's Einstein, but actually he was very disappointed because he'd already run into a brick wall and he wrote to his friend De Calabaso that the conference was like the Lamentations on the ruins of Jerusalem. I did not find it very stimulating because I did not hear anything that I did not already know. So the next person then to really make progress was Niels Bohr, who actually found out about the Solvay Conference from Rutherford and he introduced this model of an atom, where again you had quantization, but this was quantization in terms of different orbits. Now, it was known by that time that the atom consisted of a nucleus which was positively charged, and negative electrons, and you could think of them orbiting in a kind of solar system model, but of course, in classical physics, the orbits could have any radius, but or proposed with some justification, some argument, not completely rigorous, that only certain orbits would be allowed and the only thing that could happen is that an electron could jump between these orbits emitting energy h nu in the form of light, and the interesting thing is he could calculate these energy levels and they were not equally spaced like this harmonic oscillator that we were just talking about and so this spacing of the energy levels depends a little bit on the nature of the forces involved and the equals h nu was just true for harmonic oscillator and then we knew how to calculate the energy levels of atoms. Okay, and because you have different spacings, then that means different frequencies of light can be emitted from the atom, but they're discrete frequencies, but this orbit picture turned out to be wrong. It took 13 more years to really come up with a more quantitative theory, which is essentially the modern theory. This was done mainly by Heisenberg and Erwin Schrodinger, and they replace this orbit picture with the picture of clouds of probability. There was this idea that a state for an atom would be not in orbit and that the electron actually could be in some sort of cloudy region with a particular kind of variation of the cloud depending on how much energy it had. It's related to this thing called a wave function, we'll be talking about a little bit, and in this case the position of the electron in the wave function is uncertain. You'll find it in different places when you measure for the same state, but if you measure the energy you'll always get the quantized energy, and in this talk and for what we're gonna do in quantum information today, I'm gonna mostly focus on variables that are discrete, like the energy here that can only take quantized values. Okay, so we're moving right along with quantum mechanics. So one thing that followed from the theory that was invented in '25, '26 '27, was that when an atom was emitting light through this quantum jump, that it could actually be in between the two states, in a state called a superposition which we write this way. So psi is this wave function and it's proportional to an equal sum of the two states, and I'm being very vague mathematically here, but the meaning of the superposition, at least partially, was that when you measure the energy of the electron in a superposition, 50% of the time you would get the energy level E2 and 50% of the time you get the energy level E3. Okay, and you also can have unequal superpositions, like you could have something with a half there and that would correspond to finding E2 75% of the time and E3 25% of the time. Okay, so so far maybe that's not too upsetting. Now, to talk about this in an information theoretic way, we're gonna replace the two levels by a zero and a one, as in the states of a bit, which we're gonna call a quantum bit, but this is a bit that can be in this superposition state and while every quantum system has usually many energy levels or an infinite number, in actual using it for information processing we're often gonna focus on just two levels or a few, and so we talk about this quantum bit as if there were only two levels until the other levels start to come in and then we'll move away from that, but mainly, we're gonna talk about quantum bits. Now, measuring a quantum bit in superposition, is this just the same as measuring a coin that's been tossed inside a box, right? So let's say it's a 50, 50 superposition. So I toss a coin inside a box, I don't look at it yet and then when I open it up I have a 50% chance of getting tails, or I do it again, 50% chance of having heads. So, and then an unequal superposition could be just like a biased coin, which is somehow loaded to come up more like heads and tails, and more heads than tails. So where's the big philosophical problem with a bias coin? I mean, it doesn't sound like a total showstopper. Okay, well, here's where it starts to get more challenging. Okay, so I do this, I don't look at it, and then same thing, I do it again. I get some value of heads or tails, but when I finally opened the box I'm able to assume that before I opened the box it had the value before I actually could see it, quote unquote, measure. So the inability to predict heads or tails when I toss a coin is a matter of ignorance. I don't know what it is if I don't look at it, but it was that before I mentioned. So measurement just reveals the state that was there before, and you can't say this for quantum bits. It really is not true and so far as physics can talk about truth. So that's where things start to get complicated and now I'll try to explain why. Okay, so the usual coin would be 50, 50, we're gonna call it zero in one state, but you know if it's biased I could have a totally loaded coin that's completely always comes up head or always comes up tails, or I could have anything in between, say, comes up two thirds of tails and one thirds head. There's nothing surprising, and all the different kinds of probabilistic behavior are on this line here, but qubit states are not like that, okay? This equal superposition I showed you is like the 50, 50 unbiased coin, but I can write a different quantum state where I put a minus sign in front of the state one and that'll also be 50, 50 when I measure it, and then there are nastier ones that I'm not showing you that involve complex numbers and in fact, there's actually an infinity of unbiased coins and the states of a quantum bit can't be described by a line, they have to be described by this sphere where always having one, the totally biased coin, is the two poles of the sphere, okay? And the two states I just wrote here would be on the equator of the sphere, and the equator is a circle, and so there's a continuum of unbiased states all of which are distinct, and then when you measure the energy, they could still gonna be 50, 50, okay. After you measure the energy, if you get one, it's gonna stay one till something else that manipulates it. So the measurement has changed, the state is now completely one even though it started out in that state, that was 50, 50, one and zero, okay. So what makes all these different unbiased states on the equator of this sphere different states? Well, you can tell they're different when you measure something else, which is not the energy, and to keep life simple we're gonna assume you measure something, which is discrete and could just be zero or one, but a different meaning of zero or one. Some other physical property like momentum or something else, angular momentum. Now, these states on the equator won't be unbiased when you measure this other property, and the bias will not be the same. So they're not the same state and they don't map on to just a biased or unbiased coin. Okay, so do we really have to accept that the state is uncertain until we measure it? Could we still interpret our observations as learning what was already there? Which is certainly was from the very beginning the question that people ask because they wanted to think of physics as objective reality independent measurement. So the answer is no, we can't do that. It seems like in quantum mechanics measurement is affecting the system and making it choose properties. The properties are not independent of the actual measurement, and Bohr respond to this by saying get over it. This is known more formally as the Copenhagen interpretation or complementarity, and he just says your choice of measurements determines what you can know and there are questions that don't have an answer, you shouldn't expect them to have answers. Later it was actually proved that any new theory which assumes properties of quantum bits, they're independent of how they're measured, could never agree with all the predictions of quantum mechanics, and Bohr was, I'm fine with that. Okay, but not Einstein. So Einstein, famously in 1935, wrote this paper with two young colleagues at the Institute for Advanced Studies, called can quantum mechanical description of physical reality be considered complete? And in it he did a thought experiment, he liked those, in which he tried to argue that it can't be considered complete, and the reason that he argued, his argument was related to the concept of entanglement. So entanglement is again, I have two qubits, I don't know what their state is, okay? But I put them in a state that has the property that if I get the two of them, and they're in a joint state, and when I measure them, if I know what one is, I immediately find the other one has to be the same. So their values are called entangle. Now each coin separately is unbiased, it just comes up 50, 50 as entails, but if I measure the second one, actually it has to be the same. These are these magic coins, also known as EPR pairs, after Einstein hold on all scheme rose. So they look like this in our notation. So you either get one and one or zero and zero, and you never get zero one or one zero. So each coin individually carries no information because it's not biased, but the correlation does, the entanglement does carry information, because something about this. In this state, zero one will never happen and one zero will never happen. So you have one bit of information, but it's shared between the two bits. Now the thing that makes it even worse and that Einstein particularly objected to is the following. Suppose I have these entangled state, and I take one of the bits and I let it fly off a great distance like a light year, or something like that and then I do the measurement here and I find heads. Well, since you have to get heads on the other bit that's far away and if I measured it first it would have been random. So it sort of feels like this measurement here affected the measurement over there. Now it turns out you can prove you can't send information with this correlations. So you can't go faster than light, but still it looks very impossible or very wrong, and so how can a measurement here affect the result there? Einstein said it can't. Sometimes he would make fun of the whole idea of measurement affecting reality by saying, do you really think the moon isn't there when you aren't looking at it? And he thought there must be a better theory where only things near each coin determine what their value is, and somehow you can still explain the correlation that exists. So this brilliant young theorist back in '64, John Bell, actually took up Einstein's challenge. He said could there be a better theory? Is that even allowed? And he figured out the following theorem, okay. So in his theory, he calculated the correlation between two measurements of cubits, I'm not gonna go into exactly what kind of measurement that would be, but it's similar to checking which state it's in, but it's a little more complicated, and he calculated how this correlation would vary with a certain angle that you vary in the measurement, and you see this blue curve I'm calling quantum and that's the prediction that quantum mechanics gives for this measurement and the red curve Bell established is the largest values you can have for any theory that Einstein would like, that only depends on the local variables, and so he said, "Just go up and look at this "and see if we violate this inequality. "If we don't, then quantum mechanics is wrong, "and Einstein friendly theory could be there, "could be found, "but if we do violate this inequality, "then we could never explain it with a theory "that Einstein would accept." And so that's the difference between these two at this particular angle, this difference. If we see this Einstein is wrong, if we see oops, if we see the red then maybe Einstein was right, and this young French physicist Alain Aspect in '82 did a very good experiment to test this. There were some earlier ones, but this certainly was one of the very best first early ones, and there's his curve and you see it looks like the blue curve and it violates what are called Bell's inequalities. So that means we'll never be able to get the kind of theory that Einstein was looking for and we really have to accept these weird properties of entanglement, and really many, many experiments have been done and this kind of thing has been verified in different forums over and over again. So the consensus is that the world is really this weird. Yes, the world is really that. Okay, now Bell really was kind of upset by this and he wrote Einstein was the rational man. The reasonable thing that he thought just doesn't work. So he was hoping that maybe you'd find a problem with the quantum prediction, but we didn't. Okay, so to summarize we've learned quantum mechanics, right? Sort of. Quantum systems can live in an uncertain state called a superposition. Two level system of these then it's considered a qubit. That's a certain kind of superposition, which we've talked about a lot, and any quantum system when you measure it, it decides what state it's in, it collapses into a state with a certain value of the thing you measured. The probability of each state is determined by what the initial superposition was. So it won't always be the same thing. It's contradictory to assume it always was in the state you measured before you measured it. That's the toughest part of it uncertainly. So this physicist Alexey Korotkov said, in quantum mechanics you don't see what you get, you get what you see. So finally, qubits can be in this perfectly correlated state while still behaving individually random, and this is an example of entanglement, okay, and the state looks like that or in coins it looks like that. All right, so we're good here, right? We've mastered quantum mechanics. - [Florian] We've done it though. - We've done it. Okay, test tomorrow. Come to this link. So we've covered most of the hard stuff, okay? And now we're gonna understand quantum computing quantum information a little bit. So much later in 1927 there was the fifth Solvay Conference and Einstein was there looking like the more familiar Einstein. There's Bohr, there's Heisenberg, there's Schrodinger, and then there's this guy whose name was Paul Dirac. Paul Dirac actually right after Heisenberg, kind of put quantum mechanics in an extremely elegant form and predicted new things that other people hadn't figured out and was generally considered to be a genius, and he said in 1929 that the underlying physical laws necessary for the mathematical theory of a large part of physics and the whole of chemistry are thus completely known. This is a famous quote. The rest of the quote is often not given, and he says, the difficulty is only that the exact application of these laws leads to equations much too complicated to be soluble. It therefore becomes desirable that practical methods of applying quantum mechanics should be developed. Well, for the next 50 years, quantum mechanics turned out to be the theory of everything and nobody really wanted to worry about these foundational issues and philosophical issues and there was this acronym SUAC, shut up and calculate, which was enforced when I started my PhD, for sure. So you weren't supposed to worry about these things if you were serious about physics. Now, but the dirty secret was we know the equations that would describe many complex systems of atoms and molecules or even subatomic particles, but we often can't solve them, okay? And this is due to something that I call the the exponential wall. Now, because of the pandemic people are familiar with exponential curve. Like you infect one person and each person there infects one more so two turns into four into six, et cetera, et cetera, and it grows very quickly. So it turns out that the equations of quantum mechanics are sort of like that, in the sense that as the system gets more complicated, first, with the simple system we can actually solve it with pencil and paper and give exams to undergraduates expecting them to be able to do that, and then as it gets more complicated we have two atoms or three then we turn to a computer, but if we really try to solve them exactly for, I don't know, any medium-sized molecule, and we we do that using a ordinary digital computer there is a brute force way to solve these equations. They're called partial differential equations, but we find that as the number of atoms and molecules increase, the time that it's gonna take our computer to crank out the answer is growing and pretty soon we're estimating that's gonna take the history of mankind and then the history of the earth and so on, and so there's no way to directly solve those that we know prior to quantum computing in human timescales. Now, in many cases we found approximate methods that avoid the exponential wall and seem to agree with nature. So we've made a lot of progress, but in the cases where we don't have a good approximation we can't predict anything. So that is the dirty secret and this really describes many of the frontier problems in theoretical physics that we're trying to get around the exponential wall. Okay, now, getting back now to quantum information, okay? One of the few famous physicist who was involved with the quantum information fringe was Richard Feynman, I hope many of you have heard of him, and in 1981, actually, I was there, but I didn't know about this conference, there was a conference on the physics of computing and Feynman came and gave the keynote address such as it was, and he said, okay, now that I'm blocking here actually the quote, but you can see it. Can you simulate nature with a new kind of quantum computer, it's not a Turing machine, it's a machine of a different kind with quantum computer elements. Meaning the hardware itself was in a quantum state of superposition, or something like that, and so he says it's not a Turing machine, it's not what we now would call a classical computer. Well, nature isn't classical, dammit, and if you want a simulation of nature you better make it quantum, and by golly it's a wonderful problem because it doesn't look too easy. So that's how Feynman talked and he realized that maybe this would get around the exponential wall, but this seemed like a crazy idea, right? Because we've already told you that quantum bits exists in an uncertain state. I haven't even told you how fragile they are, but even if you have them, if they're in a superposition, they may randomly fall into one state or another. So you can't even reliably store your bits, why would you want something that could be a zero or a one? So forget about processing in some predictable way to solve a problem. You are introducing noise and loss of information at the basic hardware level, how could that be good? But as these people thought, what if quantum weirdness is a feature and not a bug? And the basic idea of quantum simulation is that if the components of your computer can keep their quantumness and are hooked up and are programmed so that they have the same kinds of interactions and forces as the atoms in a molecule, say that you're trying to calculate the energy levels of, then just by running your computer there will be a way to extract the energy level that you can't actually do with a normal computer, just as this is just a quantum analog simulator. Now, I must hasten to say that none of our computers before ever had quantum components in this sense. Okay, so if you did this it turns out there would be no exponential wall and you would be able to treat much larger quantum systems predictably. So throughout the '80s, scientists explored the properties of quantum information and interesting things were found. You can find the history there on Wikipedia, but really the big moment was in 1994. So 1994 Peter Shor, who was an applied mathematician and computer scientist at Bell Labs at the time, he proved he was looking at this, and quantum calculations aren't the only exponential walls. So as an applied mathematician in computer science, he was interested in other exponential walls and he had heard about this idea of a potential quantum computer, and he showed that a quantum computer could solve a computer science math problem with an exponential wall, which was believed to have an exponential wall. So in other words, it wasn't just a way to simulate quantum mechanics and do physical science calculations, it was also a way to solve problems in Applied Math that could apply to finance to cryptography, et cetera, where exponential walls are everywhere in networking and communications and so on. Here's an example of a non physics exponential wall that probably you can relate to. This is somebody's estimate of the days of computer time it would take to crack a password of different length in terms of letters. So your desktop could do up to five letters and then it's gonna start taking much longer than you're willing to wait. A graphical processing unit, which is very fast for gaming, it can go up to six, and then an Amazon cloud cluster can go up to seven or eight, and it's very clear that if you have 20 letters in your password, you're never gonna get there. So this is nothing to do with physics. These are problems in information science or in cryptography, rather, that we want to know the answers to, okay. So Shor showed that if you had an ideal quantum computer with perfect cubits and other things perfect, you could break the standard encryption technology which underlies web browsing and e-commerce on the internet. So this was a moment that shocked the world. Okay, so what am I talking about? So cryptographers like exponential walls, particularly if they're one-way walls, that is that one way it's very hard to find the answer, but the other way when you decrypt it's easy, and factoring large numbers into their primes is a convenient one-way wall. Mathematicians and computer scientists knew this and it's used in something called RSA encryption, which is used to send your credit card on the internet. Just to remind you what a prime number is and a little bit about them. So 20 is one times two times two times five, a prime number, well, okay. 21 is shown there, 22 is shown there, and a prime number is... I didn't show itself as a factor, I should have. A prime number has no factors, but one and itself, and I'm sure most of you do remember that, I hope. Now you might think, well, we kind of just look at this and we figure this out, it's true. We could do that for not too big numbers, but if they're really big numbers then it's not easy to do. So trying factoring this guy. So this is not a randomly chosen number that I typed. This is RSA-2048. It's a 617 decimal digit, 2,048 bits integer, which is semi prime, I'll explain that. So it's not a prime number and it's one of the largest longest numbers that they use in this encryption scheme that I'm gonna tell you about and they offered many years ago $200,000 to factorize this number, and as Wikipedia says it may not be factorizable for many years to come. So RSA-2048 has only two prime factors other than one and itself. So p times q multiplied together gives us this long number, that it's very hard to figure out p and q. Okay, and actually still no person or computer system on earth can find that the factors p and q of this number except the people that constructed it, who hopefully are revealing it. So you could offer somebody billions of dollars. This is an unsolvable problem, we believe, at the moment with the finest techniques we know. So the team at RSA found p and q, likely to find large primes, and then they multiply them together, and there is a way to find large primes. So multiplying is easy, right? That you could even probably do although we could probably make a mistake with this long number, but a computer can do that easily, but figuring out the prime factors is believed to be exponentially hard and have an exponential wall. So there's a one-way wall, it's easy to compute and knowing p and q it's quote unquote impossible, p and q, knowing it, okay, unless you have a quantum computer post Shor, okay. Now the way this is often illustrated is we're going to send a message that we wanna encrypt between Bob and Alice and each of those know the factors of N. I'm not even sure they both have to, but I'm just assuming that. Okay, this is Bob's credit card number. So he sends it by encoding it in a message of bits that depend on N, okay? And he sends that message over and then knowing the factors of N Alice can decode it and get a Bob's credit card number, and if Eve is listening, she's an eavesdropper, or has corrupted the security of the line, she will get an N but she won't be able to find the prime factors and she won't be able to decode it, and this is literally one of the main ways that the internet allows you to send your credit card securely. So when Shor happened, cryptographer first braced for a quantum revolution and by 2015 the US NSA had revealed its intention to transition to quantum resistant protocols, meaning that we won't use RSA, we'll find some other method that so far we haven't figured out if a quantum computer could break, okay? But we're still using it regularly and we don't have a quantum computer unless something very surprising is out there that could break RSA at the moment, okay. So once the Shor algorithm was invented, the race was on. I mean, intelligence, privacy, e-commerce, finance, I mean, all these things care about being able to crypt and encrypt and decrypt, and so on, and suddenly there was this paradigm shift, quantum uncertainty wasn't always a barrier to learning about nature. Actually, it could be the key to extracting previously inaccessible knowledge, and you had to invent new hardware which would qualitatively change the type of the problem. So before we thought that if a problem was exponentially hard on one type of computer, it would be exponentially harder on any kind of computer, but according to Shor's result that's not true, if you have the new revolutionary quantum hardware this exponentially hard problem could become solvable. Okay, now, it turns out that all quantum speed up derives from superposition and entanglement. So if nature wasn't like this we could never solve these problems, it would forever be outside of reach, and it uses everything Einstein hated about quantum mechanics. So there's quite a historical pioneer irony there, and it's a new kind of machine, never previously attempted in science and technology. So let me try to explain how it could be, in some sense, so much more powerful, although this is a very simplified illustration. So this is a conventional computer, a RAM chip with 100 billion bits on it and each bit has two states. So there are two to the N states that this chip could hold, two to the 100 billion is an insanely large number. In fact, 300, two to the 300 is actually an insanely large number. It's 10 to the 91 states. So if we were to explore all states sequentially at one nanosecond, so we just turned on this chip and started with all zeros and then flipped one and then another, just did this once a nanosecond, okay, it would take greater than the age of the universe, sorry. It would take longer the age of the universe to just do this in a serial classical way, but in a quantum computer would take less than a second. So we start with all zeros in the quantum version and we don't flip one, we actually superposed it. We turn it into an equal superposition of zero and one, which is something we know how to do, okay? And then we do that for the next one and the next one, and eventually when we've done that 300 times we actually have all 10 to the 91 terms in this big sum, all of which are now being partially implemented in this 300 bit quantum register. So in that sense it does something completely impossible classically, but very doable, quantum mechanically, and this would take less than a millisecond actually, on a quantum computer. We think we don't have one yet, but so the quantum computer is the ultimate parallel processor, but it may also be the most difficult technology we've ever tried to build. So why is it quantum computer insanely difficult to build? Okay, classical bit is high or low voltage in a small circuit and the bit can just stay there uncorrupted for years or a magnetic region and a magnetic disk, whatever. The quantum bit is a real artificial atom with quantum levels, okay? So there's a real atom and there's an artificial atom. This is one of the ones pioneered at Yale, where I have a superconducting structure that has energy levels, and can be treated as a kind of artificial atom, okay, but the unprotected qubit, if I just leave it out in the environment it's going to just go away in a nanosecond, okay. It just can't stay in some superposition, and the reason it can't is because being out in the world is in an environment where atoms are bumping into, where light is coming in, radiation is coming in, and it's measuring the qubit and it's making it decide what state it's in, even though humans don't measure it, the environment is measuring it. So that's why quantum information is incredibly fragile. This effect is called decoherence, and that's why we couldn't have a real Schrodinger cat because anything big and living like a cat is interacting with the environment to stay alive and so it not gonna be in a superposition, okay? But so quantum information is like the most fragile kind of information ever invented. Okay, well, that sounds hard, but can't we just shield our qubits from the environment and keep them far apart from each other? I mean, we know how to trap individual atoms, 20, 30 years ago, we can cool things down. Can we just do that? Well, that's not enough, okay? Because you need to interact your qubits to process. For example, you need to create entanglement. So here's my qubit, one that's in state one. Let's say I wanna put it into a superposition. So insert it with some microwaves or laser and I put it into zero one in a controlled way, and I have to bring my next qubit in, that's also in that superposition. No one entangled. So I wanna get rid of the one zero, zero one state, so they have to talk to each other and eventually I'll end up with the entangled state. So I had these interactions that have to go perfectly. Any mistake, I'm not gonna get the right state. So this is so difficult that we think we will need error correction in hardware, which we do have in classical computers. We store one as three ones and then take the majority and so on, but it's much harder to do what possible to do in quantum mechanics. Now the current quantum computers, they're basically two main technologies. The one that was pioneered here at Yale and other places involves the superconducting circuits that you cool down to a hundredth of a degree above absolute zero, and then these artificial atoms are on chips. They're little superconducting regions that are specially designed. This approach was pioneered by my colleagues, Michelle Devoret, Steve Girvin, and Rob Schoelkopf, I wanna shout out to them and this is called a transmon qubit which pretty much all the industrial places are using them. Now the other approach is to use real atoms and this blue thing here is a string of trapped ions, so ionized atoms, which can be manipulated with laser beams and has to be kept in an old dry vacuum. So that's also extremely fragile, but okay. So we immediately see that quantum computers are not gonna be small, they're not gonna be portable, and they're not gonna be cheap, but they are going to... Because they have unique capability you can imagine that a quantum cloud would still be very, very powerful and desirable. Now you might worry that while it's pretty easy to think that a single ion suspended in space is sort of not near its neighbors, stuff on a chip, where we have solids made of other atoms, you might say it's probably quite difficult to make that type of qubit avoid decoherence, and it was quite difficult. Back in the '90s when they were first proposed and demonstrated, you had about a nanosecond before they became useless and then over the last, what is it? Sort of 20ish years, there's been six order of magnitude improvement so that we can store quantum information on a chip and most of this improvement was done by people at Yale. Also the world leader in quantum error correction, which I don't have time to go into. So in the last three minutes here let me say something about what quantum computing could do for mankind. So this is a picture of Einstein again. Gotta get him in there with his friend, Fritz Haber, and Haber invented something called the Haber-Bosch process in the beginning of the 20th Century, and it's a way to extract nitrogen from the air and make ammonia. Ammonia is a very critical component fertilizer and this led to the Green Revolution of the second half of the 20th Century, and it's actually a very tough bond to break this nitrogen bond. So it's very energy intensive and it has to be done it 250 bars of pressure, which is the pressure two and a half kilometers under the sea, and at 450 degrees centigrade, which is the melting point of aluminum. So it's very energy intensive and it emits a lot of CO2 when you do this. In fact, the National Academy of Sciences estimated that 1% of total US energy for gas or oil, and what does it say net energy and natural gas is used yearly, just for the Haber-Bosch process. So 1% of all the energy we use goes into this and creates a lot of CO2. So a grand challenge in quantum chemistry would be to figure out how we could do this much less energy intensively, and here's this co-factor called Fe-Mo Co which if you let bacteria have it, they can produce nitrogen from soil at room temperature and pressure instead of the pressure of the bottom of the sea and so on, and we don't know how they do it. It's too complicated. We don't know enough about the properties of this co-factor to figure out. If we did, maybe we could actually turn it into industrial process and save an enormous amount of energy. Another example I like is something related to biomedical science, and this case these guys Sels and Demler, they talked to medical biophysicists to ask what could a quantum computer do for you. Since Demler seems to be married to a biophysicist, this was probably relatively easy, and they talked about this metabolic dark matter. So we all know about genomics and some people know about cataloging all the proteins, proteomics, but then the next level of functional things in the body are called metabolites, and they're 200,000 metabolites and we only know what 1% of them do and so on and so we'd like to know that, but the way we try to figure it out was by shining NMR radiation on them and looking at the signal we get back, and this is very sparse information, and from this signal it's very hard to figure out a complicated structure, okay? And so this is how we're doing it now, but we can't do it that well and Sels and his co-workers designed an algorithm which uses a combination of pattern recognition and AI and quantum simulation to identify metabolites from spectrum, and it used the Shor-like speed up. The same thing that Shor used to speed up factorization and they did some examples and they were able to reproduce known spectra. You might say, well, how did they do that 'cause they don't have a quantum computer? And the answer is they only did it up to the exponential wall and they're just hoping if we get a quantum computer it can go through the exponential wall, but they're checking that the idea is working with a classical computer simulating a quantum computer. Okay, so that's all I wanted to get across about how exciting and interesting the next phase is and how philosophically and conceptually important the common information revolution is. So we're going boldly into the quantum future and we at Yale hope to be finding out what happens there. Thank you for your attention. - [Florian] There's a little visual typing happening. Thank you so much for this talk doc. We have a question from Annie. You talked a little bit about what quantum computer could do. Can you tell us for... The question is what kind of complex problem can quantum computer have solved so far? - Okay, maybe I didn't make this clear. So there aren't quantum computers really. I mean, they're very, very kind of rudimentary and people are using them, but at the moment we have dozens of qubits, not even 100 that work together, they don't work together flexibly and so on. So there is no quantum computer that's really doing stuff yet. That's groundbreaking stuff. There are lots of little examples of things they're doing. The first thing people are doing is to try to, not the first thing but one of the first things is to look at actual molecules because that's kind of a very natural thing for quantum simulation and we have bigger quantum simulators and multipurpose computers. So that's the kind of things going on, but so far just looks really promising, nothing's been shown yet. - [Florian] And I guess the question that I have and I have multiple regression that is it doesn't exist yet, but like when do you think it will happen? - Well, I'm not-- - [Florian] I think that's the million dollar question. - So my colleague Rob Schoelkopf, I hope I quoted correctly, I think to have something that you really can learn how to use the quantum computer and start doing things, which I'd say we're not even quite there yet, that's gonna be only five years maybe, maybe less. The breakthrough, the change in human society, the economy, I don't know. I don't think it's either gonna fail massively or it's gonna be here in 20 years, but that's just my gut feelings. There's been unbelievable progress made. So that's my gut feeling, but this is all over the map and a lot of people are saying it's already here, we're already doing it, you can buy our web services. So you're gonna hear all the big spectrum of answers to that question. - [Florian] Are there any problem where even quantum computer can hit the exponential wall you were talking about earlier? - Well, a partially answer to this. Well, first, yes, in the sense that we don't know the full capabilities of a quantum computer, and so there are lots of problems of exponential walls and we haven't figured out a quantum algorithm to solve them fast, and I don't know whether there's any proofs that they don't exist ones, but specifically, the new kinds of coding problem your coding may wanna do, they're gonna use another math problem not factoring prime numbers, I'm sorry, finding prime factors of large numbers. They're gonna use a different kind of hard math problem where nobody has come up with a quantum algorithm and I think some people are much further along than me in understanding which ones can and cannot be solved, but certainly there are many exponentially hard problems we haven't figured in quantum algorithms. Another thing I wanna mention is that, and this is now I'm quoting a very knowledgeable person from Microsoft, Matthias Troyer, who said that quantum computing is gonna be good for hard compute problems, not for big data problems. So if there's some place in the program or in the calculation, where there's an exponential wall, you'll use a quantum computer. If you wanna have massive storage and so on and be able to use it, actually, you're gonna use a classical computer that's gonna be easier in certain ways. So that was his general take on it. So networking and the kinds of things that Google wanna do is very much a hard computer problem. - [Florian] I'm gonna be talk about Google. That's a perfect segue to the next question. Somebody is asking what did Google do with the quantum computer effort last year and the quantum supremacy? - So the, - And how's it different? - The idea that emerged, which was a reasonable idea, was that well, let's find a problem which has an exponential wall, that may be the easiest problem to make quantum hardware for, and let's show that we can get an answer when no classical computer could. So it is not a useful problem and there's big arguments about whether it's even an interesting problem. I heard both sides argued recently here in the Quantum Institute, but it wasn't a practical problem. So they did a kind of sorting problem, that's not even right, but it's essentially a statistical problem where you had to detect a certain statistical behavior that was characteristic of interference in quantum mechanics and you could try to simulate that problem on a classical computer and they got to a size where no classical computer could do it and they got an answer which looked to be measuring quantum interference. It was not dramatic (laughs). The quantum mechanics predicted to and they got 1.06. So their computer was not working perfectly, but they claimed that in classical computer couldn't have even gotten the 0.06. So it was a very abstract problem that they wanted to claim quantum supremacy. So, but I think the fact that they got so close is showing that we're making progress and there are different approaches. Our approach here at Yale has been to try to do quantum error correction and do much cleaner quantum computations with smaller numbers of bits and so on, and so that's the approach we've chosen. Google has chosen one approach, IBM is more or less going more in our direction and so on. So yes, it was a big deal 'cause it did show something beyond what a classical computer could do. So in that sense it's big, but it's a tiny, tiny inch above the threshold. I mean, it's not anything dramatic yet. - [Florian] Somebody asked the question, I've noticed there's a lot of physicists working on these topics with the background in physics, what are the possibility for engineers in this field? - So from my understanding from talking to Rob Schoelkopf, the director of this institute who founded the QCI, this startup company, oh, sorry, what do I need to do? Okay, sorry, is that actually more than half the people or half the people are engineers and software engineers and so on. So I think it's very clear that this is a field where we'll need lots of electrical engineers, computer scientists, software engineers, probably mechanical engineers. Anyway, so there's a lot of opportunity there, but the big barrier, the exponential wall here, is that you have to understand something about quantum mechanics and so we're working on educational courses that can take someone without a full physics background and they could just use my talk, but it's probably not quite deep enough to do that. So yes, there will be a big role for engineers. - [Florian] And then we can also say that the Yale Quantum Institute regroups departments out here in physics, applied physics, computer science, electrical engineering, chemistry, so we're really trying to bring a very-- - It's naturally interdisciplinary and also at least for the moment, it's like a seller's market. So anybody with quantum training that's legit you can get hired maybe without doing any postdoc or maybe out of your PhD, but we don't like that. So forget I said that. - [Florian] Thank you, there's a lot more question pouring in. What in particular do you see the YQI team contributing to the coming decades? Like, what's next, what do you think that the Yale labs will bring in the field? - Thank you, I don't know. This is a Yale person. - [Florian] It's an anonymous thing. Maybe somebody from Yale is sending us that, like a local question for us. - Okay, so I didn't wanna be too parochial, but I think that, I mean Yale deserves a lot of credit, both for inventing a lot of the foundational stuff, but for taking a completely different and very patient systematic approach, and in doing that they've actually changed the paradigm and only a few other places. As of last year no one but Yale was doing this. I understand now some other people are doing this, and they stopped using the superconducting circuits as their artificial atoms. They started actually using photons, light in cavities, and I don't have a picture here, but it doesn't look like the flat thing that I have here, right? The new thing looks like something you might have on your cable box. Yeah, it doesn't look like that flat thing that I have in this picture. It's three dimensional and it's small, it's not as big as your cable box, but it looks very different, and that's 'cause we're storing information in light and the reason we're storing information in light, or in photons, actually, microwave photons, is because photons don't interact strongly and they have fewer ways that they can actually disappear, and so we've already shown that they can have 10 times longer lifetimes than the superconducting qubits we used to use. So, and we hope to pioneer this method of using storage with photons and processing with superconducting elements, which is unique to Yale and now it's spreading a little bit, and then the second thing is that we hope to add error correction, efficient error correction way before anybody else, and I won't tell you, it gets pretty technical, why we think we are so far ahead, but we have good reasons to think this. - [Florian] We've gotten a lot of question in the Q&A regarding like the investment of China on quantum computing. They are wondering what are the the implication of this, and if they will have gone a bit before, but I think you've answered this question saying like, we hope that the Yale team has something. - Well, so I think that the idea of encryption, and sending encrypted messages is very exciting to the Chinese and lots of people to be fair, and they've been really pushing quantum communication, not quantum computing. I guess they're catching up somewhat in quantum computing, and one of the things I didn't get to say is that there is a proof that you can send unbreakable coded messages with quantum mechanics, and that is out there already and it's being sold commercially. We don't know who's using it in defense. So I think they're very much interested in the secrecy, coding, decoding aspect of it more than the quantum computing at the moment, but that's just a guess. - [Florian] I think the clock is running and I'm gonna maybe end on this question. Since we're a university we have a question from a college student. Willis asking like what could a student do today to prepare for quantum computing in the future? What are the subjects or major you should consider? Is it better to do CS or physics? Like what is your take on a young person who wants to join the efforts? - I think that both are very good. So you should do what you like more, specifically, Shor who was not trained in quantum mechanics, but just kind of understood the math of quantum mechanics was able to find this thing that he knew stuff in computer science and in complexity theory that most physicists at that time didn't know, and he made the revolution, honestly, so he started the revolution. So in that sense you can master the math and do something as a computer scientist or applied mathematician. Being a physicist if you wanna work on hardware, that's definitely a good idea to be a physicist, or if there are joint efforts between physics and engineering, you could be an engineer. So that would be an answer, I think either are promising. - [Florian] There's also the question he had it was like, he was worried about having his work and computer science being obsolete since the field is moving so fast, and so that was also one of the concern, and I think in that case people here working really in collaboration. We've talked a lot with the people in computer science here and so I think the field is moving along and so yeah. - I also I sort of said this, but I said it fast, and maybe it's a good thing to end on. You're not gonna have a quantum computer in your phone, you're not gonna have a quantum computer in your house. You don't need a quantum computer in your house, you're not always running up against big compute problems with exponential walls. Google is running up against them when they're trying to route signals and do stuff over a billion links and so on. So it's not a replacement for all of the classical computing and software or anything like that. So clearly you're not gonna be totally obsolete unless you're very interested in complexity theory, and even then it won't be obsolete, I suspect. - [Florian] I think we're gonna end on that note. Thank you so much for tuning in. We have a lot of unanswered questions. They were actually very technical. So maybe in the future we'll have another event like this for a slightly more technical approach with the Q&A system and maybe a moderate conversation. Thank you so much for tuning in. - We can bring in people that know more than quantum. - [Florian] You should consider subscribing to our public event newsletter that you can find on our website, quantuminstitute.yale.edu/subscribe. Thank you all so much, and thank you, Doug, for taking the time to tell us all about quantum computers. Have a great night. 