 -I'm gonna ask you some questions Verna and I need you to be straight with me, do you understand? I'm not a cop, I don't give a good goddamn what you get up to in here -Yes detective  -When did you find her like this? -Yesterday. I hadn't seen David all day so I came to find him and found this instead -Where is he?  -I don't know where he is -An asset like that I find that hard to believe  -I haven't seen him since his last client the night before -Miss Dorothy was a frequent client -Name ain't Dorothy. It's Madeleine Avery She's a married woman well she was. I'll let you guess to who. -What? Are you certain? -Mr. Avery hired us to spy on her extracurriculars that's why we were here the other night He thought she might be having an affair.   Wasn't happy to be right. -Her neck shows signs of contusion indicating strangulation. No blood or signs of struggle further confirms cause of death likely to be from asphyxia -Do you think he..?  -Who knows. Look Verna I ain't gonna lie to you this looks bad. Real bad. The Law ain't too forgiving when it comes to automatons Prohibition ain't helping either  -I know it's a death sentence. That's why I came to you This isn't like David, it just isn't. I feel like someone is setting him up -Did you notice anything peculiar the last couple nights? Anybody new? Anything that didn't feel right? -It's hard to say we attract a novel of clientele.  They appreciate our discretion -The doorframe is slightly splintered around the lock suggesting a possible forced entry It could be our suspect entered here and exited through the window -Will you help me detective You must understand David is a friend not many would understand that in my position but I'd like to think you could see how that's possible He doesn't deserve to be flashed for something he would never have... -Consider us hired. -Thank you. I don't know what I would have done So what now -Well we'll start with the husband first he's our prime suspect given what we know and he's an asshole. If he turns up dry we'll have to scare up David. Drag him out from whatever rock he crawled under and hear his side of the story -What can I be doing  -We'll need you to keep the cops busy for us -Cops? I don't understand. I hoped to keep the law out of this. The whole reason I contacted you was... -I know. But we don't want any trouble for covering this up it never works. We're better coming at it clean. Bodies have a way of turning up. -I sure hope you know what you're doing detective. -Mind if I use your phone? -What a dump -Well if it ain't old Sammy regal  -Hello Tommy -You gotta call my suit guy Sam I'll give you his number -Verna this is detective Tommy Egan -Good day detective -I see you brought your boyfriend -You got a fresh one huh?  Looks like I got lost on his paper route -Who is this now Tom?  -No one Allen Sam here is just one of those cautionary tales at the bureau Wasn't a bad partner until he got a hard-on for the equipment here and up and quit the force -Oh he's the guy -So who's this sweet young thing? -Her name is Dorothy. Dorothy Wells.  She was a regular customer of ours here at the club -And now she's dead and your Automatom hooker killed her and ran off Is that the story? -We don't know that for certain. Miss Verna has hired us to investigate... -You shut your goddamn mouth. You got a long leash on this one here Sammy -Don't you listen to the radio Tommy? They got rights now same as you -Yeah the stiff in there's really celebrating -We were hired to look into it on behalf of Miss Verna here. -It's true officers they are here at my behest -Oh behest. Listen, this is becoming quite a hobby of yours Sammy showing up every time some City Dame drops dead. You're getting a reputation. -For what? Solving your cases? -Alright. Playtime's over.  Leave this to the badge and gun types You know. Police. -We'll need you to come down to the precinct with us for for the questioning. -You okay?  -I'll be fine detective we'll be in touch -Officers you have my full cooperation -Come on Carl. Tommy. Allen. It's been swell I don't want to see you around here anymore Sammy. You're underfoot, you get me? -Detective Egan is an abrasive, unpleasant individual  -Yeah? Well not everyone's got your natural charm, Carl Hopefully Verna can keep those two busy long enough to buy us some time -Back to the Avery estate, then?  -Bet my bottom dollar he's got his thumb stuck in this mess. I hate to admit it Carl, but you were right -I take no pleasure in it -Might be best to sneak in - And if we get caught? -I'll improvise -When a specific outcome is desired, an explicit plan is generally considered -Best laid plans Carl. You know what they say -Yes but some of the plans in that metaphor were made by mice They were mice plans. Expectations of success would necessarily be low -You got a better idea? -Oh hello -The hell do you think you're doing in here? -Trespassing -You don't think I can't take you apart? Wouldn't be the first time Never done a Swangee man before -Does this presentation for effective masculinity generally intimidate your adversaries? -I think I'll start with that mouth -Hi Henry -Don't worry. The gun ain't for you Regal Drink? Might take you a bit to catch up  -No thanks. It's not why I'm here -I don't care why you're here, so why not have a drink? I got the good stuff -I ain't thirsty  -Sure you are. What do you want? I got scotch Whiskey Pick your poison I got em all -That the best you got? -I can do this for approximately 13 more hours -Don't worry. It's not gonna take that long -Look I ain't here about your troubles with Uncle Sam. I'm here about Madeline. What did you do? -What did I do? I did what any man would've done in my position. If I was younger I might've done it myself. Might as well pay someone who would actually enjoy it -She's dead Henry  -The hell she is She's probably off with her mandroid right now spending all my money  -We found her body at the neon rose this morning -Your wife is dead and David ain't turned up yet so if you got any startling insight as to where he is now would be a hell of a time for it -They weren't supposed to kill her. She wasn't even supposed to be there Just take care of the Tin Man that's what I told 'em -Told who? Who did you hire Henry? -Who did I hire? Who do you think? The only people who'd have done it anyway. Luddites -Luddites? Are you crazy? -It's been said -If you gave up now, I would never tell a soul -Look, Henry why don't you put the gun down let's talk about this -If you didn't kill Madeleine...  -You don't understand -It's too late. I've lost everything Why didn't you just give them what they wanted Henry? Got to do every goddamn thing your way -Henry -I did it because I loved her Sam I just wanted her to feel a little of the pain that she put me through that's all -Henry -See yourself out, would you? -Henry. Don't! 