 (dramatic orchestral music with increasing intensity) - [Sam] We got a heap of dead Averies and a missing David. That's a whole lotta nothin'. - [Verna] Couldn't you have stopped him? - [Sam] Already made up his mind. This is quite the corker you brought us here, Verna. Make a great chapter in my memoirs. - There's no proof that David is already dead. If we can find him, he may have answers to our questions. (lighter striking) (exhales) (suspenseful piano music) - They give you much trouble down at the station? - As much trouble as one could expect. I answered their questions, but I don't think they were listening. - Hell, that's just how they work in there. They don't want to give anything away either. It's just a game they gotta play. - Still... They are watching me, closely. Seeing if I'll, somehow lead them to David. - Well, I guess the cat is out of the bag now. Before he started waving his piece around, Avery told me he brought in some Luddites to get rid of David. That's our best lead at the moment. Find these Luddites, maybe find David too. That is... if they haven't already killed him. - Luddites? You'll have to excuse me, I'm not familiar. - Luddites are, in their words, a "humanist" group, although in practice they are violent radicals who hunt automatons. I find their rhetoric particularly unconvincing. (suspenseful string music) They believe we are a danger to society. They have an outward face, one of community and heartland values, and a second, inward face which has... a less civil purpose. (escalating string music) The movement has unfortunately gained traction with a growing number of Americans. (rough scuffling) I fear what it might eventually become someday. - If these men, these Luddites, are as dangerous as you say, David doesn't stand a chance... - That's why we'll have to move quickly. - How do you plan on finding them? (electronic motors moving) - Yeah. Keep it up Eddie, boy. Keep it up. Huh? Keep it up, Keep talking like that and I'll introduce you to my friend Mister two by four, yeah. (metal clanking) It's so cute? Think it's so funny? I take too much, too much crap around here. Damn, cooks, think they running-- - How are ya, Lenny? - Oh, hey. Hey, Sammy. How ya doin', huh? Yeah, you look great man. Ya know? Yeah, you got that beautiful chin still-- (stammers) Stay away from me! - Lenny... - [Lenny] Stay away from me! - No need to get hysterical! I just wanna talk! (skidding and crashing) - Oof! Ahhh. - Hello Lenny. Good to see you again. - Yeah, you tincans got a terminal case of no manners! Didn't your momma teach you nothin'? Don't you know it's rude to sneak up on people?! - Sneaking would require movement. - Here's the deal, Lenny. We need some information and I thought, who would know better than my favorite snitch? He's always got his ear to the ground. - I'm telling ya for the last time, okay. I ain't no snitch. I got a business. I trade information. I'm like one of them, you know, information guys. - Lenny. We both know you're the biggest rat this side of the Hudson. You'd sell out your own mother out at the drop off a hat. - Well depends on the hat, Sammy. You get yourself a porkpie, or like a real nice fedora... A fedora with like a feather on top, like a feather from an extinct animal. - What do you know about Henry Avery? - Avery? Oh. Not much. Just the usual rumpus. I mean, blew his brains out on account of Uncle Sam and (clears throat) you know, not to mention his dead wife. But you know, that ain't nothing nobody already don't know. - What about Luddites? Have you heard anything about Mr. Avery hiring Luddites to kidnap or kill an automaton? - Yeah. Maybe. And maybe not. Okay, guys. You want information, huh? Well then you gotta pay the piper, alright? And that's... Guess what? Me! No more freebies, guys! So you can intimidate me all you want, but until I see some green, I'm not saying nothing about nothing, no how and that is final! ROSCOE, OKAY! ROSCOE! AVERY HIRED A LUDDITE NAMED ROSCOE! - And where can we find this Roscoe? - I don't know! Honestly! I ain't in with those guys, you know? - Better start thinking harder, Lenny. - Ugh, God! Carl! C'mon? Cut me down, Carl! - Lenny, you must understand. Sam is a "wild card". I have no control over him. Some have compared him to a junkyard dog. (rope releasing) (Lenny sceams) - Okay, okay, okay! (crying) He works at the old Prescott Plant. Uhhh... Sometimes they meet in the engine room. Usually around eight o'clock! Maybe he's there! You know. I... (desperate groaning) - There's that cooperative spirit. See, was that so hard? Anything else you gotta tell us? - That's all I know! I swear! Sam, now please will you put me down? Please? - Nice chatting with you, Lenny. Always a pleasure. Thanks for hanging around. - No, okay. I'm scared I'm gonna die. I got type two... Ahhh. Just put me down now, okay? (rope swinging) Sammy? (Rope tensing) Guys? - The Prescott Plant is on the other side of town. If we hurry we can make it there in time. - Sorry, Carl. "We" ain't going anywhere. That ain't a good neighborhood. You gotta be the home team on this one. - Obviously attending the meeting was out of the question, but I could still offer my services... - Look, I ain't asking. It's too risky. Who knows what kind of hornet's nest I'm walking into there? If any of these Luddite sonsabitches find you, they'll eat you alive. Wait for me at the office. It doesn't do us any good if we're both in danger. You gotta trust me on this one, Carl. - I understand, Detective. So, tell me... how will you "improvise" your way into this meeting? - Who, me? I'm gonna get lost in the crowd. - [Unknown] Come on, guys. Hurry up. - [Roscoe] You are all here for a reason. (crowd whistling) You have all been chosen. You have heard a voice calling you into action. (dramatic piano music) You want to make a difference in this world. (crowd cheering) You want to make this city a better place. But we've been sold the lie of progress! (crowd shouting agreements) The work of man's hand, should never imitate human life. That is the sacred right, of our Lord. (shouts in agreement) Who are we, to make these mockeries of divine creation? We are not God. Brothers, this is sacrilege. (booing) These automatons are an abomination and they must be cast down! (rowdy cheering) The government, has finally come to realize that. Our cause is now vindicated by law. The manufacturing of these irreverent machines is no longer legal. But it is our charge to smite the rest. That, is our mission! (crowd cheering) This is our crusade! Who among you will join me? (louder cheering) Who among you will be the hand of God?!? (crowd roaring) (quiet whispering) Brothers! We have a special surprise for you tonight. A very special surprise. (metal clanking) (shuffling feet) (intense music) (harsh shoving) Today is your Confirmation. For in this hot oil, you shall be anointed. Who wants first crack? (crowd erupts with offers) You sir! Come on! (crowd hassling) (loud smacking of the bat) (encouraging cheers) (apprehensive clapping) (bustling crowd) Who's next? - Me! Me! (escalating suspenseful music) (smashing of bat) (clapping) (supportive cheering) - Hit it while it gets good, boys! Who's next? - Lemme at him! - You, sir! Come on down! (intensifying orchestral music) (crowd berating) (cracking of the bat on metal) (whacking) (croud cheering) (violent hitting) (fierce swinging) (crowd celebrating) (Intense orchestral music) 