 (car engine whirring) (car horn honking, sirens blaring) (thunder rumbling) (men laughing) (bright jazzy music) (chattering) - [Sam] You run quite the establishment here. I've also been told you have quite the menu. - I believe you'll find our product to be some of the best in the city. We are fully equipped to placate your every desire. Whatever your pleasure may be, our beddies are fully custom. - That's all well and good, ma'am, but this ain't my first rodeo. I've had my share of Betties. I think I'm ready to cross the street. You take my meaning? - I think I'm beginning to understand. - You see, I've grown quite bored of this one. Last year's model. But he does like to watch. Don't you, Carl? Who knows, you might learn a thing or two. Is that going to cost me extra? - We do have one that meets your requirements, Mr. Regal, but unfortunately, he is currently with another customer. - Well, I've got nowhere to be. I like 'em warmed up. - Well, then, please make yourselves comfortable. I'll come get you when the time's right. - Thank you. - Thank you, ma'am. All right, let's get down to business. I bet that customer is our girl Madeline. - I like to watch? - Don't you? Come on, I improvised. - I don't have a position for the subject of watching. - Live a little, Carl. We got our lead, didn't we? You got any ideas about which room they're in? - They're on the second floor. 15 feet above us. - How do you know that? - I can hear them. - Over all this racket? - Not the full details of their conversation. I would have to get closer to make out what they are saying. - I'll cover you from the stairs. Go in and take a closer look. We'll need everything that we can get. You recording? - Constantly. (chattering) (muffled chattering) - Here, not like this. Let's run away together, just us. I'd leave him for you, David, I would. Just say the word. (laughing) (snapping) (chattering) David. Do it so Henry can hear me. I want him to hear you cry out. - For God's sake. (laughing) - David. - I can't believe this. I was. This. - Your wife has been heading over to the Neon Rose under the name Dorothy Wells. It wasn't hard to find her. Not many places got models to serve women. She visits this particular David fellow once or twice a week. - Makes my skin crawl. I've been made a fool of by this God damn hat rack. - Well, we're all fools one way or the other, Mr. Avery. I wouldn't beat yourself up too much over it. - Can these damn things even love a woman? - Carl, you want to field that one? - I'm very sorry, Mr. Avery. - What do you intend to do about this, if you don't mind me asking. - What the hell do you care? - Well, I just deliver this kind of news on the regular. Some men take a hard situation, find a way to make it worse. (bell ringing) - Your job is to film people screwing with your pervert mannequin here. Detective Regal, you are a pornographer, at best. I will keep my own moral counsel, thank you very much. My assistant Leroy will deliver you your fee on your way out. - Mr. Avery. Come on, Carl. We don't want to overstay our welcome. (melancholy music) Thanks, Charlie. (chattering) Here's to one more month of keeping the lights on. Cheers, pal. What's the matter, you don't feel like celebrating? - I can't help but consider the information we gave Mr. Avery. - Carl. - I fear it will cause him to do something reprehensible. - We talked about this. - Are we doing the right thing, Sam? - We ain't cops, anymore, Carl. As far as we're concerned, we did a semi-honest job for some honest pay and that's that. You start taking the moral high ground and our cases will be out on the streets within a week. So Mr. Avery can reprehense all the live long day if he wants to, it's no skin off our nose. - Who are you trying to convince, Detective? - The hell if I know. - Get your morning paper. Morning news. Read all about it. Morning paper, ma'am? Get your morning paper, morning news. Read all about it. Hey, Mister, how about a paper? - No, thanks, kid, I've got enough problems without reading. On second thought, keep the change. - Thanks, Mister. Read all about it, get your morning paper, morning news. - You see the paper, Carl? Oh. - Detective Regal, you remember Verna. From the Neon Rose. She was very insistent. - I'm sorry, I didn't realize we had company. Otherwise I would have warmed. (slapping) First one's on the house, lady. The next one's gonna cost you. - I need your help. - You got a funny way of asking. Did you have some of Carl's coffee? - That was for the hoodwinking you pulled, coming into my establishment under false pretenses. Should have known you were up to no good. - We even now? - We haven't much time, we must act quickly. - Somebody want to fill me in? - There's been a situation at the Neon Rose. - What do you mean situation? God damn it. (melancholy music) God damn it all to hell. I'm gonna ask you some questions, Verna. And I need you to be straight with me, you understand? I'm not a cop, I don't give a good God damn what you get up to in here. - Yes, Detective. - When'd you find her like this? - Yesterday. I hadn't seen David all day, so I came to find him, and found this instead. - Where is he? - I don't know where he is. - Asset like that, I find that hard to believe. - I haven't seen him since his last client the night before. Miss Dorothy was a frequent client. - Name ain't Dorothy. It's Madeline Avery. She's a married woman. Well, she was. I'll let you guess to who. - What, are you certain? - Mr. Avery hired us to spy on her extra curriculars, that's why we were here the other night, he thought she might be having an affair. Wasn't happy to be right. - Her neck shows signs of contusion, indicating strangulation. No blood or signs of struggle confirms cause of death likely to be from asphyxia. - Do you think he-- - Who knows. Look, Verna, I ain't gonna lie to you. This looks bad, real bad. The law ain't too forgiving when it comes to automatons. Prohibition ain't helping, neither. - I know, it's a death sentence. That's why I came to you. This isn't like David, it just isn't. I feel like someone is setting him up. - Did you notice anything peculiar the last couple nights? Anybody new, anything didn't feel right. - It's hard to say. We attract a novel clientele. They appreciate our discretion. - The door frame is slightly screwed around the lock, suggesting a possible forced entry. It could be our suspect entered here and exited through the window. - Will you help me, Detective? You must understand, David is a friend. Not many would understand that in my position, but I'd like to think you could see how that's possible. He doesn't deserve to be flashed for something he would never have-- - Consider us hired. - Thank you. I don't know what I would have done. So what now? - Well, we start with the husband, first. He's our prime suspect, given what we know. And he's an asshole. If he turns up dry, we'll have to scare up David. Drag him out from whatever rock he crawled under and hear his side of the story. - What can I be doing? - I need you to keep the cops busy for us. - Cops? I don't understand. I hoped to keep the law out of this. The whole reason I contacted you was-- - I know. But we don't want any trouble for covering this up. It never works. We're better coming at it clean. Bodies have a way of turning up. - I sure hope you know what you're doing, Detective. - Mind if I use your phone? (chattering) (cheery jazzy music) - What a dump. Well, if it ain't old Sammy Regal. - Hello, Tommy. - You ought to call my suit guy, Sam. I'll give you his number. - Verna, this is Detective Tom Egan. - Good day, Detective. - I see you brought your boyfriend. - You got a fresh one, huh? Looks like he got lost on his paper route. - Who is this now, Tom? - No one, Alan. Sam here is just one of those cautionary tales at the bureau. Wasn't a bad partner. 'Til he got a hard on for the equipment here and up and quit the force. - Ah. (laughing) He's the guy. - So, who's this sweet young thing? - Her name is Dorothy. Dorothy Wells. She was a regular customer of ours here at the club. - And now she's dead. And your automaton hooker killed her and ran off. Is that the story? - We don't know that for certain. Miss Verna has hired us to investigate-- - You shut your God damn mouth. You got a long leash on this one here, son. - Don't you listen to the radio, Tommy? They got rights now, same as you. - Yeah. Stiff in there's really celebrating. - We were hired to look into it on behalf of Miss Verna here. - It's true, officers. They are here at my behest. - Oh. Behest. (laughing) Listen. This is becoming quite a hobby of yours, son. Showing up every time some city dame drops dead. (tisking) You're getting a reputation. - For what, solving your cases? - All right, play time's over. Leave this to the badge and gun types. You know, police. - We'll need you to come down to the precinct with us for further questioning. - You OK? - I'll be fine, Detective. We'll be in touch. - Officers, you have my full cooperation. - Come on, Carl. Tommy. Alan. It's been swell. - I don't want to see you around here anymore, Sammy. You and the foot. You hear me? - [Carl] Detective Edan is an abrasive, unpleasant individual. - Yeah? Well, not everyone's got your natural charm, Carl. Hopefully, Verna can keep those two busy long enough to buy us some time. - Back to the Avery estate then? - Bet my bottom dollar he's got his thumb stuck in this mess. I hate to admit it, Carl, but you were right. - I take no pleasure in it. - Might be best to sneak in. - And if we get caught? - I'll improvise. - If a specific outcome is desired, an explicit plan is generally considered-- - Best laid plans, Carl. You know what they say. - Yes, but some of the plans of that metaphor were made by mice. They were mice plans. Expectations of success would necessarily be low. - You got a better idea? (dog barking) (ominous music) (crashing) - Oh, hello. - What the hell do you think you're doing in here? - Trespassing. (crashing) - You don't think I can take you apart? Wouldn't be the first time. Never done a Swangee man before. - Does this presentation of effective masculinity generally intimidate your adversaries? - I think I'll start with that mouth. - Hi ya, Henry. - (scoffing) Don't worry. The gun ain't for you, Regal. Drink? Might take you a bit to catch up. - No thanks. It's not why I'm here. - I don't care why you're here. So why not have a drink? I got the good stuff. - I ain't thirsty. - Sure you are. What do you want? I got scotch. (gun firing) Whiskey. (gun firing) Pick your poison, I got 'em all. (grunting, dramatic music) - That the best you got? - I can do this for approximately 13 more hours. - Don't worry. It's not gonna take that long. - Look, I ain't here about your troubles with Uncle Sam. I'm here about Madeline. What did you do? - Well, I did what any man would have done in my position. If I was younger, I might have done it myself. But I might as well pay someone who would actually enjoy it. - She's dead, Henry. - The hell she is. She's probably off with her mandroid right now spending all my money. - We found her body at the Neon Rose this morning. Your wife is dead. And David ain't turned up yet. So if you got any startling insight as to where he is, now would be a hell of a time for it. - Madeline. You weren't supposed to kill her. She wasn't even supposed to be there. Just take care of the tin man, that's what I told him. - Told who? Who did you hire, Henry? - Who did I hire? Who do you think? The only people who'd have done it anyway, Luddites. - Luddites? Are you crazy? (gun shooting) - It's been said. (dramatic music) (crunching, grunting) - If you give up now, I would never tell a soul. - Look, Henry, why don't you put the gun down? Let's talk about this. If you didn't kill Madeline-- - You don't understand. It's too late. I've lost everything. Why didn't you just give 'em what they wanted, Henry? Got to do every God damn thing your way. - Henry. - I did it because I loved her, Sam. I just wanted her to feel a little of the pain that she put me through. That's all. - Henry. - See yourself out, would you? - Henry, don't. (gun shooting) Got a heap of dead Averys and a missing David. It's a whole lot of nothing. - [Verna] Couldn't you have stopped him? - [Sam] Already made up his mind. This is quite the corker you brought us here, Verna. Make a great chapter of my memoirs. - There's no proof that David is already dead. If we can find him, he may have answers to our questions. - They give you much trouble down at the station? - As much trouble as one could expect. I answered their questions, but I don't think they were listening. - That's just how they work in there. They don't want to give anything away, either. It's just a game they got to play. - Still, they were watching me, closely. Seeing if I'll somehow lead them to David. - Well, I guess the cat is out of the bag now. Before he started waving his piece around, Avery told me he brought in some Luddites to get rid of David. That's our best lead at the moment. Find these Luddites, maybe find David, too. That is, if they haven't already killed him. - Luddites? You'll have to excuse me, I'm not familiar. - Luddites are, in vague words, a humanist group. Although in practice, they are violent radicals who hunt automatons. I find the rhetoric particularly unconvincing. They believe we are a danger to society. They have an outward face of community and heartland values. But a second, inward face, which has amassed several worries. (tense music) The movement has unfortunately gained traction with a growing number of Americans. I fear what it might eventually become someday. - If these men, these Luddites, are as dangerous as you say, David doesn't stand a chance. - That's why we have to move quickly. - How do you plan on finding them? - Yeah, keep it up, Benny boy, keep it up, huh? Keep it up, keep talk like that, I'll introduce you to my friend, Mr. Two by Four, yeah. So cute. So funny. I take too much crap. Damn cooks. - How are ya, Lenny? - Well, hey, hey, Sammy, how ya doing, huh? Hey, you look great, man. You know. You got that beautiful chin, still. Stay away from me. - Lenny. - [Lenny] Stay away from me. - No need to get hysterical, I just want to talk. (grunting) - Hello, Lenny. Good to see you again. - Your tin can's got a terminal case of no manners. Didn't your mama teach you nothing? Don't you know it's rude to sneak up on people? - Sneaking would require movement. - Here's the deal, Lenny. We need some information. And I thought, who would know better than my favorite snitch? He's always got his ear to the ground. - I'm telling you for the last time, OK? I ain't no snitch. I got a business. I trade information. I'm like one of them, you know, information guys. - Lenny, we both know you're the biggest rat this side of the Hudson. You'd sell out your own mother at the drop of a hat. - Well, depends on the hat, Sammy. You get yourself a pork pie, or like a real nice fedora, a fedora with like a feather on top, a feather from like an extinct animal. - What do you know about Henry Avery? - Avery? Not much. Just the usual rumpus. I mean, blew his brains out on account of Uncle Sam and not to mention his dead wife, but you know, that ain't nothing nobody didn't already know. - What about Luddites? Have you heard anything about Mr. Avery hiring Luddites to kidnap or kill an automaton? - Yeah, maybe. And maybe not. OK, guys. You want information, huh? Well, then, you got to pay the piper, all right? And that's just what me. No more freebies, guys. So you can intimidate me all you want, but until I see some green, I'm not saying nothing about nothing, nohow, and that is final. Roscoe, OK? Roscoe. Avery hired a Luddite Dave Roscoe. - And where can we find this Roscoe? - I don't know. Honestly, I ain't with those guys, you know? - [Sam] Better start thinking harder, Lenny. - Carl, Carl. Let me down, Carl. - Lenny, you must understand. Sam is a wild card. I have no control over him. Some have compared him to a junkyard dog. (yelling) - OK, OK, OK. He works at the old press complex. Sometimes they meet at the edge of the road. Usually around eight o'clock. Maybe he's there, you know. - There's the cooperative spirit, see? Was that so hard? Anything else you got to tell us? - That's all I know. I swear. Sammy, please, would you put me down, please? - Nice chatting with you, Lenny. Always a pleasure. Thanks for hanging around. - OK, it was a good time, I had a good time, too. Just put me down now, OK? Sammy. Guys? - The Prescott plant is on the other side of town. If we hurry, we can make it there in time. - Sorry, Carl, we ain't going anywhere. That ain't a good neighborhood. You got to be the home team on this one. - Obviously attending the meeting is out of the question, but I could still offer my services. - Look, I ain't asking. It's too risky. Who knows what kind of hornets nest I'm walking into there. If any of those Luddite sons of bitches find you, they'll eat you alive. Wait for me at the office. It doesn't do me any good if we're both in danger. You got to trust me on this one, Carl. - I understand, Detective. So, tell me. How will you improvise your way into this meeting? - Who, me? I'm gonna get lost in the crowd. (cheering) - [Man] Come on, guys, hurry up. - You are all here for a reason. You have all been chosen. You heard a voice calling you into action. You want to make a difference in this world. You want to make this city a better place. But we've been sold the lie of progress. (chattering) The work of man's hand should never imitate human life. That is the sacred right of our Lord. Who are we to make these mockeries of divine creation? We are not God. Brothers, this is sacrilege. These automatons are an abomination, and they must be cast down. (chattering) The government has finally come to realize that. Our cause is now vindicated by law. The manufacturing of these irreverent machines is no longer legal. But it is our charge to smite the rest. That is our mission. (cheering) This is our crusade. Who among you will join me? Who among you will be the hand of God? (cheering) Brothers. We have a special surprise for you tonight. A very special surprise. (tense music) Today is your confirmation. For in this hot oil, you shall be anointed. Who wants first crack? (cheering) You, sir. Come on down. (chattering) (smashing, grunting) Who's next? (dramatic music) (smashing, grunting) While the getting's good, boys. Who's next? - Let me at him. - You, sir. Come on down. (dramatic music) (smashing, cheering) (thunder rolling, rain pouring) (ethereal music) (smashing, grunting, cheering) (ethereal music) (smashing, grunting, cheering) (ethereal music) (smashing, grunting, cheering) (ominous music) What's your name? - Matthew. - Matthew. Welcome to the fold, brother. (cheering) We have ourselves a new scroll. (laughing) That's how you do it, boys. (laughing) (cheering) Yeah. (rain pouring) (sentimental music) - Hang in there, David. Get you all sorted out. - [Man] There he is, get him. - [Roscoe] Ain't poisoned, is it, boy? - Whiskey's fine, sir. - Whiskey. So, you're quite the slugger. Hear the Yankees are looking. (laughing) What's your story? You from around here? - Grew up in Queens. Been around the block a few times. Had a good gig at the factory until the force got replaced by automs. - That is the sad story of our time, isn't it? A lot of good men lost their job that way. God damn shame. Well, we could use a man with your character. We could work with that passion of yours. We are a growing movement. But we don't want just anybody. We have our eyes and ears in more places than you can imagine. If we ever hope to burn these things out, sea to shining sea, we must take the reigns, infiltrate from the inside. Sabotage one at a time until-- - We get our country back. - And with prohibition in place, we're halfway there. The sooner we rid ourselves of them, the better off we'll be. Think about a kid growing up now. What does he have to look forward to? We're seizing our destiny. You know what I mean? - Show me where to sign up. - Attaboy. Why don't you go help your new brothers clean up the mess out there? Come back to me after. I'll make sure you're taken care of. - If it's all the same to you, sir, I'd like to keep the head. As a trophy. To remember tonight. (laughing) - I love it. I would if I could, brother. I would if I could. That head is not mine. Someone paid a lot of money for that head. And I'm a man of my word. But don't you worry. There will be plenty of opportunities for trophies. I can assure you of that. Just clear a little space on your mantelpiece. - Yes, sir. (water wringing) (chattering) (tense music) Hey, tough guy. I'll take it from here. - But Roscoe wanted me to bring it to him. - Who do you think sent me? Scram. Get. All right, David. Speed feet. (chattering) (tense music) (chattering) - What's the matter, Roscoe? - We've been betrayed, brothers. Tricked, deceived. You find that slugger. Kill him if you have to. I don't give a shit. Just bring me back that God damn head. (dramatic music) - I suppose you boys ain't the negotiating type. - You got something that belongs to us. - This weren't never yours. - Hand it over, now. - Sorry, David, you'll thank me later. (dramatic music) (grunting) - You got some bad manners, pal. Maybe the devil can teach you some respect. (grunting) (yelling) (smacking, grunting) (gun shooting, yelling) (smacking) - I thought I told you not to follow me. - You did. But I decided it best to improvise. - Remind me to get mad at you later. Come on. Let's get the hell out of here. - What happened to the rest of him? - Long story. We don't have time for that right now. Can you figure out a way to, I don't know, jumpstart him? How long can he last like how he is? - That is a difficult question. While the main wires are not completely frayed, if I can connect him to one of my charging units, he should be serviceable. - [Sam] Just tell me what you need. - Tools, all of them. - How's it coming? Any luck? - I assure you that luck plays no part in it. Stand away, please. (whirring) - Oh, hot damn. (snapping) David. I thought we might have lost you for good. (clicking) What's he saying? Hey, fellas. Can I get in on this? - It appears David's translation capabilities have been damaged. He is unable to carry on in English. He tells me that Luddites captured him, but that you are the one responsible for his beheading. - I told ya. It's a long damn story, Carl. (clicking) - He says you struck his head repeatedly with a baseball bat. - Well, I missed all the important wires. (beeping) Look, I had no choice, OK? If I hadn't, it would have been curtains for both of us. It all worked out, right, right? (clicking) - David would like an apology. - Oh, for Christ's sakes. Look, David, we were hired by Verna to find you. Right now you're the prime suspect in Madeline's murder. Can you shed any light on what happened that night? (clicking, melancholy music) - He says humans killed Madeline. - Who? David, who was it? (clicking) - He says it was Verna. Verna Southern. (clicking) (ominous music) (scratching) - Hello, Verna. - Detective. You didn't tell me you were dropping by. - Well, we wanted to share the news with you in person. - What news? Is this about David? You found him? - The Luddites had him. It wasn't easy. I barely got out of there alive. As for David, well. This is what's left of him. - My god, what happened? - Unfortunately, David suffered grievace injuries at the hands of the Luddites. He became inoperate, Sam rescued him. - But not before we were able to get a testimony out of him. - Testimony? - Drop the act, sweetheart, it was you. You were under our nose this entire time. - Excuse me? - David told us everything. This brothel of yours is nothing but a fancy decoy, isn't that right? Your real trade isn't sex, it's information. The things that your clients let slip while they're tussling between the sheets. You gather this city's secrets with the help of the automatons you control and you exploit it to your own advantage. That's how you keep your finger on the pulse of this city. It's how you blackmailed Henry Avery with tax fraud. - Why didn't you just give them what they wanted, Henry? - Henry, don't. David wanted to run away with Madeline, but you couldn't let him do that. He was far too valuable an asset to you, not to mention all the dirt he's got on your little operation here. So you looked to get rid of Madeline. And who better to do that for you than David himself. - That's ridiculous. How could I possibly get David to do that? - David told us you have a way of control. Some means of influencing the automs to act against their will. Tell me it's not true. Tell me that after David killed Madeline, you weren't planning on blackmailing him into staying. Tell me that you wanted to find David because you actually cared about another God damn person and not just to cover your own ass. - It's not true, I told you before, David didn't kill Madeline. - No? - No. It was Carl. - Carl. What the hell you mean Carl? - I didn't. I don't remember. - No? Perhaps this will jog your memory. (cheery jazzy music) - What, no, Carl. (grunting) - You see, it's in the music. Usually nothing more than a simple control melody, keep my beddies in order and the patrons happy. But for David, I needed something more specific. Something more aggressive. Unfortunately, music only has a certain range. I didn't expect David to develop an immunity for it. But there was Carl. Standing right on the other side of that door. Spying for you, wasn't he? - [Madeline] (laughing) David. (ominous music) - When I found him, he hadn't remembered anything he'd done, just like he won't remember any of this, either. Think about that, Sam. I have to thank you. You've made this easy for me. I was worried David would squawk, but it looks like you've helped me with that problem, too. It's too bad we'll have to flash Carl for killing both you and Madeline. He would have made a fine escort. Sweet dreams, Detective. (grunting) - Did you get all that? Please tell me you got all that. Are you recording, right? - Constantly. - I don't. I don't understand. - Hell of a grip, Carl. Thanks for the evidence, Verna. I'm sure the boys down at the station will get a real kick out of it. - How? - David taught Carl his little immunity trick, isn't that right, David? (clicking) We knew it was Carl the whole time. Figured you might try something, so we decided to play it close to the vest. Face it, Verna, it's over. The jig is up. - Girls. Help me, girls. (dramatic music) (gun shooting) - Hands up. Or the next sound you hear ain't gonna be jazz. - Officer, I assure you that device standing right there is responsible. - Sure he is, lady. Tell it to the judge. - So what am I supposed to do with this? - It's evidence. There's something on that record that affects automatons. Pass it up the chain as high as it will go. - Remember when the world used to be a simpler place? A little robbery, a little murder. Just murder. Now this techno mumbo jumbo. I'll give this to someone who knows better. - We'll need to patch David up before we come down to the station. You know where to find me. (engine starting) (banging) You all right there, Carl? - I'm all right. I just can't believe we were looking for me this whole time. - Ain't you supposed to be, you know, self aware? - The irony's not lost on me. I am a murderer, Detective Regal. - That wasn't you, Carl. We've all done things we ain't proud of. That's just living. What you did, that don't have to be who you are. - Then who am I, Sam? - You're better than most, Carl. (clicking) What's he saying now? - David recommends we find him a new body soon. He has several suggestions. - Oh, yeah? Where's a body go to find a body? - There are a few places in Silverside with the necessary equipment. - Silverside, damn, Carl, you trying to get me killed? - My first attempt failed. - Got a lot of moxie for a robot, you know that? Does that come standard or is that a Swangee thing or what? - I compare favorably to moxie. - Yeah, I bet you do. Let's make it snappy, this body ain't gonna find itself. (dramatic music) - Usual, Gus. (melancholy music) That man you were looking for goes by Sam Regal. A cop, until about a year ago when he up and leaves the force. Stopping by the station later with the brand box you were looking for. Gonna give testimony. - [Roscoe] And how might one find this detective agency? - The shop is on Ninth and Columbus, called Regal Investigations. Anything else you need? - Nope. That'll be just fine. Thank you. My brother. (ominous music) 