 ( indistinct chatter) - Hello CRC! Got an appointment for clean up. Hello? Hello? We have an appointment. - I think she's dead. - I hope not man. Somebody gotta sign for this. - Can you start in the other rooms? Good morning star shine. Sorry we're late. Let's get some light in here. That's better. You 'bout ready? Can you hear me? I know you can hear me. Your TSS is on. Come on, up and at 'em. Let's go. Pronto. Chop chop. What have you got there? Let's not do this now. Not now OK? - (mechanical voice) Dan? Is that you Dan? - It's Simon. Simon. - I was not talking to you. - No no. No more domestic android nurse. You don't need your meds anymore. You know what today is right? We talked about it. Just last night. So it... Mom we gotta go Mom you don't have a cat. I'll tell them to leave a dish out for it anyway. Okay? You should have sold like, 10 years ago you know? Got a condo in Bolca you could have. Woah! Supersonic. Over here. - It was yours too and his remember? - Yo! A little help here with my mom. I don't think I can do it alone. - Well that about does it man, as for the rest of the house - Yeah I know it's a lot of stuff. I have no idea. Do something. - That works for me. - Yeah okay. - [Simon] Thanks pal. You ready Mom? I'm ready. Let's go. (mechanical whirring) - Slow down. Such a hurry to get rid of me. - I'm not getting rid of you. I'm moving you. It's not the same thing. - I don't want to be here. - Well Mom this isn't fun for me either. You know, Phil's in court, Melissa's..... Well who the hell knows but uh, well... Stuck with me for a few hours. Sorry about that. But it could be worse. Like that Florida trip where Phil kept ripping 'em in the backseat and Dad wouldn't roll down the windows because of the rain. Mom you remember that? - You're going to kill me. - Jesus H. Christ! Will you stop! I am under the frigging speed limit. - Just kill me Simon. - Just don't say that okay? Stop being difficult because that sterling sense of humor doesn't translate through that synthesizer. Nobody's dying. It's costing me a small fortune just to make sure of that. - Your father would never approve. - And if Gateway were around when he left he could tell me that himself. (synthesized music) (Speaking in Chinese) - What the hell is she saying? - She's come to help us move you in Mom. - Oh I'm sorry I didn't realize that she didn't understand what I was saying. - No she had a stroke two years ago. - Three years. It was three. - She lost 99% of her motor skills but she's vicious with that 1%. - You flirt too much. - Like father like son. - No wonder Betty left you. - She didn't leave me. I left her. Remember? - We'll just be taking a left down to the doors Mrs. Ender. You know before our Gateway operated this building it used to be a treatment facility. Of course that was before the Big Spill. She's going to go this way 'cause our check-in terminal is in the south annex. She's gonna go straight ahead. - I'm not going anywhere. - That's fine Mrs. Ender. Your son and I can handle the boring formalities. You just relax, maybe get to know some of your new neighbors - Oh, simple organized, friendly. So you like it here right? - No. Too many old people. - Don't move. I'll be right back. Just like that. - [Nurse] She'll be fine. (indistinct chatter) - [Announcement] Hello You are part of a very special demographic entirely new to man-kind. You are a Centure. It is no secret that the rapid growth of centurians creates unique challenges for modern society. Over population, food, and health care shortages all repercussions of life extension technology. In addition, the painful deterioration that is aging has yet to be solved by the medical community. Enter Gateway Transcare. This premier transfer treatment center offer our residents all the amenities of an analog life while maintaining a zero carbon footprint and messy hassles of physical deterioration are left where they should be, in the past. Gateway Transcare.Your bridge to a better world. - Gotta love our healthcare system - [Announcement] Let your memories take you there. - Ender...aha Ender! Okay, I see your going with our Horizon package. It's a smart choice but have you considered upgrading? - What wrong with a Horizon? - Nada. Certainly our most popular. Two parabytes of storage and nanomesh chastity with 64,000 rpm. That's a sweet little ride but you'll be settling on our basic software installation. It's all she can handle. - What does basic software entail? - Well it's a programmed experience based on a single event from mom's life. Let's say she spent a summer on the coast as a kid or went backpacking in Spain after college, her happiest memory in life. We make it happen. - I'm sorry hold on. There's nothing in your brochure that speaks about her being stuck in a isolated moment. - That's because she's not. It's just the trigger to associate all memories with the one's she'll make inside. Let me break it down. Out here in the terrestrial world communication with others is key to our growing consciousness. We're made up of a collection of experiences. Same goes for residents on our basic plan. Only catch, it can be a lot of leg work for friends and family. You have to visit on a regular basis gotta maintain constant stimulation to mom's brain waves for her to have a satisfactory existence. - What do you think Mom? You want to fall in love with Dad again? Spend time with Aunt Fran or Uncle Glenn? Where do you want to go? She used to remember days like nobody's business. - We found sometimes that it's easier for someone close a family member to select an event. Especially in cases where the patient suffers.... - Stop acting like I'm not here! I remember.... - Really? When was I born? What's my name? What's your name? Do you remember that? You ignored the stroke but you cannot ignore this. You cannot take care of yourself anymore. - Then Larry will take care of me. - Goddammit! Dad is dead! I'm sorry. - You could take care of me. - Doesn't have to be grammatically correct or written like Shakespeare just specific and honest. The more detail the more our programs have to work with so take your time, choose a moment. - Let's talk premium plans. Can she experience multiple memories? - We offer several tiers. Ranging from 2 to 20 events depending on drive capacity. And then there's the unlimited package. Imagine accessing any memory from your life. Every experience. Even those blocked out or forgotten we can restore with our advanced recall rendering software. Now I'll be honest it's not cheap requiring our largest storage units 6 zetabytes but really, can you put a price tag on mom's happiness? With unlimited there's no worry. Once you step out that door you'll do so with confidence. She'll be taken care of for years to come. Fantastic. Let's get you started. - You know I think we made the right decision. I know we did. Yeah. And don't worry about the money. I got that covered. And we could visit. I promise. Anytime okay? I'm gonna make time. And I know Patrick and Shauna they're gonna want to see their gran. It's gonna be like everyday is Mother's Day. - You forgot this time. Not me. You forgot me. You can't remember a single time when I was happy. We used to be happy. Remember? Simon? We're ready for you Mrs. Ender. This way. - Caution. Authorized visitor now entering download morgue station. All surgeons and technical advisors please continue standard operating procedures until patient is completely transferred. - Where's her TSS? - Sorry no electronics. They can corrupt the procedure. Systems check. Let's get started. (electric noise) - What was that? What are you doing to her? - Calm down. It's just the bio poles.Everything is going to be fine. Congratulations. She's transferred. She's uploading to our central main frame. In 20 minutes you can reconnect via your personal viewing pod. - [Announcement] Welcome to Gateway Transcare automated visitation. Please respect our (inaudible) (synthesized music) - I'll always remember Simon. I'll never forget. 