 -You run quite the establishment here. I've also been told you have quite the menu -I believe you'll find our product to be some of the best in the city We are fully equipped to placate your every desire. Whatever your pleasure may be, our Betty's are fully customized. -That's all well and good ma'am, but this ain't my first rodeo. I've had my share of Betty's. I think I'm ready to cross the street if you take my meaning -I think I'm beginning to understand -You see I've grown quite bored with this one. Last year's model. But he does like to watch Don't you Carl? Who knows, you might learn a thing or two. Is that going to cost me extra? -We do have one that meets your requirements Mr. Regal but unfortunately he is currently with another customer -Well I've got nowhere to be. I like 'em warmed-up -Well then please make yourselves comfortable. I'll come get you when the time is ready -Thank you  -Thank you ma'am -Alright let's get down to business. I bet that customer is our girl Madeline -I like to watch  -Don't you? Come on, I improvised. I don't have a position for or against on the subject of watching -Live a little Carl. We got our lead, didn't we?  You got any ideas about which room they're in? -They're on the second floor.  Approximately 15 feet above us -How do you know that?  -I can hear them -Over all this racket? -Not the full details of their conversation. I would have to get closer to make out what they are saying -Well I'll cover you from the stairs. Go in and take a closer look. We'll need everything you can get. -Are you recording? -Constantly -Not here not like this. Let's run away together just us. I'd leave him for you David I would. Just say the word -Oh David. Do it so Henry can hear me. I want him to hear me cry out -For God's sake I can't believe this. I wasn't..this is.. -Your wife's been heading over to the Neon Rose under the name Dorothy Wells Wasn't hard to find her. Not many places got models to serve women. She visits this particular David fellow once or twice a week -Makes my skin crawl I've been made a fool of by this goddamn hat rack -Well we're all fools one way or the other Mr. Avery. I wouldn't beat yourself up too much over it -Can these damned things even love a woman? -Carl you want to field that one? -I'm very sorry Mr. Avery -What do you intend to do about this, if you don't mind me asking -The hell do you care?  -I just deliver this kind of news on the regular Some men take a hard situation, find a way to make it worse -Your job is to film people screwing with your pervert mannequin here Detective Regal, you are a pornographer at best. I will keep my own moral counsel thank you very much My assistant Leroy will deliver you your fee on your way out -Mr. Avery. Come on Carl, we don't want to overstay our welcome Thanks Charlie Here's to one more month of keeping the lights on. Cheers pal What's the matter, you don't feel like celebrating? -I can't help but consider the information we gave Mr. Avery -Carl  -I fear it will cause him to do something reprehensible -We talked about this  -Are we doing the right thing, Sam? -We ain't cops anymore, Carl. As far as we're concerned, we did a semi honest job for some honest pay and that's that. We start taking the moral high ground in our cases would be out on the streets within a week. So Mr. Avery can reprehend all the live long day if he wants to. It's no skin off our nose -Who are you trying to convince, detective? -Hell if I know -Get your morning paper. Morning news.   Read all about it. Morning paper ma'am? Get your morning paper. Morning News. Read all about it. Hey mister how about a paper? -No thanks kid, I got enough problems without reading.. On second thought, keep the change -Thanks mister -You see the paper, Carl? Oh -Detective Regal. You remember Verna from the Neon Rose She was very insistent. -I'm sorry I didn't realize we had company. Otherwise I would have worn my... First ones on the house lady.  The next one's gonna cost you -I need your help -You got a funny way of asking.  Did you have some of Carl's coffee? -That was for the hood winking you pulled coming into my establishment under false pretenses -I should have known you are up to no good -We even now? -We haven't much time we must act quickly -Somebody want to fill me in? -There's been a situation at the Neon Rose -What do you mean situation? God damn it God damn it all to hell 