 Hi my name is Dr. Whitny Braun and I am  the host and one of the executive producers   of Undiscovered: The Lost  Lincoln on Discovery Channel. Hi, my name is Jason Cohen. I  am the director and one of the   executive producers of The Lost  Lincoln on Discovery Channel. I am staring at a picture  that just shouldn't exist. They took an illicit image  of the dead presidents body. I have to find out if it's real. The Lost Lincoln, Sunday, October 4 at 9.00, part  of Undiscovered, the new series on Discovery. That is the trailer for the Discovery  Channel documentary, The Lost Lincoln   and this is Factual America. We're  brought to you by Alamo pictures,   a production company that makes documentaries  about America for an international audience. Considered by many to be America's greatest  leader, and one of the most beloved presidents   in history, there are only 130 known  images of Abraham Lincoln on record.   Credited with ending slavery and leading the  nation out of one of its darkest periods,   Lincoln's life and legacy were cut short that  fateful night at Ford's Theater in 1865. Today,   only limited items and a selection of known and  verified photographs remain of the 16th President.   But is it possible another image exists? One that  was taken of the President in secret after he was   shot, and has remained hidden for more than  150 years. We found out as we caught up with   the filmmakers behind The Lost Lincoln, Whitny  Braun and award winning director, Jason Cohen.   Whitny Braun and Jason Cohen, welcome to Factual  America. Whitney, how are things with you? They are excellent. I mean, as well as can be,   considering the fact that we're  quarantining in my childhood bedroom. I think we're all back under quarantine. I am  here in the UK. And Jason, how about yourself? You know, about the same, I think  we're all adjusting and hoping   to get through this sooner than later. But  I'm glad to be able to talk to you today. Well, indeed, glad to have you on. The film  is The Lost Lincoln from Mark Wahlberg studio   Unrealistic Ideas, Discovery Channel, came out  in early October. It kicks off the Undiscovered   series on the Discovery Channel. And I believe  international release is set for December 20th,   for many of our listeners who are international.  So, Whitny and Jason, thank you so much for coming   on. It's really great to have you here. Let's  just sort of cut to the chase. And Jason, I'll   go to you as the director, I mean, we've had the  cold open the trailer. But for those who are maybe   distracted or making a cup of tea or something,  what is the, what's the synopsis of this film? The Lost Lincoln is an investigation to look at  the veracity of a undiscovered photo, allegedly,   of Abraham Lincoln, on his deathbed. And the  film, through Whitny, takes us on an investigation   to understand whether this photo   is authentic. And Whitny as a professional  authenticator is the perfect person to do that. Indeed, and I think, Whitney, so first of  all, authenticator, I mean, I'll channel   my geeky self here, I think you've got the  coolest job in the world. I told my 16 year   old daughter about it. And she agrees. You get to  research, I mean, you get paid to research and to   authenticate whether historical items  are legitimate or not. Is that right? Yeah. I mean, I guess it comes from three  sources. As a child, I grew up working in my   dad's gun shop, and people would bring in, you  know, old firearms and say was this, you know,   Davy Crockett's Flintlock? Or was this, you know,  and so and so. I loved watching Antiques Roadshow,   and I loved Forensic Files. So you  kind of, you know, merge those things   together and try to figure out if you can use  processes of deductive reasoning to determine   if something is authentic. And I think  the thing to remember is, you can never   100% say something is something, you just can't  prove that it can't exist, you know. And so you   try to just basically build up a preponderance  of evidence, excuse me, I just stumbled over that   word. You just try to build up a preponderance  of evidence, you know, and try to see if there is   anything that would make it impossible for it  to exist and that's just, that's the thrill   of it for me, you know, trying to find out  if there's anything that says it can't be. Do you have an area that you specialize, is  there a period of American history or anything? Well, not a particular period of American history.  I mean, like, I had mentioned, I grew up the   daughter of a gunsmith and my dad is featured  in the documentary. And so, I would say Western   firearms, Civil War firearms, you know, that  was kind of where I cut my teeth. But it really   doesn't matter the object, right. I mean, it's the  same process of looking through old documents and   trying to establish a chain of custody and doing,  you know, running an object through a series of   litmus tests. So, yeah, I cut my teeth in American  Western history, but I love to look into anything. May I ask, I mean, because I've seen the  film. In this role as an authenticator,   what's the success rate, if you will? I  mean, are you debunking things all the time? Very low. The success rate is very, very low. And  I say this not to demean anyone who brings in an   object that they think, you know,  may have historic significance, but   it's very common for someone to go to a yard sale  and find a picture of somebody wearing a cowboy   hat and go, Hey, I'm pretty sure this is, you  know, this is historically significant figure or,   you know, find a picture of somebody wearing  a top hat and immediately assume it's Lincoln.   So I would say, it's like less than 1%, that  actually pans out. You know, it's a lot of   disappointment, frankly. So that's  why when you do find something that   basically passed, when you do find something that  passes muster, it's just cause for celebration,   and why making this film was just  so exciting and such an adventure. Well, and then, in that vein, so specifically  what we're talking about on this podcast,   what happened? The collector came to you  basically saying they had this object   and wanted you to do your job, which is to  authenticate it. And what was your reaction   when you heard about it and saw it? Sure. So, being completely frank, when I first  heard about it, it was via phone call. So I got   a call from a gentleman who says, hey, I've got a  picture taken of Abraham Lincoln, after he's dead,   but he's still in the Peterson house. And my  initial reaction was, yeah, yeah, sure. And I   almost didn't follow up with it. I'll be frank,  I almost didn't follow up on it. Because it just   seemed, you know, a little too far fetched.  But I do kind of a rule with myself that you   just never know, right. The strangest things  are found in the most unexpected places. So   I did return the phone call. And I did talk  with him. And he started mentioning things,   that the average person that might find  an object at a yard sale and come to you   wouldn't know. He said, Well, you know, it  was believed it have been taken by the Ulke   brothers. And he started laying out certain little  factoids that you kinda just go, wait a second,   right? That just piques your curiosity. And so  I said, well, can I see it? Because I can't do   anything with just a verbal description.  And so when I saw it, for the first time,   I think my, I'm not exaggerating, I think  my heart kind of skipped a beat. Because A)   whether you think this image is of Lincoln or  not, right, so the first point is whether you   think it's Lincoln or not, it's a very startling  image. It's a very startling image. And it's   very obviously a 19th century image of the  dead. And those are always kind of, you know,   stark and startling. And then you start  analyzing the features. And so immediately,   my gut said, there's something  here, but the scientific mind goes,   we can't make that leap yet, you know,  and so that's the investigation commences. I think that's a good point. You've gracefully  shared some clips with us. And there's one that   I think nicely sums up, now that we've gotten to  this point, the authentication process that you go   through with any object, whether it's a photo  of Lincoln or not. So we've put that in here.   We'll have a listen to that, or for those on  YouTube, watch it, and then we'll come back. Abraham Lincoln, probably our greatest president,   represents to me one making the  ultimate sacrifice for their country. Abraham Lincoln was a great leader at the  moment of the nation's greatest crisis. He ended slavery, and he  had won that horrible war. The idea that there might be a photograph  of Abraham Lincoln after he was shot   in the world of authentication, that is like  finding the Holy Grail. This image has the power   to expose a tragic, dark and gruesome hour in  American history. I have to find out if it's real.   I'm going to conduct an authentication of the  alleged Lincoln image to prove if it is, in fact,   Lincoln, I'll investigate three areas. Provenance  - provenance is a fancy way of saying Chain of   Custody. Is there a clear Chain of Custody linking  the night of the assassination to Larry Davis?   Forensics - can it be scientifically proven  that the man in the alleged Lincoln image   is the 16th President of the United States?  Timeline - I will examine the timeline of   the night Lincoln died to get a minute by minute  account of April 14 1865. Was there a window of   opportunity in which a photo could have been taken  after Lincoln was shot? To find out I'm going to   the scene of the most infamous assassination  in American history - Ford's Theater. Okay, I think that's, I thought that was really  and it's the three strains of the film, obviously,   what you discussed. Provenance, forensics and  timeline to try to determine whether an object,   in this particular case, a previously unknown  photo of 16th US President, Abraham Lincoln,   whether it's, well, whether it could possibly  be real. So one thing that came to my mind,   and Jason we'll get you in here shortly, but  when did you, Whitny, when did you know you had   a doc on your hands? Because obviously this takes  some time, and you had to be filmed doing this. Well, actually, just a little bit of backstory,  we were looking at making a show that was looking   at items of potentially far less significance.  You know, of other items that people had found.   And then the timing just happened to  coincide with this image crossing my   path. And so I spoke to one of our executive  producers, Archie Gips, and I said, Archie,   you know, we got to see this picture. And Archie  kind of felt the same way that I did, you know,   his heart skipped a beat. And then we were just  committed to telling this story. And whatever   the outcome was, we were still committed, because  it's such an interesting image, that we went into   it saying, hey, whatever the outcome it's going to  be interesting, regardless. And it's fun to take   people on the journey of how do you authenticate  or debunk something. And then we said, we need to,   you know, get this in the hands of someone who  can really craft this as a little bit of like a   true crime story, right, of sifting through the  evidence. And then Jason was just the perfect   person. And so we formed a team and it just,  it just happened that way. I mean, it was just   truly perfect timing on kind of all fronts  that all of us were able to come together. And Jason, what did you think when  you first got approached about this? Yeah. So you know, executive  producers, Archie Gips,   and Paul Sadowski, who deserves a lot of  credit, who really drove a lot of this,   the narrative and the story on this. They came  to me, and to be honest, my first meeting, I took   the meeting, I was a little, I'll be honest,  I was a little skeptical. It's not a type of   film I really done in this genre specifically, but  I do like good stories and storytelling. And in my   first meeting, I did get to see a digital copy  of the image, signed the NDA and all that stuff. We may talk about that later, but anyway. Similarly, similarly to what Whitney said, I was  fascinated. I mean, honestly I was a bit hooked.   I wanted to know more. So what better way to  know more than to go make a film about it. So   I decided I wanted to be along that journey as  we sort of peel back the layers and figure out   what is the story behind this image and  ultimately trying to figure out if it's authentic? I completely agree, having seen the film, I  mean, you do take us on an incredible journey   which however you come out, which either side you  come out on this, I think is well worth taking.   And speaking of the journey, you know,  Whitney and Jason, so you have this,   what was it about two years, this search. You  make it look easy, but was it really that easy?   You must have gone down a lot of rabbit holes,  dead ends that we don't see necessarily on camera. Yeah, this was not easy. And I think, you  know, aged me quite a few years. So there's,   two sides to this. There's the absolute stress of,  you know, trying to find information that simply   may have been destroyed over the last 150 years.  So I have this sort of obsession with wanting to   know the details and filling in the details. And  it just kills me when there's just nothing to go   to, right. There's no way to find information,  there's nothing to know. And so this was quite   difficult because this information was out there.  But you had to go through a lot of old documentary   evidence. You had to go talk to people and just  compile all this information. And it was, yeah,   it was definitely an uphill battle. I mean,  just as simple as, as simple as trying to   find old letters that people wrote back and forth  to each other to verify conversations that people   alleged that they had. So there's a lot actually  that didn't make it in the documentary that   was just part of piecing this whole story  together to make sure that it held water. Yeah. And, maybe we'll talk a little bit more  about this, and we're going to shortly take a   bit of an early break. But everyone you have  on camera, some raise some doubts, things like   that. But did you have anybody that was just Nah,  that's absolutely, I don't see how this could be. Yeah, I mean, I think we had a  mix. I think we had people who,   even if they were skeptical, they  still could see something in there   that might push you one way or the other. And they  at least understood why this possibly held some   water and it could be authenticated, even if they  strongly inside felt like it wasn't, it's not.   You know, and I think that was part of this  process. And sort of a little bit back to what   Whitny was talking about of sort of, you know,  we got curveballs along the way. And this was   an active investigation. And that was for the  filmmakers, for us, our goal was to be a fly   on the wall of Whitney out, documenting this and  trying to do her work, and for us to follow along.   And we would get thrown curveballs where  somebody would debunk something or confirm   something. And that forced us to go chase  down a different lead or a different person,   go to a different venue, figure out another  expert that could weigh in on something that   we just learned in our trip to Washington DC.  So, you know, it was sort of a little bit all   over the map, I guess, for lack of a better  term. Our travel was all over the map. But   there were people that sort of pushed us in  different directions. And our job was to try   to investigate those as fully as we could. And  obviously, you know, Whitny has done this before,   so she understood about the provenance and  the forensics and the timeline and trying to   investigate each of those in each turn that it  took based on the people that we were talking to. No, go ahead. I just wanted to say, you know, something  that's difficult when you're dealing with   a figure like Abraham Lincoln, when you're  showing people an image, is that the image   that we're working with is believed, we pose it  in the film, that it is believed to be taken,   image taken of Abraham Lincoln, following his  death, but you know, his eyes are still open.   And that's very characteristic of 19th century  Memorial photography. But it is an image that,   to the 21st century eye, is quite,  potentially quite macabre or off-putting.   And also it's a person in death. So whether  you are a fan of Lincoln, the president,   the man or not, you tend to see Lincoln as he's  depicted in our memorials and on the $5 bill   and so you have a picture of Lincoln, you know,  the rail splitter. Lincoln, the strong uniter of   the nation. But this is a picture of someone  at their most, you know, fragile state. This   is a picture of somebody in death. And I think  some of the people that we showed the image to,   they wouldn't necessarily question all the  historical facts, they'd just go - I don't see it,   that doesn't look like him. And what it reminds  me of sometimes is when you're in a funeral home,   and you see someone in the casket, they don't  look like you knew them in life. And I think   this picture posed a particular challenge,  because most pictures that I have investigated,   okay, all actually, prior to this, all pictures  that I investigated depicted a person in life.   And you don't realize how much is captured  in a person's eyes when they're alive.   And how much that changes when the  life goes out of them. So I think   that was a unique aspect of this investigation  that I'd never encountered before. I think you raised some very interesting points  and answered even a few questions I was going to   ask about this. And I think, let's hold those  thoughts because I think you raised some very   interesting points about 21st versus 19th century  attitudes and things like that. But in the   meantime, let's, for our listeners, let's take a  quick break, a little bit of an early break and a   pause for a word from our sponsor. So hold tight,  and we'll be back shortly with Whitny, and Jason. You're listening to Factual America. Subscribe  to our mailing list, or follow us on Facebook,   Instagram, or Twitter at Alamo pictures  to keep up to date with new releases   or upcoming shows. Check out the show  notes to learn more about the program,   our guests and the team behind the  production. Now back to Factual America. Welcome back to Factual America. I'm here with  Whitny Braun. And Jason Cohen, both executive   producers. Jason is the director and Whitny is  the host, the presenter of The Lost Lincoln,   out on discovery in the US and in the  rest of the world by end of December.   Before the break, we were talking about this image  and, if I may say personally and as an American,   I mean, I've been living in the UK for a  while, but I am an American, a US citizen,   born and raised. I found it difficult to, so  we do see the image, for everyone out there,   you do see the image in the doc. I found it  difficult. And I think you've already said it was   partly because it's an image of a dead person with  the eyes open. Maybe that was part of it. I mean,   for me, I think like you say, we have all these  images of Abraham Lincoln. And to see that was,   the first few times you put it on screen, I must  say I found it difficult to look at and to watch.   For whatever reason, whatever my sort  of hang ups are. Although you answered   one of my questions ahead. Because I did think  about this. If you go to a funeral home and see   how someone looks in death versus how they  looked in life, which I think raises an   interesting point because you do, Whitney, I  know your day job is a professor, isn't it? Yeah. I'm sorry, I just talked over you. So yeah,   my day job is I'm the director of the Master's  program in bioethics. I'm a clinical bioethicist. But you also know some things about death  rituals and this sort of thing. Is that right? Yeah. So I did my doctoral dissertation work  on the Jain ritual of Sallekhana, which is a   voluntary fasting, where the practitioner decides  to give up all worldly possessions and slowly wean   themselves off of consuming other life forms,  which results in very gradual, slow starvation.   And so yeah, from my time in India, and my time  working in hospital, I started out my career as a   paramedic, I'm not unfamiliar with the deceased.  And so I think when I first saw this picture,   I was able to look at it and see what mattered,  which was, you know, the facial features the   elements of a person that don't change.  Because I do know, I mean, we always say   this to med students, right? You just can tell  when the patient's dead, you don't have to take   the pulse. There's something that happens when a  person dies, and the light goes out of their eyes,   the face changes. And so when I saw that picture,  I immediately went, Oh, my gosh, this, I see,   you know, the facial features of Lincoln minus  the essence of the man. And I've seen that with   many other people over the years. And so I  think maybe my first time seeing it might   have been a reaction that was different than  another person seeing it for the first time. I think that's something, since  we're talking about it, what it,   because in your research, you were noting, I liked  this comment you captured in the film, Jason,   as well about, you're at the National Archives.  And I used to live in Washington DC and I've   done research at the National Archives and the  Library of Congress. But you've got access that   people like me would have dreamed have had. But  not to let previous reporting lead you astray,   I think was the essence of what you were talking  about with the guy from the Marshal's office. And   what do you see? How have attitudes towards death   between then and now changed? I think that's part  of, a sort of a side story to this, isn't it? Yeah. I think the differences between how we  view death today and the way death was viewed in   1865 America, can't be overstated. I mean,  you can hear about things such as, like we   call a living room, in our house, a living room,  because once upon a time when people died at home,   you displayed the body in the casket  in the front window of the house. So,   you know, I'm thinking of other examples of today,  like over 98% of Americans die in the hospital.   But 75 years ago, most Americans and I  think this is true for most of the world,   most people died in their bed at their home.  And so people lived with death. And like,   as much as we are reeling and hurting from all  the people that we have lost because of COVID,   I think it's more traumatic for us today, because  we're so unaccustomed to living with death.   When in 1865, when this photo was taken,  infectious disease was the number one killer.   So I think, you know, I could go on for days. And  I'm sure Jason can speak to this as well. I mean,   Jason's wife is a physician. And Jason knows well,  you know, how people have come to regard death   as a very foreign entity, as opposed to  something that lives alongside them day by day. It's interesting. Go ahead, Jason. Yeah, I was just going to add, I think beyond how  we view death, then and now, the one thing that   was always coming to the surface on this, and I  think you hit on it a little bit there at that   scene at the National Archives, is that we were  dealing with, arguably the most revered president   in US history. And one of the most revered  people in US history. And that instantly is   going to bring more scrutiny. And we knew that. So  no matter what we said, and when you put a picture   of someone who's that reverential out  there in this, you know, compromised   state, it's going to bring strong  opinions. So beyond what you think of   how people think of death then and now, add to  that, who we're putting out there and telling you   that this person who you've grown up as school  kids knowing Honest Abe and what he stands for,   now we're telling you look at this, you  know, unfortunately macabre picture of him. Maybe, I have no problems talking about  death. But maybe let's bring this back to,   and I'll take the responsibility for  going down a bit of a tangent here. But   one thing that you do show, because I've  mentioned this to a few people in passing,   they were like, hold on, the old days, how  would they have, how would they have done   this? But you do, Whitny, you show that this,  certainly the timeline is possible, isn't it? Yeah. The timeline is absolutely possible,  which we didn't go into the documentary and   the research, thinking that necessarily. I mean,  that was really a question we needed answered.   And the only way we could answer that was to  get Mark Osterman and France Osterman, who are   undeniably the leading experts in collodion  photography in the world to essentially   replicate the process. And they explained that  the camera is actually quite small and light,   if you prep the plate, and, you know, Washington  DC was quite humid in April so that the collodion   mixture on the glass plate would stay in  the appropriate solution on the glass plate,   pop it in, take the lens cap off, you get the  exposure from the natural light coming in through   the window, you could do that. And given the  proximity of the Ulke's to the scene, you know,   where the photo was taken. And also simply the  fact that we know they took other pictures,   right? We don't have to argue that fact,  we know that they had a camera in the room.   You know that's what, you know, I think was  initially going to feel like the biggest   challenge but what turned out in the end, oh it's  actually a much simpler process than I realized. I think just for listeners who may  not know, not everyone on this,   you know, I'm just going to say, and having lived  in Washington, if you ever go visit Washington,   I highly recommend going to Ford's Theater.  It's sometimes off the beaten track a bit   for some tourists but basically Lincoln is shot at  Ford's Theatre, taken over to the Peterson house.   By pure coincidence, one of those pure  coincidences that we often see in history,   the Ulke brothers board there. And Henry becomes,  or I don't know if he was yet known at that point,   as a painter of presidents, isn't he? And  then we have a clip about the Ulke brothers,   but maybe give us a little background on  how this could have even been possible. Sure. So the Ulke brothers were two very prominent  photographers slash journalists slash scientists   actually living in the DC area in the 1860s.  They actually worked at the Smithsonian.   They were quite famous for pioneering  microscopic photographic techniques of beatles.   So they were really, really, truly kind of in  the vanguard, right of early photographers.   And they coincidentally were renting a room that  was directly above the room in the Peterson house   where Lincoln was brought. And because of their  physical presence in the room or in the building,   they got, in essence, conscripted into service  as almost like orderlies to spend the entire   night running back and forth, bringing linens,  boiling water. So they had full access. And then   the next morning, we were able to determine this  through again, contemporary documentary evidence.   We know for example, Henry Ulke is seen leaving  the Peterson House about seven that morning. We   know he comes back, because he takes the known  photos, right? The known photos of the empty bed.   Where did he go? I often wonder. I think maybe he  went to get a camera. I don't know that for sure.   But we know a camera ends up in the room. We know  that they had access to the room through a back   stairwell. And we know that they were adept,  and we show this in the documentary, at making   ambrotypes, which is the specific type of glass  plate image that we're dealing with in the story. Okay. Well, let's listen to that clip now. And  we'll be back very shortly with Whitny and Jason. So we know quite a few things, actually, about  the Ulke brothers. We know that they took a photo   of the empty room after Lincoln had  passed and everyone had cleared out.   We also know that they lived directly upstairs.   So as the timeline goes, the President's  body is removed at approximately what time? That would be at about 9.30. When approximately did the  Ulkes take their photographs? Well, the deathbed photo would have  had to be taken some time after 930. And that picture isn't seen by the public  until the 1960s, almost 100 years later. Yes. Henry, in 1891 told the newspapers that it  was never a photo taken inside Peterson house. Why would Henry Ulke have denied that there were  any photos taken inside of the Peterson house,   when we know for a fact that they at least  took two of the empty bed in that room?   Is it possible they took another  image of the dead president   between 722 and the 930 on  the morning of April 15 1865. Okay, I think that gets to the timeline question.  Now, we're not going to go hash this out.   This is a documentary that everyone I highly  recommend. I think you've, my credit to you,   I think you've set it up very well. Like you  say, it's capturing a journey, but I think   you certainly lay out the arguments very well. And  so I don't think we need to, if you don't mind,   I don't think we need to necessarily rehash those  here. I just recommend listeners go watch it. But   Whitny, are you, not to give anything away, no  spoiler alerts, but are you in a position to say,   at least on this podcast, are you  able to say what your conclusions are? Yeah, absolutely. So this is the  conclusion that I have arrived at.   Scientifically speaking, there is no  piece of evidence that we came across   that made it impossible for this picture to  exist, right? There was nothing that contradicted   that there was a window of opportunity for the  photo to be taken, qualified people there to   take the photo, and then a provenance or chain  of custody that made sense. Then if we throw in   the physical evidence, the forensics, you know,  the glass plate matches an mid 1860s vintage,   the facial mapping on the face matches known  anomalies in the skin of Abraham Lincoln.   For me, there's nothing to say it can't be. So at  that point, given the preponderance of evidence,   I have to, you know, basically rely on Occam's  razor here, right, that all things considered,   the simplest explanation is the most  likely. You have a photo of a man that is   either Abraham Lincoln or his identical  twin. But if he's his identical twin,   which we have no record of, he's also been shot  and suffered a head wound that is consistent with   the autopsy report of Abraham Lincoln. And that  there would be, in my opinion, statistically,   too many coincidences for this to be anyone other  than Abraham Lincoln. So, at the end of the day,   I arrive at the belief that it is Abraham Lincoln.  That being said, the world is full of surprises   and possibilities. And you know, you can never say  anything is 100% certain, right? I can't prove the   existence of God. I just can't prove that God  doesn't exist. Subs borrow from Kant there. But   that's, that's essentially what this is, rght? We  can never 1 billion % prove that this is Lincoln.   But we can't prove that it's not and with  all the factors that we have on the table   to consider what plausible scenario is there that  it's not? So that's kind of where I stand on it. Okay. Jason, are you of a similar view? I mean, I feel like our goal with the film is to  present all this evidence that we came across,   put it out there, and let the audience make  their own informed decision based on watching   Whitny do this investigation, hear from all  the experts we talked to, look at all the   evidence that's been put together. I like  Whitny agree that we can't ever say without   certainty whether it is or isn't. But I think  that our goal is to put it all out there   to have the viewer make as an informed decision as  they can about. And some people will never believe   it. And some people will. I mean, and that's the  society we live in. And that's not a bad thing. Yeah, well, indeed. And I think,  just maybe a final point on that is,   maybe something we can talk about later about  people gaining access, eventually to the actual   ambrotype photo on a glass plate. But are there  now moves afoot by scholars to maybe look at,   based on the work you all have done, at trying  to maybe, you know? There's always going to be   skeptics, like you said. I won't even share  what my view is, given what you've just said,   because I think that's a perfect way of leaving  it. But, you know, are there moves afoot? I mean,   you had some scholars come on, some leading  scholars, Lincoln scholars. So are there,   I guess you must have people beating  down your door, or whoever has the image,   wanting to get their, get their hands on this. Well, I can see this. Since the documentary  aired in the US, actually, my email mailbox   at the university got over 1000 emails in one  week and actually clogged up my inbox. My students   weren't really thrilled about that. With people  asking questions and posing their objections,   I mean, but this is what I will say about it. It  was completely civil. And I have to say, in our   society, I was expecting an onslaught of like  name calling, and who do you think you are? And   how dare you? None of that. I got really gracious  emails from people saying, you know, I don't agree   with you, because the nose doesn't look right to  me. Or, you know, I don't agree to you, because   I don't agree with you, because I just don't  think that they would have taken a picture of   the President. I just don't think they would have,  it would have been shame for. But no one has been   rude. Everybody's been incredibly gracious. And  I'll say this, that I feel like people had fun   watching the show, and are still having fun  in the treasure hunt, of trying to find other   evidence. Because I'm getting people who sent  me like newspaper clippings saying, hey, there   was a person allegedly showing a picture of dead  Abraham Lincoln in this newspaper clipping from   1954. But I don't know if it's the same picture.  Do you think it could be the same picture?   So yeah, there's a bunch of, I would say amateur  investigators looking at it. I have no idea   about the scholarly community. I only know who's  reached out to me via email. And there's a ton of   citizen investigators out there who seemingly  are having a great time looking into this. Well, I think you've restored my faith in a  fellow man, actually. And it's great to hear,   especially at times like these that and,  maybe it's being removed by 150 years, though,   that hasn't necessarily proved the case on other  issues. Jason, I think you've already said how you   got involved. You got approached about making  this as a filmmaker. And I think we've talked   a little bit about, you gave, I guess, Paul  Sadowski quite a shout out but how did you   decide to tell this story structure, I  mean - presenter lead versus narration.   You put Whitny in front of the  camera. How did you go about that? Yeah, well, I think from the outset, we  knew we didn't want to use a narrator.   This story is, ultimately it's a bit of Whitny's  personal journey. So we wanted it to be her voice   and I, myself never refer to Whitny as a host or  presenter. She's an investigator on her journey.   She's our guide. She's guiding the audience  along. But I don't like to refer to her in   the traditional sense of a host who's there to  tell the audience what to think. Rather, we are   there watching her do her work, and then you take  from it what you will, instead of her telling you,   what exactly, how to look at something, or  how to go forward with something. So yeah,   the intention was always that this is a personal  journey and we are along for the ride. And that   was, you know, the whole team, Paul, and Archie  Gips, other executive producers, you know,   from the get go, we were intent on that and  wanted it to feel that way. Where you're sort of   brought into it, and you're along for the  ride with her and an active part of it,   as opposed to just being told what's going on.  And that's why we wanted to be there when she   meets with these people the first time. The  first time she walks into the Ford's Theater,   you know, that reaction of, you talked about it,  I got it, walking into the National Archives. And   that raw emotion of actually going to these  places, and it is, you do feel it when you're   there. I felt it when I was there. It was, you  know, one of the cool, cool aspects of this film   was being able to go to these iconic places,  and really understanding what it was all about. Yeah. And you would agree, I thought,  Whitny's a natural in front of the camera. I surely agree. Yeah, she was great. When I told  people she had never really done this before   they were surprised. So Whitny did a great  job. She got so used to us, you know, kind   of hanging around. We usually had two or three  cameras, following her wherever she went. And,   you know, she really was a prone  and fell into it and got used to it. Not to put words in your mouth, but would you  say, as a documentarian, that if you're following   someone who's truly passionate, knowledgeable  about their subject, they're going to be,   most likely will be good in front of the camera. Yeah, and you know, sorry, go ahead. No, go ahead. I'm sorry. I made it look  like I was about to jump over, you know. Yeah. And listen, Whitny's been doing this for  a long time. She knows what she's doing. And   that's completely evident on camera. When  you see her asking the right questions and   how to approach things and how to,  you know, critically think about   things, most importantly, in a job like this. And  not being swayed so easily one way or the other,   and being able to look at the whole big picture  and question everything. And she does that.   And I learned a lot about her job and what she  does and how you have to approach it and do it. I think it's a very fascinating job. But  again, that may be my own personal sort   of background. But Whitny, this must have  been fun. You got your dad starring on this? Oh, yeah. I mean, my dad played a huge role in  the investigation that just doesn't always get   captured on camera. Because we don't, you know,  we don't have me on the phone with him constantly   in the documentary. But you know, I mean, my dad's  who taught me how to do this. And so one of the   experiments that we did was, you see in the  documentary, we did a ballistics test. So, we were   able to, you know, get a replica of the same type  of Derringer that was used in the assassination.   And that was like, you know, I felt like a kid  again, to a certain extent. Because it's like,   you know, getting to play. We were getting to  play. We're getting to do this together. And   I can't give my dad enough credit for helping  in this process with a lot of the research. Yeah, for those of, even for you who've made  it this far in the podcast and are still not   interested necessarily in knowing whether this is  a photo or not of Abraham Lincoln. It's well worth   watching just for the scene where you're doing the  ballistics test, I would say. I thought that was,   I was wondering where are  they going with this? But   it was a lot of fun. And I see that bomber jacket  behind you. (laughs) I love the comment bomber   jacket, dad, you didn't get the bomber jacket  memo or you did get the bomber jacket memo... I really questioned free will, whether  free will exist or not. Because my dad   and I, over the years have periodically shown  up at events where we have not discussed in   advance what we are going to be wearing. And  we're wearing exactly the same outfit. I'm   wearing the feminine version. He's wearing  the masculine version. But it makes me just   question whether or not I actually have any free  will. Because we somehow make parallel decisions. And I think that's a whole nother podcast. I mean,   you're the first guest to  quote Kant, but there you go. I was just gonna comment one thing about, just  in general, this idea of, you know, you mentioned   that, how are we going to fit this in. But  that was a big intention going in, you know,   with the film, was like, figuring out using  modern technology to help us. Things that were   not available then, to help us try to decipher  exactly what happened, what this image is. And,   you know, being able to do ballistic  tests and facial recognition, technology,   and things that we had at our disposal were a big  part of this. And we knew that going in, and that   was a big part of the plan from the beginning.  And so, and it's funny when you say it, because   I got the same reaction when I told somebody,  we're going to film at a shooting range. And,   you know, so how does that help in telling an  archival narrative. But it was, it was helpful,   I think. I think it does give the viewer something  to kind of be able to connect with and put their   hands on a little bit more and understand  a little bit more what we're looking at. Yeah, and that's one thing that  you, as a filmmaker, I mean,   maybe this is one of the elements, how do  you go about bringing 150 year old mystery   to life? Especially one that doesn't  benefit from archival film or footage? Yeah, well, I think part of what drew me in,  you know, was this idea of like, being able to   shoot it as an active investigation, as opposed to  just talking head archival retelling of an events,   you know. Without Whitney driving the narrative  and having her to follow to all these different   places, and we do obviously get into, we need to  tell what happened with a little bit of that in   the archival footage, archival photography, and  the talking heads from historians, which are all   part of this. You know, having this active element  was such a huge part of this, where you can,   you know, really kind of dive in and sink your  teeth into it as it's happening and unfolding   before your eyes. And for me, that was a big draw  of the project to begin with. And Archie and Paul,   our executive producers had already done  a lot of the legwork and figuring out,   you know, who we can talk to and who we can  go out and follow and go into Illinois and DC   and New York and California to kind of find  all these different aspects of the story. You must had a hell of a  travel budget, but I think,   you know, I think that's a very good point, for  those listeners. It's not, nothing against Ken   Burns, but it's not Ken Burns Civil War. I mean,  it's as you as you described it, it's very much,   we've touched on a few times. It's a bit  of a true crime. It's a journey. It's   following Whitny on this journey of discovery,  which is very compelling and entertaining.   Now it strikes me, having you here, I wouldn't  be remiss if I didn't ask some questions about   how this film almost didn't see the light of day.  And I'm not sure, I don't want to go into too many   details there. But I mean, do you want to maybe  take this opportunity to say some things about   others who are saying that this film  should not have been allowed to be shown. I mean, I don't know that there's anything that  we can legally say, you know, at this point,   other than that, the injunction was was tossed  out. I mean, you know. And again, the ownership   of the image is a completely different matter,  than the authenticity, right? I mean, the Mona   Lisa is the Mona Lisa, regardless of whether it's  at the Louvre or in the Smithsonian, who owns it,   it's irrelevant. And so that was the attitude that  we took is that whoever ends up owning this at the   end of the day, that's what they choose to do with  it. That's, that's completely on them. I mean,   neither Jason nor myself have any ownership in  the image. We won't ever see the ownership in the   image. So we just said, we're just going to tell  the story of its authenticity, or lack thereof,   depending on which way it went, right? We didn't  know necessarily going in what the result of this   was going to be. And so we're going to tell that  story. And the ownership is for the courts to   decide and for it to be handled in a completely  different form than what we're focusing on. Okay. So have you actually seen, because  what we seein the film is a digital   copy of the actual. Have you  actually seen the original ambrotype? I have. So the image that we're using in the  documentary, the image passed through many   owners. And the image that we're looking at, we're  exploring it with Larry Davis. Now, Larry Davis is   the gentleman that is the linchpin here, between  Margaret Hanks who is the relative of Abraham   Lincoln, who had it in a steamer trunk in her  house. You know, Larry Davis is the link to our   president. And so we talked to him. And really,  that's all that mattered for our purposes, because   who legally owns it today is again, not  relevant to the authenticity of the image.   Larry Davis is the one that took it in hand  from Margaret Hanks, and the details she   shared with him, were what we needed to know  whether the image was real or not. And she,   Margaret Hanks to me is this perfect  example of how history goes undiscovered,   right? Here's a woman who's a relative  of Lincoln, living this life of obscurity   in a house that was ultimately condemned. I  mean, her house was considered a hoarders house,   you know, when she passed away. And she had a  steamer trunk full of all of these amazing photos   that, we don't get into in the documentary, but  there was a whole collection of photos. It's just   the one of Lincoln is the most outstanding of the  Hanks and the Lincoln families. And what kills me   is if Larry Davis hadn't gotten that image from  her, that would have all just gone in a dumpster.   Right, that would have all gone a  dumpster. And that happens so much.   And so I have a job doing this that I love,  largely because so much of history literally   just gets dumped in the trash. Because people  die, the story dies with them. And you know,   a granddaughter comes in and wants to flip the  house and sell it. So they call in a dumpster and   a crew and away that history goes. And that's to  me, the great tragedy of our time, in many ways. Yeah, I think although you're giving, you're  giving rationale for hoarders everywhere now.   I think, myself included.  My wife and I find it too, I   don't even know to go there, but  some of the furniture you find,   that's just been given away. People just  don't realize what they've got on their hands. I mean, there's crazy examples of like a  guy bought Ansel Adams original glass plates   of his photographs of Yosemite at a garage  sale in Fresno several years back. I mean,   you know, the examples are plentiful. But I think  if I had one dream going into this process, and I   said this a million times to Archie, Archie Gips  our executive producer, I would just hope that   whether you believe this is Lincoln or not, right,  and you can completely poopoo us and not agree   with the conclusions, but if it just makes one  person go into their attic and go, Hey, you know,   I got some cool photos up there, I should  probably take a second look at that before   I put it in the dumpster, this spring  cleaning session. If one person saves   one piece of history, because they watched our  documentary, I'm gonna call this a success. Okay, and then you've got a  series on your hands, don't you?   One thing I wanted, because I don't want to  harp on this, but so what we're alluding to,   dear listeners, there's Google it, you'll find  things, but basically, there's a dispute around   the ownership of the image. And you've  gotten caught up a little bit into this.   And they tried to put a temporary restraining  order on the release of the film. Now,   what is public records, they've put out  press releases, and one thing that caught my   eye and I was just curious if you wanted to,  they are claiming that the photo was taken before   Lincoln died. Is that correct? I mean, is  that what they, is that your understanding? Well, that's the assertion that they are making.  But that is not our finding. Soour findings in   terms of constructing a timeline that matched with  the moment of opportunity to take the picture,   the physical light available to capture the image  and who was physically present to take the image,   would put the image at roughly 9am  on the morning of April 15 1865.   So he was pronounced at about 720 - 722. And then  his body was still in the Peterson house until   between 9 - 930 when the quartermaster Corps,  led by George Valentine Rutherford brought   in a casket. They had to have a custom casket  made for him because he was so tall. And so we,   you know, kind of factoring all these things  together. There was a window of time of about   an hour where George Valentine Rutherford, who  in our chain of custody is the one that brought   it to Quincy and gave it to Margaret Hanks  grandfather. He had a one hour window of time   where he was in control of that room, and where  the Ulkes were still cleaning up the room from   the previous night's activities. And  where we know a camera was in the room   because they took those other images. So no, we  don't believe that it was taken the night before,   we believe it was taken roughly between, let's  just say between 830 and 930, the next day. And some of that was out, it's in the  film. And one last thing on this is,   you go to Rochester, New York, the  home of Eastman Kodak. However,   it still exists these days. And I think that's  where your expert on ambrotypes is. Is that this,   you talked to it, but he said he'd  seen the image before. Is that right? Yeah. So you know, it might be a misnomer to  say that this image was completely undiscovered.   Because the image has existed and has been seen by  other people over the years. And that was actually   part of the provenance is going back to Quincy,  Illinois, and going back to everybody who said,   Oh, yeah, yeah, I had dinner with Margaret  Hanks in 1978. And she pulled it out. And then,   you know, so, yes. Has it been publicly seen prior  to our documentary? No. But, you know, there are   stories going back 150 plus years of people who  were like, Oh, yeah, I saw it, or Oh, you know,   hey, I went, I talked to so and so who said they  saw it. So that was part of the chase early on   with the image was if a picture just shows up,  and no one's ever heard of it, or seen it before,   that's actually very hard to authenticate. But  when you can go back, and there's an established   trail, including old newspaper clippings, you  know, people talking about it in the Quincy   Historical Society saying, Oh, yeah, somebody  brought it here. And, you know, when you can find   all those little kernels going back 100 years that  don't actually make for great documentary filler.   Like dinner at Margaret Hanks house in the late  70s, isn't maybe going to fill an entire scene   in the documentary. You know, there was a  lot of that, that just didn't make it to   the final film of being, of researching  its existence over the past 150 years. Okay. Well, and as we all know, loads and loads  of footage ends up on the cutting room floor   in order to make a feature doc. So I guess what's  pending is this ownership dispute. And then   we don't know how that will play  out. But at some point there,   I guess the hope would be that it does  go public in some form or fashion? Well, the hope would be that whoever wins the  ownership battle, would be open to doing more   testing. Because, you know, what if we  could dust for fingerprints, you know?   What if we could find trace amounts  of DNA on it? What if we, you know,   there's just a laundry list of other tests that  you can do if you could, if you had the permission   to physically access the image. But for  now, it is being held by the courts. And so,   you know, just wait and hope and pray  that someday that we can do more research? Okay. And, you know, so both of you, as Americans,  if this is indeed a photo of the last or the lost,   I should say, the lost photo of Abraham Lincoln,  the 131st image that we become aware of. What is,   and each one of you take a turn on this, what  do you think is the importance of this image? Do you want to go first, Jason? Go ahead. Okay. Um, so, people will say, well, it's gonna  change history. It doesn't change history. Lincoln   is still Lincoln. History is still played out the  way it's played out. But what it means to me and   I cannot speak for what it means to the greater  public, I think can be summarized by the fact that   early on, when I had showed the image to people,  a lot of people's reaction was Oh, oh, that's   macabre, oh, that's disrespectful. You know,  that image, to show him in such a frail state.   And I don't see it that way. I mean, I think  if I felt that this was remotely disrespectful,   or had malintent, I wouldn't want to pursue  this. But I don't feel that way at all. I mean,   I feel like here is this great man who means  so much to us and he was ultimately human. And,   you know, what do all humans experience  but we ultimately experience death.   And I think that in a way, it's a tribute to the  fallibility of humanity, right. That we can fight,   we can do wonderful things. We can move mountains,  we can unite nations, we can free slaves.   But father time comes for all of us, and sometimes  sooner than later and unfortunately, in his case,   from an assassin's bullet, because he stood  for something. And it makes me think of   one of my favorite quotes, and I'm not getting the  words right, exactly, but it's the sentiment is,   Winston Churchill said, you know, people  don't like you - good, that means you stood   for something. And obviously, Abraham Lincoln  stood for something. And that was ultimately what   cost him his life. Cause John Wilkes Booth  very much did not approve of the Emancipation   Proclamation or, you know, reunifying the country  and took Lincoln's life as a result. So I don't   see it as disrespectful, I see it as a memorial,  right, a memorial image to someone who gave their   life in service of their country. And that's just  me. I mean, other people may view it differently.   But I view it as a very poignant moment  captured in time that makes you appreciate   a sacrifice that another American made  so we can have the life that we have. And what do you think, Jason? I think we hit on it a little  bit in the film. And for me it's,   you know, there's 130 images of Lincoln. And  they're almost exclusively very staid, portraits,   very set up, you know. And as a filmmaker,  you know, when I show up with a camera,   I'm not as interested in, if I  show up to like a press conference,   I'm not as interested in setting up in the  middle with the shot directly looking at the   person talking, I want to be around the side and  seeing what's going on back there and sort of,   you know, if there's some chaos or getting real  emotion. And I think that's what this picture   actually shows some real emotion and vulnerability  in somebody that people thought they knew.   But probably only knew so much based on legend  and photos we've seen. And I think, just getting a   little bit of that window into somebody that they,  and I think Whitny said this, that, you know,   they're a human being. And I think giving some  of that, a little bit more of that insight into   seeing somebody in the statement. And I agree,  when I was first told about this, I kind of   assumed, oh, a gory picture, postmortem picture.  It's not that at all. It is a little eerie.   But it is not a gourd, it's not sensational in  that way. And I do think it does give you a little   bit, it pulls back the curtain a little bit on  somebody, a figure that we've all known for years. You know what. I'm so sorry. See, what  I kind of liken it to is a lot of times,   you know, in our culture that reveres  strength as an essential part of masculinity,   when a man starts to decline, he retires from  public life. So that people only remember him   in his most robust form. And I've always felt,  I don't care for that idea. I don't think that   there's anything disrespectful or shameful  about the natural progression of life and   death. And in whatever form you exist in, you  know, whether it be at your full strength or   in a state of disability. That is who you are,  that does not diminish you as a person. And so   that's how I feel about this photo, it does not  in any way diminish the greatness of Lincoln. Okay. And I said that was going  to be maybe the last thing,   but one thing that did, it's toward the end of  the film, if you don't mind me raising this,   I found remarkable. I had never heard this  before. You talk to someone about the autopsy? And   he says that the wound did not  have to be mortal. Is that correct? Yeah. So I'm glad you brought that  up. Because I actually got quite a few   comments on that myself from people. You know, I  work in the medical community and there's actually   a theory, right, that one of the reasons in movies  that they always show like in the old Western,   when they pull a bullet out of somebody, and  they drop it in a pan, you hear that clink sound,   that that actually is inspired by the autopsy  description of when they lifted Lincoln's brain,   the bullet fell out in a pan and made an  echoing sound. And the belief at the time,   was that if you could basically dislodge the  bullet and get it out that would allow the tissue   to heal. Today, we wouldn't do that, right. And  so then in their attempts to dislodge the bullet,   they were essentially damaging the  white matter in the brain, you know.   So yeah, I mean, it may, according to, it may not  have been fatal if it had been just left alone.   But, you know, the attempts to do the right thing  may have actually ultimately caused his demise. Okay. And I think I won't go into too much  more detail, but you do say, I mean, you talk   to someone who's an expert on Lincoln's health,  and so looks like he wasn't long for this world.   Anyway, not that it's great that he left this  world the way he did. But I thought that was very   interesting, because it's not something that,  that is, I mean, you bring a lot of new things   to the historical record, I'd say. Or even  bring things out that maybe people had forgot,   kind of lost track of. But it was  an interesting point. I think,   I hate to say, but I think we're coming  to the end of our time together. And so   well, Jason, let me start with you. What's next  for you? What projects do you have after this? You know, I think everyone's in a little bit  of a, you know, I've spent the last few months   actually developing a lot of ideas that had  kind of been sitting on the shelf for a bit,   because I did have a few projects that were  getting ready to go and they kind of got delayed,   let's say, for a bit. We're hoping, hoping to get  back but it has given me time to kind of revisit   some projects I had been developing and getting  some writing done. And we're hoping, you know,   we're hoping things get to the point where we can  get back out and really start filming as we would   like to do on projects in a safe manner. Okay. Well, best of luck with that. I  have, I must say I'd kind of forgotten.   Not that I forgot about COVID. But I've kind of  stopped asking the COVID question, but yes, it is,   it's more than the elephant in the room,  obviously. But Whitny, what about for you besides   being a professor of bioethics and a  authenticator? What's next for you? Well, besides those two things, I mean, it's  sort of a, it's a busy time, because I teach   public health ethics, right. So this is kind of  my busiest time in my career. But people are not   antiquing right now. It's not a surprise, right?  People aren't going to swap meets and fair. So   that area for me has dried up  just a little bit. And actually,   though, I'm actually working with a law firm  doing investigations into some old legal cases,   because it's the same process, right. So, I'm  actually doing legal investigation right now. Are you doing cold cases? Yeah, I'm actually. Working for a law firm working  on that. And I mean, I love it, right. I mean,   whether you're doing contact tracing. Because  that's how I got in to healthcare, actually,   in large part. I did my Master's in Public  Health because I like doing contact tracing   and working your way back to patient zero.  Investigation is the same whatever the field,   and so I just enjoy doing that. So now I'm working  with a law firm doing some cold cases. And then,   my fiance has been stuck in a hotel room in  Peru since March 16 because of the quarantine,   so I'm gonna be able to go see him  finally on December 15. And then we will   start our life. So that's what's next  for me is having a reunion with Jorge. Oh, congratulations. Yes, I too know some  people, not Peruvians, but people who were   stuck in Peru for a while. Because they were one  of the first ones to lock down. Yeah, that's,   wow. Well, this is one hell of a year for  you, isn't it? But best of luck with that,   and congratulations, and I'm glad you're  gonna get to meet up with Jorge. Hello, Jorge.   If you watch this, we're giving you a shout out.  Well, let me wrap up there. I want to thank both   of you. Whitny Braun, Jason Cohen thanks so much  for being on the podcast. This has been very much   appreciated. For those of you, just to remind  you, we were talking about The Lost Lincoln,   out on Discovery in the US and possibly other  places, but definitely out internationally   on December 20. I also want to give a shout out  here to This Is Distorted Studios here in Leeds,   England. Please remember to like us and share  us with your friends and family wherever you   happen to listen or watch podcasts. And  this is Factual America signing off. You've been listening to Factual America.  This podcast is produced by Alamo pictures   specializing in documentaries, television  and shorts about the USA for international   audiences. Head on down to the show notes  for more information about today's episode,   our guests and the team behind the podcast.  Subscribe to our mailing list or follow us on   Facebook, Instagram and Twitter at Alamo pictures.  Be the first to hear about new productions,   festivals showing our films and to connect with  our team. Our homepage is alamopictures.co.uk 