 [Deborah DeMott] Yes. Good afternoon. I'm Deborah DeMott. I'm a member of the Law School faculty at Duke where I developed and I teach the Art Law course. It's an honor and a great pleasure to introduce Professor Gerstenblith this afternoon. She has long been an inspiration to many of us and a good friend to so many She's the Distinguished Research Professor of Law at DePaul University College of Law and faculty director of the Center for Art, Museum & Cultural Heritage Law. She received her BA degree from Bryn Mawr College, her JD from Northwestern, and her PhD in fine arts and anthropology from Harvard University. More recently, she received an honorary doctorate from Hebrew Union College Jewish Institute of Religion. She's the author of several authoritative texts well-known to people in this field and many, many influential scholarly articles. In the more practical realm, from 2011 through 2017, appointed by President Obama, she chaired the President's Cultural Property Advisory Committee within the State Department, having previously served as a public member on the committee appointed by President Bill Clinton. Finally, it's fair to say that forging ahead with her distinctive background and set of interests, she established cultural heritage as a distinct interdisciplinary field bridging archaeology, the law, and so much else. So over to Professor Gerstenblith. [Patty Gerstenblith] Thank you so much, Professor DeMott for the lovely introduction. It's always a pleasure to visit with you my one regret is that I can't be with you at Duke for this occasion. I certainly also want to thank the organizers of the program and the people directing the Manuscript Migration Lab. It's so appreciated when people are willing to shine a spotlight on these issues, but even more so when they're willing to shine that spotlight on themselves. So you have undertaken the difficult and perhaps unforgiving task of examining not just issues of manuscripts in general, but in particular the manuscripts and other written materials that you have in your collection. I also want... as we look at the introductory slide you see some of the landscape - the looted landscape in southern Iraq - I want to acknowledge also that as I sit here in the suburb of Chicago known as Wilmette, that this was once the land of the Native American tribe, the Potawatomi, before they were forcibly removed to Kansas, to the west. We should acknowledge the role that cultural heritage plays in their past and as well as continuing into the present. And that from them as well as from other groups, we can all learn about the significance that culture and cultural heritage plays in all of our lives. I want to also acknowledge some of the sources that I'm using during my presentation today. There's an invaluable volume co-edited by Matthew Rutz and Morag Kersel, which collects many of the issues of dealing with written documents, written sources of material, different types of texts. The work of the group called Lying Pen of Scribes, which was responsible for much of the work done on the so-called Dead Sea Scroll fragments that are now acknowledged to be forgeries. And I can't begin to acknowledge the significant debt to Neil Brodie, who is probably the foremost scholar of the art market and its effect on archaeological artifacts. In particular, his most recent article cited here, concerning the restitution of artifacts - cuneiform tablets - from Hobby Lobby to Iraq. And with too many articles to acknowledge individually, there's also the work of Christopher Rollston who has done extensive work on undocumented ethnographic material from a Semitic background. And finally, the book of Ariel Sabar, Veritas, I'm sure many of you familiar with, that worked on debunking the authenticity of the so-called Gospel of Jesus' Wife. So these are just a few of the scholars working in this field whose worked I have drawn upon and relied on, and whom I would recommend to you if you're interested in the subject. My final acknowledgement is that this week observes the 50th anniversary of the 1970 UNESCO Convention on the means of prohibiting and preventing the illicit import, export, and transfer of ownership of cultural property. When I was first approached to participate in this workshop, it was presented to me in the guise of "Let's talk about the 1970 UNESCO Convention." Unfortunately, I realized quickly that I need to be somewhat more expansive in the material that I present to you today. But preliminarily I want to mention here the limitations of international conventions. First of all, conventions are only binding on states that have ratified them. And that begins only from the time of the ratification. Furthermore, in some cases, domestic implementing legislation is also required, and this may take additional time. So, for example, the United States' ratification of the 1970 convention is considered to date only from 1983. But finally, customary international law may apply to situations, even if a particular country has not ratified a particular convention. So I begin by looking at the damage and destruction that's caused to archaeological sites. This is a site in southern Iraq, as you can see, with looters' pits extending far out into the distance. When a site is looted, the context, the stratagraphic information that could be derived - here represented schematically, and in the lower left, an actual site. The importance of stratigraphy and context for archaeological artifacts. And for those of you who know me personally, I'm sure you realize that my favorite one is the bottom right, the layer cake. So within each of these layers is contained something of a time capsule. In other words, everything in that layer together would come from the same time period. Now that's a bit of an overstatement for simplification, perhaps, but I think you get the idea. But within a layer is not only objects that would be considered important either in terms of their monetary value, or more importantly, for their cultural and historical value. But things that may not to first the first eye seem to have that kind of value. These are things like architectural remains or perhaps faunal and floral remains - clearly not saleable on the market. But when the site is looted to achieve the art or to obtain the objects that would be saleable on the market, these other types of objects, this other kind of information, is lost. And without preservation of the stratigraphic context of objects, we cannot fully reconstruct or attempt to understand the past. Objects move through the market beginning from their source, from the country in which they are originally located and discovered, and they move through the market. And I want to acknowledge that this diagram comes from Professor Morag Kersel, my colleague at DuPaul. Now she would say - one of the things I think she would say - is that you could have all three markets represented within one country. But the paradigm I'm going to talk about is one in which we're talking about different countries. So objects are going to be crossing borders as part of my discussion. So the object begins by being looted from an archaeological site. It moves into transit countries, or intermediate countries. These may be geographically advantaged states, in other words, countries that are nearby. But today, I think it's more that geography is probably less important. But what has been important and continues to be important is what we might call legally advantaged states. In other words, states where due to their either lack of ratification or implementation of international conventions or due to their own domestic law, they allow the title to the artifact to be laundered. And the artifact emerges at the end in an ultimate destination country with at least the veneer of legality. Of course, the United States is one of the largest ultimate market countries in the world. And this is not only enabled through the economic situation, but our high-end donors often acquire objects with the idea that they may eventually donate them and receive a deduction in their taxable income, and therefore in the taxes that they owe. They are therefore willing to pay a premium, which makes them a very desirable buyer on the market. Now I'm going to today, illustrate... First of all, my goal was to illustrate all of my points through the use of written materials, textual materials, including manuscripts and others. I achieved that almost completely, not completely. But also to use most of my examples coming from the very recent and ongoing saga of the Hobby Lobby stores and the museum created by Steve Green who you see on the left in the picture in the upper right corner. The museum that they created in Washington, DC, known as the Museum of the Bible. And the museum and Hobby Lobby itself has had ongoing legal challenges, let us say, as well as ethical and other challenges with which they had been coping for approximately 10 years. In roughly 2009, 2010 when the decision was made to create this collection, a very large quantity of artifacts was purchased in a short period of time. And, as others have said, it's almost inevitable that they ran into trouble in trying to build a collection so quickly. Now I'm going to give you a quick, and I emphasize quick, run-through of the relevant legal principles. I'm going to start with theft. So the theft is the taking of an object or other type of property from a person who is the owner without their permission. In the case of what we can call documented artifacts - artifacts known and generally recorded as part of a public or private collection - known before something bad happens to them. We also have undocumented artifacts, the types of things I was talking about. These are artifacts not known, not documented, and are usually, particularly in the context. I'm talking about now, looted directly from the ground. It is these types of objects that cause the most damage to the archaeological and historical record. And so what we see here is an attempt by the law to impose consequences on collectors and dealers in particularly the market country as a way of trying to discourage the sale and the acquisition to reduce the demand, which in turn, under basic law of supply and demand, should also reduce the supply. So artifacts that are looted directly from the ground may be subject what's called foreign national or state ownership. This means their ownership is vested in the country where they are discovered. Such artifacts, if they are removed without permission of the country, are also considered to be stolen property. We treat them the same as any other stolen property. Both the US and the UK recognize this principle. Now, whichever type of stolen property we're talking about in the US and the other countries that follow the common law, follow what's known as the nemo dat quod non habet rule, abbreviated here, meaning a thief cannot convey good title. So it doesn't matter if the purchaser acted in good faith. And many, many times somebody who's caught out the stolen property will say, but I bought it in good faith. Well, in fact, that doesn't matter under US law. It would matter if there was a criminal prosecution, but it doesn't matter in the case of just talking about somebody acquiring an object and whether they might be required to return it. So good faith is irrelevant, although a claim may be barred by the statute of limitations or an equitable defense, such as laches. This topic alone would take an extensive amount of time to cover, I can certainly answer questions about it later, but I'm going to leave it there for now. I mentioned also the international law embodied in the early Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 already prohibited the theft of cultural property during armed conflict and also military occupation. So we have many different examples of types of theft, but I will mention two or three manuscript situations. These two examples here both involve Hobby Lobby and the Museum of the Bible. The first in the upper right - actually, the image is in the upper left - is a manuscript stolen from the University of Athens, purchased by Hobby Lobby, and returned in 2018. The bottom is an earlier Greek gospel stolen from a monastery in Greece in 1917, so during the First World War, apparently, or allegedly by Bulgarian soldiers. Hobby Lobby purchased this in 2011 and has just recently agreed to return it, although I believe it's going to be loaned back to the museum for some period of time before it actually is returned. Now it seems to be quite a few of these manuscripts have been showing up recently. Three are at least allegedly in the collection at Duke. But as far as I know there's been no resolution yet to that claim. And there's also at least one manuscript at Princeton which is the subject of current litigation. But again, all the same principles would apply. They apply also to archaeological objects that are subject to national ownership. And a good example from Museum of the Bible and Hobby Lobby is this cuneiform tablet. It's a fragment from the Gilgamesh Epic, which was on loan to and on display in the Museum of the Bible. You see it here. And just a little over a year ago - well, they were seized a little over a year ago - the US government has filed a civil forfeiture complaint against it in April, this past April, May, this past year. So because it was subject to ownership by Iraq, it is subject to the same rules that apply to stolen property. And if the US government is successful in its forfeiture of this tablet, this will be returned to Iraq at the conclusion of the litigation. Now the other legal principles that I want to talk about... I have three here. That will be the end of the legal principles. Are first of all, dealing with cultural materials that are illegally exported and therefore illegally imported, even if they are not stolen. This is the relevance of the 1970 UNESCO Convention, but also depends on implementation by different countries. And in the case of the United States, this illegal export provision requires an additional agreement with the US. Second, we have improper declaration. Many times, cultural materials are not properly declared upon import as to what they are, their value, and their country of origin or discovery. And the last thing that I'll mention is forgeries. So in the US implementation of the 1970 convention, as I mentioned, we have agreements and designated categories of cultural materials are subject to import restriction, meaning they cannot come into United States if they were exported after the effective date of the agreement. This is just one illustration of many of the designated list for Greece. And the point here is to show you, and I hope you can see my cursor, that various kinds of written textual materials are covered. These examples of parchment documents are covered under this agreement. Now, the agreement only went into effect in 2011, so this does not apply to anything that left Greece before 2011. But we now have import restrictions through one mechanism or another with most of the Eastern Mediterranean countries. Not quite all, but many or most. And they do tend to include written textual material as well. The forfeiture from the Hobby Lobby collection from 2017, so this is distinct from the Gilgamesh case, involved approximately 3,500 cuneiform tablets and these bullae, which are these clay lumps thtn have stamp seals on them. These were brought in in violation of all three major legal principles. First, they were imported in violation of US import restrictions implemented through the 1970 convention. Secondly, they were stolen property because they were subject to state ownership in Iraq. Third, they were improperly declared as to their country of origin, their monetary value, and in fact what they were: they were declared to be clay tile samples, just as an example. So all three of those were basis for the civil forfeiture to proceed, which was in fact successful. And a very similar forfeiture occurred as well in the UK, probably material that is in some way connected with the Hobby Lobby material. The last topic is forgeries - very common and increasingly common, unfortunately. Few examples you're probably familiar with: the so-called Gospel of Jesus' Wife, which was published by a Harvard professor, which also shows the technical difficulties that ancient materials can be reused. Even the inks can be reconstituted and will pass scientific muster. Now there were other mistakes in the so-called Gospel that were detected by scholars, but it is very difficult. Scientific testing can tell you something is definitively a fake. It can't tell you that something definitively is authentic because the forgers are very sophisticated. Another example is the inscription on the so-called James Ossuary. Again, the stone box itself is probably authentic and part of the inscription self may be authentic. But then it was embellished to show particularly things that can talk about the Bible, refer to the Bible, become extremely desirable and will achieve a higher price on the market. And again, thinking about Hobby Lobby and the Museum of the Bible, we know that recently, extensive studies showed that the 16 fragments of so-called Dead Sea Scroll fragments have been identified all to be forgeries. Quite a few fragments have shown up in the market starting in about 2002 and these are now either all proved to be, or at least believed to be, modern forgeries as well. Speaking of forgeries, I want to mention that it's very important that the provenance documentation is also often forged. So if you are examining provenance documents, this is something you must keep in mind. And a recent example of this is this coffin of Nedjemankh that was purchased by Metropolitan Museum of Art in roughly 2011 - excuse me, it was looted in 2011 after the Arab Spring uprising in early 2011 in Egypt. It was purchased by the Metropolitan Museum in 2017 with a forged export license, which if they had paid sufficient scrutiny, would have revealed that the license was in fact a forgery. And it was returned in 2019. And just to keep in mind, while I'm always reluctant to show human remains, I think that this illustration from perhaps the same cemetery where the coffin was looted - it's not certain - you can see the human remains here, including the spine of the person whose tomb was looted in order to pry this to the market. So the effect of the market and the looting of sites can be seen here, I think, very dramatically. And the disrespect, and the leaving behind in this kind of disarray, the human remains themselves is something that we should be mindful of. Now, the law has its limits, as I think I've already made clear. So the question is, what's the role of ethics? To me, the role of ethics is to fill the gaps that the law leaves. And many professional associations and organizations have adopted 1970, which by itself has no legal significance, but have adopted 1970 as an ethical threshold. And basically adopted what we call the 1970 standard, meaning that objects that are not documented as outside of their country of origin before 1970 or with proof of legal export after 1970 will be considered, we can use the word "tainted," or things that should not be studied. So here I'm drawing on one example: The American Society of papyrologists who in 2007 adopted this 1970 standard. I'm not going to read through the whole paragraph, it's quite long. But one of the important things here is it acknowledges that written materials, textual materials, should be treated, in a sense, as part of the archaeological record. And that their loss of original context diminishes their significance and their historical value. And that the trade adds to that destruction of the archaeological record. So this is part of the preamble: Not all people who deal with textual material agree that technical material should be subject to the same either legal or ethical principles as other types of archaeological material. So I find this preamble to be important because it does acknowledge that. It calls on its membership, so the ASP shall not directly participate in the trade of objects. And here we are using the date 1972, which is when the 1970 convention went into effect. So members should not directly participate in the trade, but they also, in part two, should not indirectly participate, which includes adding to the commercial value and authenticating material. Publication, presentation, and exhibit of such material shall not occur under the Society's auspices, unless it's done for the purpose of describing the problems of the provenance and the problems the lack of good provenance cause. So there are many associations from archaeological associations to museums and individual museums and other types of professional associations that have adopted some variation of the 1970s standard. There are many exceptions and the different societies and professional groups use different exceptions, which is why I call it a standard, and not a rule. So it is really still up to both the organizations, and perhaps more importantly, the individual to decide how these principles should be put into effect. And with that, I want to thank you for your attention and I'm happy to take questions or discussion. 