 Personally, I lost my freedom It is an event that I think left its scars on us. Everything that happened established evidence that we are very fragile as a species. In the quarantine we had to stay at home all the time, this was the most annoying thing. The most disturbing element was that we couldn’t hug anybody. I am quite scared that we somehow get used to avoiding each other physically. At first there was an emotional problem, like being far from the mother, especially mine as she is old. It confirmed a line that I was already following, by simplifying the way we live. I always felt safe outside and I liked how unoccupied the streets were. I also noticed that the general solidarity increased. I saw a lot of notes proposing to go shopping for people at risk My main realisation was that time isn't limitless in our lives So, having so much free time, I was reading a lot I spent more time with my children. We played games, while before we played some board games only at Christmas or on holidays Then also, you can do a lot of things without the need to take a car for moving far from home. Whereas, you can also move in other ways. It gives the chance to people to maybe realize how to spend their money better I produced a record, I made it by mixing on distance with a friend in Milan, then in Florence So, if power is will, then something clicks on me. This helps to keep being creative. I spent most of the time here with a family of squirrels. We almost became close friends. I don't say we watched television together, but you know, something like that. The lack of car engines and people making noises was very nice while unfamiliar at the same time. That's a thing that really came to my attention in a positive way. I actually felt good during this time period. You can start to notice change in others once the others decide to change. Because if you don’t decide to change you will never see an external world. If you don’t change inside you will never be able to see a change in the external. 