 - Here are my top 10 results from the February 2020 CMO Survey. These results are based on a sample of 265 top marketers at for-profit US companies, 98% of whom hold the position of VP or higher. Spending on existing markets and offerings continues to dominate growth spending at 54% of investment, while diversification spending, that is, spending on new markets and new offerings, continues to be lowest at 10.4%. Marketers currently spend about 2.1% of their budgets on China, up from 1.7% three years ago. Marketers anticipate these budgets to increase 100% to 4.2% in three years. Internet sales as a percent of revenues tick up, rising to the highest level in a decade at 13.5%. Companies continue to prioritize organic growth, with 72% of investments focused on leveraging internal sources of growth, compared to growth via partnerships at 11.4%, acquisitions at 11.3%, or licensing at 5.1%. Having the right talent and stakeholder alignment are viewed as most important to organic growth over the right operating model, technology, or data. Marketing budget growth dips to 7.6% compared to the August 2019's eight-year high of 8.7%. This drop may reflect last year's actual marketing budget, which was only 5.8% growth. Marketing budget as a percent of firm budget remains steady at about 11.3%, while marketing budget as a percent of firm revenues rises to 8.6%, a 9% increase since 2018. Growth in digital marketing spending remains very robust, with a 13% increase expected in the next year, and that's a pace that has been maintained over about the last decade. Traditional media advertising, on the other hand, continues to reflect negative growth, with a -0.4% change, slightly smaller than the decade average reduction of -1.5%. Spending on customer experience has increased 71% over the last three years, from 8.9% of marketing budgets to 15.2% at present. Marketers expect this increase in spend to reach 20.6% of their marketing budgets in the next three years. 81.5% of marketing leaders are unlikely to use their brands to take a stance on politically-charged issues. This percentage is up from the 73.5% who reported an unwillingness to do so in the August 2019 survey. In terms of the best way to take a political stance, marketers believe that allowing employees to speak out on political issues is the most important, followed by making actual changes to their products and services. 73% of marketing leaders indicate their companies would be most likely to change their products or services to reduce the negative impact of marketing-related activities on the ecological environment. Spending on social media grows to 13% of marketing budgets, reaching the second-highest point in survey history. It's expected to rise to 21.5% in the next five years. Now, outside agencies perform nearly a quarter of all social media activities, the highest level reported since the question was first asked in 2014. Consistent with this trend, marketers report a drop in the number of people employed in-house to perform social media activities from 4.1 persons in February 2014 to 3.1 at present. Social media continues to be rated as contributing only moderate value to company performance, scoring 3.4 on a 7-point scale, where 7 is "very highly," and 1 is "not at all." This is a figure that's been essentially flat since 2016. The percent of marketing budgets spent on mobile continues its upward trend, and it's expected to continue to rise, growing 73% over the next five years. Interestingly, healthcare companies expect to double their share of spending during this period. Marketers cite social ads and user experience as the highest categories of mobile spend, and report the difficulty of tracking consumers across the mobile journey is the factor that is most limiting their success in this important area of marketing strategy. Optimism among marketers climbs again, after hitting its lowest point of the last eight years in the February 2019 survey. Fueling these gains in optimism are the "less optimistic" marketers, who drop almost in half, from 56.2% down to 30% from the last year. Where do marketers think customers are going? Marketers anticipate more customers will emphasize trusting relationships, a 40.2% increase over the last survey, while pressures for low price continue to drop, in this case by 21.3% since the August 2019 survey. Marketing leaders report that growth is the most important KPI for evaluating marketing performance in their firms, and this is relative to ROI. They also report that their companies tend to use more traditional accounting metrics, things like sales and profits, to measure marketing performance over more forward-looking metrics, things like customer lifetime value. Marketing capabilities continue to be ranked as the highest-quality knowledge asset within companies, with customer insights and competitive intelligence a close second and third. Companies continue to approach the development of new marketing capabilities by building them on their own. About 58% of companies report that they build new marketing capabilities by training current or hiring new employees with the needed skills. Both consumer-packaged goods companies and tech firms show the strongest willingness to use an acquisition strategy for developing their new marketing capabilities. In the last year, planned marketing hiring dropped to 5.8%. That's near the historical average for the CMO Survey over the last decade, which has been about 5.6%. Now, four industries show almost double the hiring growth compared to the others. Those are healthcare, tech, communications, and retail. Apple was voted the top marketing company across industries, a feat it has achieved for the last 13 years. When asked to select the company in your own industry that sets the standard for excellence in marketing, marketing leaders selected Amazon and Salesforce in the technology sector, Coca-Cola, Nike, and Procter & Gamble in the consumer goods sector, and Disney in the consumer services sector. I'll be writing more about these topics over the next few months, so watch for more analysis that we'll be performing on these findings. A complete set of results can be found at cmosurvey.org. 