 (bright upbeat music) - [Peter] I'm joined with Alon from Microsoft, Alon would you like to introduce yourself? - [Alon] Yes, hi Peter. My name is Alon Baram, I'm a Senior Product Manager with the Microsoft Power BI Embedded product. - [Peter] Well, we've arrived at the final module, module 7, Power BI Embedding Licensing. And in this module, we'll be discussing the embedding licensing options. We'll provide you with a product comparison, and also some licensing guidance. Embedding Power BI analytics requires licensing and there are two options: Power BI Premium, with the P SKUs or the EM SKUs, and Azure Power BI Embedded, also known as the A SKUs. Now it's important to understand there is one exception, an account with a Power BI Pro license, can generate a finite number of embed tokens. - [Alon] It's provided strictly for evaluation or development purposes, and may be used for testing as well. They are not permitted to be used for production workloads. So when you go to production, you must purchase a license. - [Peter] So let's take a closer look at Power BI Premium. In fact, this is a review of content that we presented to you in module 1. Power BI Premium is a capacity-based license, and it includes the flexibility to publish reports broadly across your enterprise, simplifying and reducing the number of Pro licenses for sharing purposes. It also provides greater scale and performance for dedicated capacities in the service. And it has the ability, also, to maintain Power BI assets on-premises, should you choose to install Power BI Report Server. There's one API surface, a consistent set of capabilities, and access to the latest features for embedded analytics. - [Alon] There are actually two products: P SKU with no embedding restrictions, and EM SKU, which is less scaled than P SKU and cannot share content with Power BI free users through the Power BI service. Azure Power BI Embedded is targeted at ISVs. It's an ISV license, for ISVs or developers who are building apps and want to embed visuals in those apps. There are a few limitations for Power BI Embedded. Capacity content cannot be consumed in the Power BI service. Capacity content cannot be sure to one-click publish to web or one-click publish to SharePoint or in Teams. Also, there is no license for Power BI Report Server. The resource is managed through Azure portal or PowerShell, you can scale up and down. You add capacity admins, you can pause/resume the service; it's highly flexible. There is also integration with Azure analytics. It allows you to analyze diagnostics events, and to understand root causes. It also allows you to integrate with Azure Analytics and metrics. You can use the Azure Resource Manager, ARM API, to automatically manage Power BI Embedded capacities with PowerShell commands. This is something you don't get with P SKUs; you can get capacities, create new capacities, remove and resume capacities, suspend, and much more. - [Peter] So what does it mean by suspended a capacity? Am I still being charged when the capacity isn't running? - [Alon] No, no, when you're pausing a capacity, you are not charged. And this is a really high advantage of the Azure Embedded A SKUs. - [Peter] Well, let's now introduce the different node types. So notice this, the EM1, EM2, EM3 are equivalent in resources and throughput as the A1, A2, A3. And the P1, P2, P3 are the equivalents of the A4, A5 and A6. So when it comes to the number of virtual cores, we can see that can range anywhere from 1 through to 32. The more cores, the more processing capability. Do note for the first two: EM1/A1 and EM2/A2, that they are actually shared resources, they're not dedicated capacity, although we do refer to them as dedicated capacity in documentation. - [Alon] EM1/A1 and EM2/A2, are actually dedicated capacities. But because they use half cores in back-end and in front-end, neighbors can use the other halves. - [Peter] And then for memory, and memory is very important for hosting your Import models in the servers. So the larger your models are, the more models you need to host, you're likely to need more memory. So memory can range from anywhere from 2.5 GB all the way through to 100 GB. - [Alon] For that query in live connection, the higher the SKU, the more throughput you get. - [Peter] Yeah, and this is important because if you anticipate that you've got lots of concurrent activity with your app end users, then you might need to consider a higher SKU to support that concurrency. Then lastly, there's also limitations on how often you can refresh models in parallel, anywhere from 1 through to 24 parallel refreshes taking place. Again, this comes down to the number of models, the frequency of refresh, and the number of concurrent refreshes that you anticipate to take place. Now it's time to compare the three products. - [Alon] A SKU is for Power BI Embedded, which can be purchased in the Azure Portal. The exclusive use case is embedding content in apps for non Power BI users. Billing is hourly and there is no commitment. It's really a full-elastic product. You can scale up, scale down, pause and resume, and use a full ARM APIs set with PowerShell. - [Peter] Let's contrast that with Power BI Premium and its EM SKUs, which you purchase through Office 365. It can be used to embed content in apps and it can also be used to share content with Power BI free users outside the Power BI service, and to embed in other Software as a Service (SaaS) apps such as Microsoft Teams and SharePoint. From a billing perspective, it's monthly with a yearly commitment. And so the difference here is that it can be used to embed content in SharePoint Online and Microsoft Teams. - [Alon] P SKU is a Power BI Premium SKU, purchased in Office 365, and provides you with all capabilities. Billing is monthly, commitment is monthly or yearly. And it combines embedding in apps and use the Power BI service in same capacity and also Power BI Report Server is included. - [Peter] Okay, well now for some licensing guidance. We find typically that enterprises purchase Power BI Premium and ISVs purchase Azure Power BI Embedded. - [Alon] However, there are no restrictions on which product the customer buys. And we have many examples of enterprises that decide to A SKUs because they're only interested in building line of business apps and embedding analytics in them, and they're not interested in using the pre-packaged Power BI service. We also have many ISVs, typically large global ISVs, and they may want to use P SKUs to get the additional benefits of the pre-packaged Power BI service within their organization, as well as embed in their apps. I'd like to talk to you about a special case within an A1 node. An A1 node maybe a viable option. Economically priced, at the time of recording May 2020, it's only USD 1 per hour, which is roughly USD 720 for a month. It's ideal for evaluation, development, and testing. It's ideal to establish a benchmark when capacity-sizing. It may be suitable for apps with small or ad hoc workloads. It can be automatically scaled up or down, according to known usage patterns. And finally, it can be paused if the app has offline periods like nights; billing seizes on pause. - [Peter] Ah, so Alon, it could save me money if I choose to turn it off when I'm not using it. - [Alon] Perfectly true. - [Peter] Oh, I like that. Alon, thanks for joining and for sharing the knowledge you have about Power BI embedding licensing. - [Alon] Sure, thank you Peter I enjoyed it as well. - [Peter] Well, we've arrived at the end of the online course. Thanks for joining us, and stay tuned for the next video which is bonus content. 