 - Dan and Larry, go ahead and take it away. - Yes, thank you and good day. I'm very happy to be here, and to talk about the careers and career planning. It's an excellent opportunity to transmit some of the knowledge that I gained over a three decade career. I'm Larry Harris as Denise indicated. Booth class of '78. I retired in 2012. I've got a lot of material to discuss today. Hopefully, as some of it you'll find of value, so perhaps I'll hold the questions until the end. Over the course of my three decade career I worked for a Fortune 100 company, a major management consulting firm, and a number of brokerage firms on Wall Street as a sale side securities analyst. I worked for close to a dozen different firms, and participated in an even greater number of job interviews. I have looked for jobs during recessions, maybe not as bad as now, but certainly during recessions, and during periods of robust economic activity. I will tell you what I believe that I did which was right, and more importantly, I will tell you what I now in retrospect, think was wrong. I hope that you can learn from my mistakes. I will provide you with specific recommendations that can help you become more effective at your current job. How to position yourself for a promotion. When to begin a job search. How to make switching jobs easier. I will also provide you with my own ideas as how to change careers which I gather a lot of people find somewhat challenging. Ways to improve your resume. Pitfalls to avoid during the interview process. The best way to network, and how to get noticed by executive recruiters. My presentation will be largely anecdotal, (chuckles) and I apologize if I tell a number of stories here, but I think that you will find that they give you some flavor of my experience in a number of my jobs. And I provide these anecdotes, because I believe they will help you to understand the background behind my recommendations, and will provide you with some of the reasoning. First off, I'd like to indicate that as a Booth alumnus you have received the best business education in the world, I really believe it. The skills you have gained can be transferred to a variety of sectors. In addition, if you're based around the city area, remember, you are in the middle of one of the largest job markets in the world. Realistically, success or failure in an individual job, if we can move to the next slide, please. Okay, there we go. Realistically, success or failure in an individual job often is about cultural fit. And this is gonna be one of the my major themes today, rather than job performance. On paper many of the jobs that I held are seemed almost identical. In reality, each employer I worked for was unique; however, I will address both cultural issues and job performance, and how to make both work to your advantage. Some companies are top-down organizations where direction comes from the top. Others are collaborative organizations where employees operate on a semi-autonomous basis. Consulting firms and law firms tend to be collaborative. Larger corporations tend to be top down. It may be different for others, and I'm just talking personally, and everyone is different, but I flourished in environments with significant freedom, and decided as well when everything was structured, if the environment is structured and you are engaging in all kinds of optional activities, it's if you're paddling upstream. I don't like to paddle upstream, it is just too much work, and if I can avoid work I'd like to take that bet. Some employers value innovation and creativity, others do not. Determine what types of behavior are prized, and act accordingly. If you find that the company's objectives and yours are diametrically opposed commence a job search immediately. And as famous 2005 commencement address at Stanford, Steve Jobs said don't waste your life, "Living someone else's life. Have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary." It may seem obvious, but you should choose a career and employer compatible with your interests. If you're lucky enough to have multiple job offers, never, never, and I've seen this happen, choose the one that simply has the largest salary. Choose the one where you think you would be the most comfortable, and you might like your coworkers best. Over the long run the one where you're most comfortable will produce better job satisfaction, better career advancement, and yes, higher compensation. If you don't feel comfortable, or don't like your coworkers, you won't like your job, and you won't do as well. It seems obvious but that's the truth. If it appears to be forced don't take the job. Don't be dazzled by a big paycheck, or a big name employer. If there's any hint that something is wrong, and the personality fit doesn't appear to be right stay away. Ups and downs are a normal part of a career. A successful talk show host and newscaster Tom Snyder from the 70s and 80s said, and he was let go more times than anyone can count. He once put it, "When everything is going your way or coming your way, when everything is coming your way you're probably in the wrong lane." You should have some short term and long term career objectives that are achievable based on your capabilities and personality. This is preferable to then just going with the current, and I plead guilty to sometimes just going with the current. As New York Yankees baseball manager Yogi Berra once put it, "You've gotta be very careful if you don't know where you're going because you might not get there." Yogi was great with those things. In a top-down organization whether an employee is successful often depends on whether the employee is in sync with the company culture, enjoys a positive relationship with their first line supervisor, and regularly meets the employers expectations. At one of my jobs in a top-down organization when I did more than was expected, more than was asked for, thinking I'd be rewarded for my initiative I was told, "Who asked this?" At some top-down organizations there is no extra credit for doing more. In fact, you could have some points deducted. The best approach at some organizations simply is to find out the top two or three things that your employer wants, and then just deliver it to them. Let's move to the next slide. At your current employer, if it is a top-down organization, your immediate boss has a disproportionate amount of control over your career at the company. I don't care how good or how smart you are at a top-down organization your immediate boss has a disproportionate amount of control over your company. You may have made a great impression with the firm's president or some other senior executive, impressing those people and turning them into your sponsors can be very helpful, but if your contact with them is frequent, infrequent rather, infrequent, they may not get involved in the review process. Every performance review view that I was given included just two people; my immediate supervisor, and sometimes the person above them. At most firms, the performance review is delegated downward in the organization. It is believe that your immediate supervisor knows you best. Whatever you think of your current boss is make sure that you get along well with them. Often the most successful people in organizations do just average work, but a very good, very good indeed skilled at flattering their bosses. It's a fact human beings love to be told how great they are. If flattery seems unnatural to you, don't do it. In my opinion, it could, would appear to be artificial just be friendly, and keep the disagreements with your boss to an absolute minimum. Do those things and you will be fine. When I look back at the times when I was promoted, or witnessed others who were promoted, they got along well with superiors, colleagues, and those below them on the organization chart. They got along well with everybody. They knew the business well enough, but were not necessarily the most knowledgeable. They also exuded a level of confidence, which while appearing, without appearing it's important, without appearing to be cocky or threatening. A promotion should appear to be to everyone involved a natural next step. The practical reason for promoting people who get along with everybody is simple. When a CEO of a top-down company wants to implement a decision they need the cooperation of everyone up and down the line. If you're currently in a non-supervisory position given an opportunity to lead a project team make every effort to be successful. It will make you better qualified for a promotion. Remember, the skills that are necessary to managing people are different from the skills necessary to managing individual tasks. It's two different things. Historically, this has been illustrated by the classic story of the best performing salesperson being promoted to sales manager, and the newly appointed sales manager being at a complete loss as to what to do. Once I had a series of interviews with a large brokerage firm. I met with four people, the director of research. the head of equities, the analyst in charge of technology research, I was a technology analyst, and a fellow analyst. I thought I had done poorly, I thought I had done poorly in each of the interviews. After the interview process was wrapped up, the company was eager to hire me. I thought I hadn't done well, but they were eager to hire me. They offered me a significant, significant increase in pay. They wanted me to start immediately. I was flattered. I took the bait. It was a mistake. I found out all too late that the culture of the firm, and my work style were completely different. At times it seemed I couldn't do anything right. I tried everything but whatever I did it was wrong. I didn't realize that at the time of the interviews, because there was no tangible proof of a problem, but my gut was telling me that I had done poorly, was telling me not to take the job. A few years ago the firm closed. Often during an interview you'll be asked if you have any questions. I'm not a big fan of this portion of the interview, because I believe that you can only get into trouble with the wrong question. One HR official once told me, "You should say that you have no questions." I wouldn't necessarily go that far, because in my opinion it might suggest that you have no interest in the job, even if you do. What I to do, and least this has worked for me is I have one question, what do you find are the common characteristics of people who are successful in this position that I'm interviewing for? After you've heard their answer give several examples from recent jobs where you've had similar experience. Sometimes you believe you've done well in an interview, and that you're well qualified, and the person behind the desk thinks you're well qualified, but the interviewer tells you explicitly that your chances are not good. I suggest you taking calculated risks, quote, and these are my words, "I understand that you might not hire me, but do you know of any other firms that are hiring?" In one interview I did just that. I was told to contact Brian at a boutique firm that I had never heard of. I wrote a letter to Brian, this was in the days of snail mail, and three days later I received a call from an excited Brian, "When can you come in for an interview?" I had several interviews with Brian's firm. From the moment that the interviews began it was clear that they wanted to hire me. I was the type of person they were looking for. Several weeks later I was working for the company. If I hadn't asked the question, "Do you know of any other firms that are hiring?" I would not have gotten that job. Let's move to the next slide, please. Over the course of my career I interviewed over a dozen job applicants, maybe more, maybe a lot more. In my opinion, a job interview is only about 25% about your qualifications, and 75% about your fit with the firm. If you have a degree from Booth, and you've worked for several years in a similar position, it is assumed that you can probably handle the job. When I interviewed someone I would ask myself at least internally, "Could I work with this person? Would I wanna be with this person next Tuesday?" Well, this may be the first time that you have met with a person behind the desk, try to align your comments, and adapt your tone to be in sync with them, attempt to read your body language, and react accordingly. I recognize that sometimes it may be difficult to do during a Zoom interview. Keep your responses to questions, succinct and direct. This will be an interesting story. In the mid 1990s, I was interviewed by the director of research at an institutional research boutique for a job as a computer networking analyst. I would follow computer networking firms. The boutique had posted several analyst openings with Chicago's Alumni Placement Office. The interview started out well. The director of research had previously met with me in 1992 when he was at another firm. He was therefore familiar with my background. In fact, in our mid 1990s meeting he showed me my 1992 resume, one second place. Sorry for the interruption. So he had shown me, this was a mid 90s, several years thereafter, he showed me my 1992 resume. In 1992, the interview had gone well, but I appear to be overqualified for the junior analyst opening that his firm had. In the mid 1990s meeting he asked me to name my favorite stock, and it went downhill after that. I told him what I thought was the safe answer, "Cabletron," I said. Cabletron EPS regularly exceeded Wall Street estimates, and consistently generated 20% after tax margins. Its primary competitor, Fay Networks appeared to be disorganized, and the valuation was reasonable. It was the wrong answer. "I can't stand all the people who come in here and recommend Cabletron." He then stood up and he was about six foot four, and he dismissed me from his office. The interview was over. He'd actually done me a favor. 25 years later, I still don't know why he didn't like Cabletron, but he probably wasn't gonna like my other recommendations. It wasn't me or anyone else who came in and recommended Cabletron, rather than hiring someone from inside the boutique ended up hiring or promoting rather a junior analysts to fill the opening. The bottom line I hadn't done or said anything wrong. Try to be on time for interviews. In 1997, I had trouble sneaking away from the office for a midday interview. The owner of the firm that I was at at the time decided that day that he was gonna spend a significant amount of time around my desk, and as a result I was five minutes late to the interview. The person I met with was not understanding. The interview started with me, and it wasn't funny at the time, in a losing position from which I could not recover beyond time. Don't keep the interviewer waiting for you. I have some thoughts regarding resumes. Now there are professionals, people who specialize in this area, specializes in resumes, and they probably no more than me. However, I will tell you what I found out that worked. Before the advent of machines that could scan resumes, people would spend no more than 30 seconds screening your resume. They don't spend much time reading your resume, so make it as easy for them as possible to read it, use bullet points rather than paragraphs. In my opinion, a resume should be no longer, this is my opinion mind you, than a page and a half. Your most recent job should have the longest description, followed in land by your second most recent job, followed in land by your third most recent job. The goal is to show career progression even when it doesn't exist. Try to quantify your accomplishments such as how much you added to revenues, or how much to cut costs. In effect show that you are productive and can immediately add to the firm's profits. If you wanted to change careers don't get tied up with industry jargon or job titles. Emphasize how your current skills would be applicable to your new position, provide some examples of your accomplishments that would be of interest to employers, regardless of industry. Examples would include the introduction of new products, successfully entering new markets, generating record sales, exceeding profit objectives, and leading several project teams, always completing the work on schedule and under budget. If you're switching positions be flexible with your title. When I moved from Rockwell International to Arthur D. Little in my career, Rockwell being a manufacturing company, a Fortune 100 company, Arthur D. Little being a consulting company, I decreased or retreated in terms of title wherever receives an immediate increase in pay, followed by several more increases. My subsequent move to Wall Street would not have been possible, it wouldn't have been possible without the consulting experience on my resume, and the confidence that came with it. My job title at Arthur D. Little proved to be meaningless. Place your education including your degree from Booth on the first page of your resume, perhaps at the top. If it had, if you've taken continuing education classes from a prestigious university add that to the first page as well. The person reading the resume may never get to the second page. The producer, Samuel Goldwyn, the Goldwyn and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Sorry for the... gap here. The famous Samuel Goldwyn. Lots of interesting quotes, so you can look him up on Wikipedia. But one of his quotes he said, "The harder I work the luckier I get." I agree with Samuel Goldwyn. You can create your own luck through hard work. Try to be the best performing person in your organization or department. It doesn't mean being cutthroat, in fact, it means just the opposite. Let's probably go to the next slide. Okay we're not there yet, but we'll get there in a couple of minutes. Try to be the best performing person in your organization. It doesn't mean being cutthroat, in fact, it means just the opposite. Work harder than anyone else, or being friendly with everyone around you. Some people won't appreciate your work effort, but others who are more important will. In one of my jobs a fellow worker once told me, "You must read everything." Indeed, for the stocks that interested me most I had to be, and I tried to be, and I had to be the most knowledgeable person. If your role is analytical sometimes you have to play amateur detective. Occam's razor, "The simplest solution is most likely the right one," applies more often than we care to admit. Let me tell you about one of the best stock calls that I've made. In December 1999, I was following a firm called Antec, it doesn't exist anymore. Antec's best offering or latest offering was supplying equipment that allowed cable operators to offer voice service. Antec had signed an agreement with AT&T in November 1998, covering the purchase of a minimum of $50 million worth of cable equipment with a potential value of up to 900 million. This was expected to power Antec's growth over the next several years. Antec supplies various of products to AT&T, but the most important was host digital terminals, which was a rack of electronic equipment and a high margin product. Remember, the host digital terminals were a high margin product. During 1999, AT&T accounted for 42% of Antec's total revenues. Any changes in AT&T's buying patterns could have a major impact on Antec's results. On December 6, 1999, I attended an AT&T analyst meeting in New York. During a break I asked a senior AT&T executive if AT&T was increasing its orders for Antec's high marginal host digital terminals. Nobody said AT&T had sufficient supplies. I inquired of pricing for host digital terminals was stable. "No," he responded, "Prices for high margin host digital terminals were coming down." Those were not the answers that I was expecting. I had assumed that shipments of the high margin host digital terminals would grow at an accelerating rate, but as I said Instead, the executive from AT&T said, "We have a sufficient number and the prices are coming down." The following day, December 7, 1999, I downgraded Antec to hold from buy. The stock dropped 17% in just one day. In mid December Antec publicly disagreed with my downgrade, and the other analysts covering the stock maintain their buy ratings. One competitor suggested that I should undo my downgrade. On December 29 at mid day trading in Antec shares was halted. The company pre-announced disappointing results for the fourth quarter. Operating income would be as much as 50% below analyst expectations. Not surprisingly at least to me the shortfall reflected fewer than expected host digital terminal shipments, and a lower than expected gross margin. The AT&T official, of course, had told me that the company had, the customer had a sufficient number of post digital terminals and prices were declining. Until December 29, Antec maintain it was no change in its business. Antec shares dropped the further 22% after trading resumed. The stock declined by over 40% from December 6 to December 29. That afternoon, Joe Kernan of CNBC, who tends to be negative with respect to analysts, congratulated me for the December 7 downgrade. The lesson I learned is if you wanna know a company's prospects talk to their customers. The customers will tell you how the business is really doing. The saying stay close to the customer remains valid. In addition, if you have the facts on your side, quietly maintain the courage of your convictions, because you'll probably be proven correct. At some of my jobs I was in the office on Sunday afternoons. I got a lot more done without the interruptions that occur on weekdays. On one job on a Sunday afternoon, I received a call from one of our largest and most important clients, a money manager based in Boston. I asked the client "How did you know that I was in the office?" She replied, "Everyone knows that you're always working." Doing those things will eventually help you in ways you can't even imagine. For example, in 2000 and 2006, when I wasn't even looking to change jobs, I was contacted by executive recruiters representing two of the largest, and most prestigious investment banks in the US. The searches occurred and my name came up, because word had gotten around that I was an employee worth hiring. If you're a hard worker, are knowledgeable, and are well regarded by both customers and your competitors you will gain the attention of executive recruiters. Trust me, it has happened multiple times during the course of my career. In addition, keep your LinkedIn profile current. As some recruiters scan LinkedIn for potential candidates, you probably realize it. I admit that the being, it's a tough balancing act to the high profile without appearing to be promotional; however, long term career advancement is often dependent upon people outside of your current employer being aware of your success. When I graduated from GSB in 1978, once Booth was known in those days, a majority of the graduates had no prior work experience, not like today where they have four or five years of work experience typically. I was one of the people with no work experience and being granted an MBA. In fact, I was just 23. The first job that I took was at Rockwell, a fortune 100 company at the headquarters in Pittsburgh. I spent six years at Rockwell. Rockwell hired from Chicago because while at Booth no relationship today, but unfortunately, but Chicago MBA class of 1948, and a former Ford executive was Rockwell CFO from '68 to '74. At Rockwell, he began recruiting from business schools including Chicago. After four months on the job I was given an assignment in the Corporate Financial Planning Department. Most people consider that position a demotion. The assignment had nothing to do with my ability or initial performance. They desperately needed someone to do the job. I had approached the undesirable job with zeal. I didn't care if people thought it was a demotion. At the end of my first year at Rockwell, they told me they were going to give me the largest salary increase of any analysts in the department. They were pleased with the fact that I had taken a job that no one had wanted, and that I had approached it with zeal. They now wanted me to handle the most difficult job in the Corporate Financial Planning Department, the Balance Sheet Analyst. I will be responsible for forecasting the company wide balance sheet, forecasting the company wide cash flow statement, and generating monthly forecast of interest income. All of my predecessors in the job had been CPAs. I was not a CPA not even close. I had only taken the two required accounting classes at that time at Chicago. I now would have to show what I knew about accounting. The balance sheet analyst job we didn't have any PCs. We didn't have any apples. We didn't have any IBM's. There were no Mac's, those didn't come out till 1984. The job was incredibly complex, taking inputs from a variety of people in the controllers and treasurer's office, and from each of the major operating groups. I worked Rockwell's corporate office, or viewed it as being like a pizza. I apologize for the analogy here, big and round and fairly flat. There wasn't much room for advancement. In 1980, I transfer to the companies aerospace business in Los Angeles. Once again, I was given an unpopular assignment being responsible for the monthly analysis of one of Rockwell's most unprofitable divisions. No one could be expected to turn the division around, or to fully understand what the heck was going on. The goal was to contain the damage. What as I said the job was unpopular. No one else wanted it, but they assigned it to me. I made myself an expert on the division. For a few months I was asked or after a few months I was asked to deliver a presentation on the division to senior executives of our operating group. This was my opportunity to impress those senior executives. I believe I blew everyone away. The following morning the president of our operating group told several executives including the people who I directly work for, as well as, me that I had done a great job. I had built some credibility. In 1981, when President Reagan restarted the B-1 program, I was promoted by Rockwell to a manager of financial planning and analysis position after turning an unpopular assignment, analyzing the money losing division into a success, I believe the promotion was inevitable. The conclusion if you're given an unpopular assignment, and it'll probably happen to most of you during the course of your career, don't reject it embrace it, and try to turn it to your advantage. By 1984, it appeared to me that there wasn't much time and much opportunity for additional promotions. I will now turn to the next slide. Okay, great. I found there are three times when you should consider changing jobs. When opportunities for further advancement, or promotion are limited, and this was certainly that case. Two, when your interests or your work style change from those of your employer. In other words, there's some sort of culture conflict. Or three, when the financial condition of your employer becomes particularly strained, usually signaled in advance by increased employee turnover. Next slide. Arthur D. Little a consulting firm was expanding its office in Los Angeles. They placed an ad in the Los Angeles Times. Arthur D. Little stated in the ad that they were looking for MBAs with experience in forecasting cash flow. Remember, I had been previously a balance sheet analyst at a Fortune 100 company and a key part of my responsibility is putting together assembling and producing the monthly cash flow forecast for the company. So they were looking for analysts, people with experience and forecasted cash flow. Of course that was me. I emphasized how my experience at Rockwell met all the requirements that was mentioned in the ad. I ignored the differences. When I came in for the interview they told me that they valued Chicago graduates. I was at Arthur D. Little for three years as a financial consultant. While the hours were long the job was fun, I gained exposure to a wide variety of industries; apparel, chemicals, consumer packaged goods, the pencil electronics, in real estate. Not so much commonality in there, but it was an exposure to a wide variety of businesses. My work was largely unsupervised, and I was given very little direction, as long as I completed a project on time, within budget, and most importantly, kept the client pleased. The model was clearly collaborative, and each consultant was semi-autonomous. Remember, I felt that I had always done better, or at least now in retrospect, had done better when the job had a greater amount of freedom. However, by 1987, the constant travel and long hours were starting to wear me down. I needed a change in careers. I realized that what I was doing in Arthur D. Little was a kin to securities analysis. I was looking at different companies reviewing their business prospects, generating financial forecasts, and determining what they were worth. Since I wanted to stay in Los Angeles, I contacted the directors of research. There's the six brokerage firms that were headquartered in the city. In my cover letter I emphasized how my work was similar to securities analysis. Once again, I ignored what I perceived to be the differences two of the firms responded, and one extended an offer. I started work at Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards in March 1987. I would also add at this point, you know, taking a look at the slide that's on the screen. Don't be pinned down by job titles or industry jargon. Focus are your skills and accomplishments that would be of interest to a potential employer regardless of industry, so those are important items. Let's move to the next slide. The timing of my departure from Arthur D. Little worked out well. Employee turnover had started to increase in late 1986. The level of business activity began declining several months after I left, by 1989, the division was spun off. The increased employee turnover and late 1986 before the business started turning down proved to be an excellent leading indicator. I'm gonna go a little bit out of order here, but I think this is extremely important. In the course of my career I have seen on five occasions a sudden unexplained increase in employee turnover by people who are either the most marketable, or the best performing, clearly the leaders, the superstars, people who have no difficulty getting another job. And I've seen this happen without any kind of explanation, and they appear to leave in groups, in batches. Business is still, it appears to be fine, sales are at record levels. What I have found, and this has happened to me it's not a large statistical sample, what I have found five times was that it was a leading indicator, it was like the inverted yield curve, it was like when the Federal Reserve changes monetary policy. I can't predict exactly when the next major layoff occurs, or there's a sudden downturn in sales, the lags vary, like an inverted yield curve anywhere from three to 12 months, but when you start seeing people for some unexplained reason the stars of the firm just leaving in batches, and everything seems to be fine, that's a telltale indicator that something unfortunate is gonna happen in three to 12 months, and keep that in mind when you're looking at your career. The director of research while I was Bateman Eichler said that he expected analysts to be creative. We did everything possible to meet his expectation. Each analyst operated a semi-autonomous profit center, keep finding unique ways of contributing to the bottom line. There was an entrepreneurial aspect element to the job, and we weren't given specific guidance as how to be additive. The changing economics of the brokerage business over the past three decades including declining commission levels, the rise of index funds, the introduction of quantitative investing, and increases in market efficiency mean that the levels of independence that we enjoyed at Bateman Eichler may never be matched. The analysts that Bateman Eichler made predictions that might have appeared to be outlandish, or were based on logic and often proved to be correct. For example, on February 21, 1989, I know this is a few decades ago, three decades ago and a year I guess. In February 1989, I predicted that Lockheed would announced a major restructuring plan, including sales of real estate and non-core assets by April. The report was quoted in "Barron's". I was told by the company that I was way off base. Lockheed ended up announcing a major restructuring program, including sale of real estate and non-core assets on April 4th 1989. The Lockheed official who had told me that I was way off base apologized. I had no source, no sources in Lockheed that told me that something would happen by April, but that was my best judgment. And at the time, we were encouraged to make forecasts that might appear to be outlandish, but were based on solid facts and solid logic. As an aerospace analyst I specialized in covering classified programs such as stealth, an area avoided or ignored by boast analysts. I had significantly less competition, that's key, go to areas where there's less competition. From a research point of view this area of focus allowed me to achieve my greatest success. One of the most highly classified programs was the A-12 Advanced Tactical Aircraft, a carrier based stealth attack plane which is being developed by General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas. I collected all of the publicly available information on the A-12. There was no internet, there was no Google search engine. Remember, this was 1990. The information was scattered in a variety of articles, and newspapers, and trade press publications. I spent hours, I was based in Los Angeles, spent hours in the stacks of the UCLA Business School Library. I looked at the scraps of information that I had collected and initially didn't see a pattern. Then I made a discovery based in part on an offhand comment during a brief conversation that I had with General Dynamics, one of the two contractors. In isolation the comment made no sense, but suddenly everything fit. There had been absolutely no public disclosures anywhere about the program's cost performance. The only way that the authentic comment made briefly just another insight by General Dynamics made sense was if the program was over budget, and then the two contractors who shared the work 50/50 had some sort of disagreement, and they did in fact have a disagreement, but no one knew it, no one would discuss it. Since this was a fixed price contract, not one of these government cost plus contracts just add the bill. It was a fixed price contract like a commercial contract, General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas would have serious problems that the program went over budget. I knew about government contracts from my work at Rockwell and looking at the publicly available details on this particular contract, I realized that the companies had signed a terrible contract. I certainly wouldn't have signed it. On February 2nd 1990, I issued a report that this heavily classified A-12 program was likely over budget, and there was a high probability that the companies would face significant losses. I said investors should avoid these stocks, no one paid attention. Internally, the Navy, the officers in the suits reached the same conclusion of budget overrun was likely, however, it was a major cover up just not Watergate, or other things. This was a major cover up inside the Defense Department, and the information was kept from Secretary of Defense Cheney, Dick Cheney for months, and a meeting on March 28, nearly two months after my report was publicly released. The Navy finally warn Cheney that there could be a $500 million cost overrun. He told them to go back take another look at the figures. On April 3rd, the estimate of the overrun was revised to $1 billion. The government and the contractors did not immediately disclose the problems to the public. While they attempted to see if the problems could be fixed. On Friday June 8, after the market close General Dynamics, one of the two contractors warned of a possible write off. On Monday June 11, I was quoted in the Wall Street Journal as an expert, I just issued one report, but there hadn't been any other reports. I was quoted as an expert on the A-12 program. The program was canceled by Cheney on January 7th 1991. In February 1991, the government sued the contractors seeking the reimbursement of $1.35 billion that had previously been paid to the companies plus interest. Given the access to only a limited amount of publicly available information I knew more but close to two months about the cost performance of a major classified program. The Secretary of Defense who of course, as we all know a decade later became vice president. You can't get any better than that. It would not have been possible without the extraordinary freedom that we were given at Bateman Eichler. During this time period, I became a regular source for the Los Angeles based aerospace correspondence with the Wall Street Journal, that being Rick Wartzman, and The New York Times that being Dick Stephenson. I was frequently quoted in both these publications, in stories involving Boeing, Lockheed who was Northrop, and Rockwell. I attributed my success in this area, so my accessibility, my ability to always provide a clever soundbite, and I don't know if that counts, the independent perspective that I provided not being based in New York, and the willingness to dig several layers deeper into the business beyond the next quarters earnings per share. There was no shortage of people focusing on the next quarter's EPS, but few who dug deep into the business. Let's go to the next slide. Okay, this is quite important. From 1998 to 2001, I worked for a midsize privately held brokerage firm as a securities analyst following telecon equipment stocks. In 1999, in 2000, I was the only analyst in the research department invited on company sponsored trips to Miami and Bermuda, okay. The company senior Managing Director for marketing told me that I was his favorite analyst. I was certainly the hardest working analyst in the department. In mid 2000 I received, I didn't ask for it, but received a significant raise, much larger than I thought I had any right to. In August 2000, I received a completely unsolicited offer from a boutique firm. I turn the offer down as I believe that the future at my current firm remain bright. For a few months my conclusion appeared to be correct. In the fall of 2000, I was promoted to managing director at the highest level available to an analyst in the research department. In December 2000, the president of the firm who rarely, rarely I didn't ever see it in fact, issued memos sent a memo to all the employees of the company praising my work. For my efforts, I received several bonuses during the course of 2000, it was just a regular stream of bonuses. My position at the firm was solid until it wasn't. On June 20th 2001, the bottom fell out. The president of the firm held a surprise staff meeting at 4 p.m. "We're closing the capital markets division, some of you will lose your jobs. I am sorry," and with that he walked out of the conference room. I still thought my job was secure. I figured that if I needed to change jobs, I could do so in my way at my own pace. At 8 a.m. the following morning I was disabused of that notion. I was shown the front page of the business section in the New York Post. There in print was an almost verbatim account of the prior day's meeting how they got it, I still don't know. According to the post at least 20 to 25 people would be let go. No numbers had been mentioned at the meeting. One week later, even though I had gone on these trips to Bermuda and Miami in December of the prior year had gotten a memo from the president sent to every employee, "Look at the great work Larry Harris is doing." One week later, I found out I was one of the first to be let go. The dismissal had nothing to do with my performance. The firm was losing money and it needed to cut its payroll. They started with the highest paid employees. Within three months the firm was sold. Suddenly, my luck started to change at 11:30am on June 21 less than four hours after I had been shown the article in the post, I received a call from a director of research of a competing firm, "We'd like to see you at 2 p.m." I was interested in meeting him, but I tried to reschedule for the following day, June 22nd. I was wearing an old suit and a blue shirt, rather than a white shirt which was standard attire at that time. I had just one copy of my resume it hadn't been updated. "No," he insisted, "I wanted to see you today." He knew something I didn't know. Over the next two weeks I received six more calls asking me to interview. Of the seven calls in total that I received, six were with firms that were populated with former colleagues. Out of the seven interviews I received two job offers. I accepted one where I felt most comfortable. One lesson that I learned from this experience was I needed to be more sensitive to the financial condition of my employer. I had ignored a stream of resignations that occurred during 2000 and the first half of 2001. My perception of the firm's financial condition and turnover were distorted by the multiple reaffirmation that I received from senior management. I never asked the people who were voluntarily leaving, why they had exited. I realized later that as I said before that a sudden unexplained increase in employee turnover, especially by the most marketable or best performing is the most accurate leading indicator of a future layoff or a downturn in the business. If you walk away with anything today it's that. Try to develop a plan B, a backup in case the unforeseen happens. Try to develop a sufficient number, a deep professional friendships that you can always have as options. We're coming to the end here I just wanna assure you. My last three jobs in 2001, 2003, and 2008 resulted from being contacted by former co-workers who wanted to hire me. Even after I retired I received offers in 2012 and '16. After my unfavorable experience in 2001, I started to maintain contact with former colleagues, but only in the most informal manner, an occasional phone call, perhaps a drink, maybe lunch, jobs were rarely discussed. I just let people know I was still around. I contacted them not because I was looking for a job, but because I wasn't. The best time to network is not when you need a job, but when you don't, when you don't. Try to develop a network of peers in your sector including people you've worked for. Attend meetings of the Booth club of New York, and groups of people who work in your sector. You're not asking these people for jobs, you're simply expanding your network of acquaintances who keep you in mind when a job opening occurs. Offer to speak at conferences, conventions in the Booth club of New York, I realized that in person conferences and conventions are currently on hold, because of the healthcare crisis. But be prepared to speak when things go live again, and I cannot emphasize this strongly enough. Finally, if your employer is reluctant to allow you to participate in one of these events, just be flexible, just indicate whatever they feel that you, that they are comfortable with you're saying do so. You don't have to reveal proprietary information. You don't have to reveal company specific information. I've seen it happen before where people speak in generalities. The key thing, however, is their profile is increased, they start getting on less of people who are key in the industry. So I would urge you, urge you to seek out public speaking engagements. Finally, and we're wrapping up and I apologize very much for going over, I really do. Continue your education beyond Booth. The job you hold today won't exist in 10 years, and that I can guarantee it. With COVID without COVID things change at an amazingly rapid rate. Four years ago, I took a series of courses at MIT. I met with the astronaut, Bob Behnken who just flew on colon, Elon Musk, not colon, Elon Musk's SpaceX. The guy spent several months on the International Space Station. I would not have met him without taking the courses that I did so four years ago in MIT. So continue your education it's important because things change, and you never know who you might meet. Well, as once again, I like to conclude here. I prepared too much material. I want to apologize for going overboard, but I think in the various slides here, we've communicated some information. I'd like to turn it over to Denise and Suzy, and I'd be available and happy to answer any questions. - [Brian] Hey Larry, it's actually Brian Egger. I hope you're doing well. - Yes, thank you, Brian. - I thought this is extremely helpful. I'm just gonna quickly, for those of you who don't know me I'm the Industry Events Chair of the Chicago Booth Online club of New York. And I think whatever your comments are extremely helpful to anybody, really, at any stage of their career. We are going to have some breakout sessions, and breakout rooms in a few minutes, which Denise will facilitate. But before we do that I thought I quickly asked the combined audience if anybody has any questions specifically for Larry that we can address, but I can certainly kick it off if there are none. But before we go into the breakout rooms that Denise will facilitate, just want to know if anybody had any more general questions for Larry if not, I'm more than happy to ask one. Well Larry, I did wanna ask one thing and please, if anyone else has anything either you can ask or save it for the breakout session, but given you know, I think the wisdom underlying all your comments. One thing I'd be curious to know is we're all living in a very different world. You've had a wealth of experience across different environments, this one perhaps being unprecedented by all our standards. But I'm just curious to know if you would think there are any directives or guidelines that individuals should keep in mind to navigate the pandemic and post pandemic world that might be different, or otherwise, more important than perhaps were the case before. Should people prepare to move forward with any particular skill set, or any particular piece of advice you're given in high relief just because the world is so different? - Yeah, that's a, it's an excellent question, Brian, and fortunately, I retired in this was 2012, but I think we're all operating independently, right now or certainly more independently than in the past, so I would illustrate on the one hand my ability to act with minimal direction. And because the economy is strained and I'm constantly amazed by companies that exceed analyst estimates. Even though that they say all but 80% of our workers are working at home. The ability to contribute to profits. The ability to and quantify it on your resume, don't be bashful. How much you contributed to sales. How much you contributed to profit. How you introduce a new product in record time or under challenging conditions. I think those kinds of talents are always valued. - Excellent, did anybody have, from the audience have any questions that have a more general nature before we go into the breakout networking rooms? - [Suzy] Hey, this is Suzy. I think maybe what we need to do is that if you guys want to ask questions, you can do it in the chat function, or use the reaction with your thumbs up if you wanted to ask a question, and then we'll go into Denise is preparing the breakout rooms for us, so then we can go into that. So as you guys are thinking about how you're gonna ask your questions, or if you wanted ask a question in the public forum. My question to you, Larry, thanks so much that was really helpful. And I couldn't agree more around the idea of taking more classes. How did you decide what topics to continue your education in, and which schools or institutions to do? Because right now with COVID there's so many people offering classes and certificates. - Yes absolutely, it's a cottage industry, and well, I'll tell you the classes that I took. First I took some classes through edX, E-D-X and Coursera. Unfortunately, the University of Chicago doesn't offer, and may have changed, but the last time I checked doesn't offer many courses through those programs. Those are one off courses in most cases, the cost is fairly nominal a hundred, $200. You get a certificate. I have taken such classes, some classes in those areas from Oxford, from if I might say I mentioned Penn Wharton, from MIT and other schools. I have taken classes is on campus, and they're probably suspended right now from MIT. That's where I met the astronaut Bob Behnken, and I earned what they call an Advanced Certificate for Executives, and it's basically the equivalent of their Advanced Management Program and requires 25 days on campus. At Oxford, I took two classes, one was and offered in conjunction with the University of Chicago. The other one wasn't. They were both week long classes at the campus in June. In Oxford, one was the Oxford Chicago Valuation Program taught in conjunction with Booth, and then the other one was a class in negotiation, which is something I could have used 20 years to go. I would also recommend that you take, and I'm probably beyond that, but you take one or two classes in computer coding. For example, if you're in the investments area I would strongly recommend taking a class in Python, and if you have any facility in any of the current computer languages, I would definitely put it on the front page of your resume. - That was so (mumbles). I think we just had one question, maybe to finish up before we go to the break rooms and chat. I'm curious to know given the renewed emphasis on diversity in the corporate workplace in a corporate American stage just any suggestions about individuals wishing to really contribute to helping foster that kind of environment, and ways to now navigate the world in a way that we could all be sensitive to the importance of that. - You know, that's a tough question because I work from '78 to 2012, and things definitely changed, and for the better during that 34 year time horizon certainly, you know, corporations are, I hope I'm saying the right things here, corporations are sensitive to hiring people of color. I'm glad to see that we're seeing women like the first woman CEO with Citi group, but I don't have any specific suggestions for that area, but I'm glad to see it happening. - Excellent, I think we are ready for the breakout rooms. I think maybe Denise is gonna help facilitate that, but first, I want to thank Larry why we're in this public forum for everything he said. - Thank you and (mumbles). - I think it's extremely useful whether you're in the early, intermediate, or more senior stages of your career. I guess I falls properly into the latter category even though I don't want to admit it, and I wanna thank everybody for the time, and will allow Denise to facilitate the one on one networking. 