 There's a lot going on right now that's creating a lot of uncertainty amongst business leaders. And while I could go into that, there's more than enough information out there without me hammering it over the head or adding to the noise. But one thing I have found very interesting through all of this is the increase in remote work. Remote work has already been getting more commonplace for a while with... But now remote work is becoming a much needed band-aid to productivity. Work still needs to be done and with that communication upheld. The surge in demand for Zoom is a very big indicator for this. In fact it's also a big indicator for the need for video communication. Whilst text and audio based messaging will always have a strong foundation the way we do business, video can convey ideas a lot more easily. It boils down to the concept of showing versus telling. Sometimes we really need to see something in action to understand it fully. Think about the surge in online courses over the past few years. They resonate because people can see results and processes in action. I've always loved video for this reason. Being able to come up with creative ways to navigate ideas and showcase them an audience. That challenge is immensely satisfying to overcome. But with this news going on it has made me appreciate another aspect to video. It's made me appreciate the fact that I can do these videos anywhere. As a matter of fact a lot of the business I've done over the past few years has been done remotely. I spent half a year traveling across Southeast Asia and last year I spent working and living in Spain and Portugal. All of this whilst working from a laptop - creating video content for businesses and brands across the world to drive meaningful results. As with anything there was learning curves to the process, but once I understood how time zones worked in particular I started get the swing of things pretty quickly. Working remotely in Southeast Asia in particular taught me a lot. Not just about business but about life. About the things we take for granted and sometimes the things we even over complicate. And video is no different in this regard. These days the barriers of entry could not be easy to bypass. We all have cameras, some are just packaged differently. It could be a smartphone or it could be a DSLR. The point is  they all have great capabilities. Working remotely is going to be challenging for many, but one of the most important things you can do as a leader is to put yourself out there in front of your clients and customers. Show up,  even when you're away from the office. With remote video you don't have to rely on external factors. You don't have to worry about a videographer. You don't have to worry about other people's time. And you don't even have to worry about leaving the house. You just have to make use of what time you already do have available and use what you have at your disposal. Putting yourself out there shows that you're still willing to lead in uncertain times, and it shows that you're still around to provide solutions to people's problems. It's a pivot but it doesn't need to be too dramatic. Because if you're already using Zoom for example or Skype you're already using video as a means of communication. It's just an extra step. One that makes use of your time and it shows your customers and clients that you're still here. If you're looking for advice on the best way to do this then please send me a message, I'd be happy to help set you on the right track. 