 Good morning, everybody. Thank you for coming. We're all well separated aren't we, but it's lovely to see your faces   this morning, thank you for joining us. We've got a couple more that are coming,   but we're going to get underway. My name is Leanne Kelly. I   have the wonderful job of being the coordinator of galleries and   museums for the Morton Bay Regional Council. This one that you're in today is one of our   three museums and three galleries. So if you haven't been to any others,   I'm sure the ladies will give you a brochure. I want to start today most importantly,    by acknowledging the traditional owners  of the land that we're meeting on today.    I want to pay my respects to their  elder's past, present and emerging    and acknowledge that their stories and their  life are continuing in this region to this day. We're doing research at the moment for a project  that will be realized in a couple of years, but it came up in that research that not  far, literally just down on the river, which is very close to here, you could walk down. Was one of the main encampments North of Brisbane. And I didn't realize that. And so when, European Settlement   first started to move through this region in just after Brisbane became not a penal colony,  there were number of camps down on the  river, which is actually quite beautiful.  I didn't know that about that  it was so close to where we are.  So they're the kind of stories you're  going to see here in coming times.  I'm here to introduce our wonderful guests  today, this conversation starter series,  for those of you who've been here before, is our way of having conversations  where the past informs the future. And as a heritage museum, we  tell lots of historical stories. We have lots of fantastic photos, and  we also tell lots of amazing stories that when we talk about them,  they really resonate today. Earlier this year, we had an  exhibition called Making Do, and it was focused, but continued on  from the idea of a hundred years ago, believe it or not in the great depression,  ironic where we find ourselves now, the whole idea of making do wasn't maybe  a political thing or a personal choice, it was actually how you survived. So whether it was making do with what you   owned or what you ate or what you wore, it was actually an ethos of life,   and so we kind of explored that, you know, we have some amazing things and out of that   came the predecessor to this conversation, which Jane actually hosted then as well. So today is a follow on from that pre isolation, pre another world was a conversation  starter about supporting local farmers and it was quite a profound morning. Actually, I'm not ashamed to say I shed   a couple of tears at some of the stories that were told that morning because   they were actually very moving and profound. So it's wonderful to invite Jane   and two new guests to be with us today. Jane has an Instagram account,   like all the cool things do these days, even I do and I'm not that cool. So, if you follow Jane, she is a  conversation starter, that's who she is, and I was really excited that  she's joined us again today. I almost think of you as a  friend of our museum now, because I love, we love having you here. Jane's here to start some more   conversations today. We have two guests today,   a little bit of Jane's background. She is a communications professional,   and I think you kind of still are, aren't you? That will probably follow you your whole life. She grew up on a farm. She studied agricultural science. She worked for decades in rural journalism. Again, starting conversations and she   was also in communications advocacy, running public awareness campaigns so,   she's a past president and life member of the Royal press club and,   Queensland's 2010 runner up. Good grief. Who won it?   That's what I want to know. The runner up of the rural women's award. After completing her postgraduate  leadership study, Jane set up textile beat, which is how I've come to know Jane in 2013 to share an appreciation for natural   fibers and slow clothing philosophy. She's wearing her workmanship today. So that's how I now, in the beauty of 2020, the gift that keeps on giving Jane's here with us,  but she was meant to be the other  places a long way from here.  And she'll share a bit of that story today. Her two guests we're going to actually  ask them to tell their own story. We've got Peter Kearney, who's joined us today. Peter s connected to Mill and   Farm in Samford Valley. He's the founder of that farm, and he's going to tell us  a little bit about his life in the Samford Valley for the last 23 years. And Jane's got lots of great questions. Jacki's going to tell us  about a really fancy salad. That's what I want to know about. That's what I've honed in on. But apart from the really fancy salad she  has a fantastic story about Blue Dog Farm. So please join me in welcoming them  and for this conversation today and thank you for coming again today and  being beautifully socially distanced. I really appreciate it. We can let some people sit down just  before we start, come on in and again, so thank you, I'm going to hand over to Jane. Thank you so much, Leanne. It's wonderful to be back at  Pine Rivers Heritage Museum for our conversation starter  Conscious Consumerism, closer, fresher, better and Leanne was  mentioning the making do exhibition, I was really proud to have what I call my  history skirt as a feature in that museum and it was because of that I used it on  the front cover of my book, Slow Clothing. So anyway, I was back here in February  before our world turned upside down with the global pandemic and that challenged  the way we live and exposed vulnerabilities and how we source food, clothing,  personal protective equipment, and many other things as you'd be well aware. A recent report from Deloitte A Shock  to the Food System was its title, suggests flaws caused by long rigid supply  chains that disconnect producers and consumers and result in a lot of food loss  up to 30% and value distortion. Public health experts suggest COVID-19  is just one of a line of pandemics in our globalised world caused  by ecological pressures and   population growth and other things. So, you know, this is our future. The link between food and  health does seem obvious, but what we eat or don't eat is actually a  leading contributor to non-communicable diseases that affect our quality of life  and drain health care systems. Two thirds of Australian adults are overweight and  I'm ashamed to say I'm actually in that category and at higher risk of chronic diseases, such as  type two diabetes, heart disease and some cancers, and that also makes us more  vulnerable to coronavirus. So food security became an issue early  in the early stages of the pandemic, as you'd know, people stockpiled,  supermarket shelves were emptied and that caused the National Farmers Federation to  actually issue an assurance to Australians that, we do produce enough food for 75 million people, more than three times our  population, but localism is arising. We know that there's some food out there, but we're actually today looking talking  about closer fresher food sources, that are literally in our own  backyard and how we can support and grow nutritious local nutrient  dense food for preventive health. So my name is Jane Milburn, I'm a Churchill  fellow actually, but I'm untraveled. So, I'm currently doing a permaculture  design course at Northey Street Farm, and I know Jacki has also done a PDC as well, learning about ethics and design principles that  enable resilience, regeneration and abundance. We've got these fabulous local food  producers and educators here today, Jackie Hinchey from Blue Dog  Farm and Reco Ring, Dayboro, and also Peter Keirney from My  Food Garden in the Samford Valley. So they're going to be talking across a range  of topics, sourcing and using local produce, advice for achieving self-sufficiency  in backyards and small gardens, as well as the exciting  potential of urban agriculture. So instead of actually introducing them, I'm going to get them to give  you a two-minute elevator pitch, not that we're going to necessarily  time it just so they can say in their own words, who they are and what they do. So we'll start with you, Jacki. Hi, I'm Jacki from Blue Dog Farm,  and I have a small market garden, it's 10 by 20 metres, so it's about  probably three times the size, maybe not three times the size of this room and I very intensively grow  about 15 different crops. Some of them, which you might know,  a rocket and lettuce and baby kale and then there are many that you wouldn't know. But I throw them all into a salad mix  together and it includes petals and herbs so that it's something that is interesting  and a bit fancy and very diverse. So the leaves are from many different families, so they've got very different  nutrient capabilities. So they're better for your tummy  than having a bit of spinach, and what else do they, spinach and lettuce? I think that’s what they call a  salad mix down at the supermarket. So, I mixed, I grow them, my word for  it is that I grow them thoughtfully. There is no way that I would  use a chemical fertilizer, fungicide, pesticide, or  herbicide anywhere on my property. And my plants are all just nourished  through mostly a lot of it is processes and just applying   nutrients or instigators of nutrients at  the right time throughout the growing cycle. My salad is available only locally,   so I don't want it that supply  chain to get long and complicated. I'm only growing it for my own community, here in Morton Bay and around  the Northern suburbs of Brisbane. So there I can make a living and I have to say that I'm not responsible providing  all of our families income, but I can make a living for  myself from my little garden and also a little bit more from  the grass fed beef that we grow and same thing sell direct to our customers. That's Blue Dog Farm. Oh, I should explain that Blue  Dog Farm is called Blue Dog Farm because we've got a very loud and bossy blue dog  who thinks that it actually says Blue Dog’s Farm, and that she is the Boss  and that I am her employee. And it's a fabulous place to visit  too, I came out there recently. We'll get back to more of that soon, but Peter, perhaps, can we hear your  two minutes spiel, please? Did you say two minutes? I'm not timing you. Well, you mentioned backyard before  so, my journey into urban food growing started in my backyard in  Melbourne when I was 10 years old and that's a very long time ago and in  having moved to Queensland about 30 years ago and out into Samford Valley, 24 years ago to  send our children to the Samford Steiner school. We, we've been on an acreage ever since, and  I significantly increased my food growing and started to sell food and began to study  organic and biodynamic growing methods. And really we,   we as a family, decided that we would only  eat organic food and we had four children, we have four children and, just, I  needed to grow a lot more food to, to stick to that ethic really  that we chose for our family so, and I'd realized quite some time before that  having been involved in quite intellectual work in software design and, accounting and stuff  that as soon as I got my hands in the dirt, I started to get healed, it was like  this beautiful rejuvenation process. So, I had this higher purpose in a sense for  growing but when, when we made that decision to, to eat organic food, it really  started to and to grow more, it opened my eyes a lot more to   the dysfunction of our food system and  the weaknesses that were evolving in it. And that there's so many wicked problems  in it that you could look at it and say, well, what can I do? You know, it's  just all, it looks all too hard, but I think it really does start  in your backyard and so for me, I started our business, my  food garden 14 years ago. And now we run lots of organic and  biodynamic food growing workshops. We have a lot of clients who we coach and design,  I just come from a food garden job this morning. My son, who I was working with said to me, dad,  why don't you go in your grungy gardening gear, but yeah, I did change, and we also do  consulting on larger urban agriculture projects. So I'm very, very, very interested  in the transformational potential of getting small scale intensive  food growing into smaller spaces. I have a patch the same size as yours,   and I'm always experimenting with  intensification of production and I teach that in our workshops  too. So. Yes. Is that enough? Yeah, that's great. Yes, that was  exactly what I was going to do. Just to check in with our  audience. Who's already gardening? Who's already growing a lot of their  own food? So maybe half of you. Yeah. One parsley plant is a garden. It's okay. That's all you need to start. Isn't that Jacki? So, nutrition density of your salad,  I mean, your salad is very beautiful. I know from having tasted it. And in fact, you motivated me to  diversify the range of little plants that I've got growing in my,  my little green space there. And I'm self-sufficient now, which is fabulous, but the nutrient density of  these things that are leaves that are grown in a non-broad scale situation. Can you give us some info on that? Scientifically I can't. And it's a shame. I think Peter and I both, we  know that our plants and our food are better for you than what you  can get from the supermarket. But a leaf test is about $130  per leaf, and I've got 15 crops, I would love to get them all done and then take  an average of the nutrient density of my crops, just so that I can prove that my salad is  better, but I tell you what a better measure is when mums say that their  kids are eating the salad. Now this is it's not as sweet  salad, it's quite bitter. You know, it has a lot of  rocket and mustards and sorrels. Probably the children are enticed  by it looking really interesting, diverse colors and petals, and really  unusual shaped leaves in a bowl on a table. And often I say to mums, just put it out on  the table and you eat a leaf at the time, it might not be the best table manners, but  just eat and consider what you're eating. And the children copy, they especially eat the  leaves of the salad that's got the flowers in it. I believe evolutionarily that we  would go walking along a track, possibly as these people did down to the river and  they would take leaves off plants and try them. Some of those leaves might be poisonous and they'd  get a tummy ache and they wouldn't go back to it. But otherwise subconsciously their bodies would  be working out if this is really good for me, if it isn't medicine or is  it really, really dense food? The next time that they come past  that bush, they would have it again. I 100% believe this to be true because  when I'm harvesting rocket, now, I don't know if you know, but a rocket  is associated with liver health, I don't have a liver problem,  but I'm really drawn to rocket. I love the bitter and when I'm harvesting, that's what I go for again and  again, I'd love to know why. So if you just, step back and  don't try to listen to your body, just do what you need, I think that you  end up being drawn to what you need. That, that is all that I can say about nutrient  density, because I can't prove anything. I know, I'm sure Peter's going  to have an opinion on that. Yes Peter, what's your opinion? Yes. So I think the, with the plants, if they  are, if they're looked after in the right way, then their nutrient density will be high, and what I have observed in our food growing  spaces is I don't have issues with insects and I don't have issues with  animals eating my crops, and I have no covering whatsoever  on anything on anything and so, what I know about the science  in relation to that is that the, the sugar level that is in the leaves via  the photosynthesis process can be measured, but when it gets to a certain point, the plants  become unpalatable to the insects and the animals, but they're perfect for human consumption. So, so there is, and without,  without measuring, you know, scientifically you can know that that is,  that your plants are at the right level. I mean, the, the, the insects and  animals won't be attacking them, but you can, you can know by  their form, like if their shape and their form is really, really  strong, their aroma and their flavor. So they're the three things which you can  really determine with your senses is the, from sight, you know, the form of it, the aroma  from the nose and the taste with your emails. So I think it's really important to, to try  to work with your senses as much as possible because you know, science, the science  of soil and plant is very complex and I think it's a lot better and it's worthwhile, but for most people you can garden  really well by relying on your senses. relying on your gut feel. Yes. You know, yeah, just trust  your gut and, and take it. It’s intuition isn’t it? Intuition  plays such an important part. And I'm fascinated really Peter that you’re  organic, kind of just because you can be. Whereas, you know, corporate large scale would  be using chemicals and obviously upsetting, the natural balance that's in the soil and,  and in, in your little, in your garden. So, it really, are you  totally supportive of organics or some people say that the nutrition  is not much different between, not exactly supermarket leaves, but you know, like the tests have been done to show that  there's not a great deal of difference between organic and non-organic. Okay. Well, I don't believe  those tests for a start, but I use organic practices as a platform. And then I potentize all of  those with biodynamic methods, which use these prepared herbs and manures. And I also work in time with planetary  movements and I also recognize that the consciousness of the gardener within  the patch effects the quality of the plant. So I work with those three things of, you know, potentize in the organic processes,  timing with planetary movements and   really, really concentrating when I go into the garden to have  this feeling of love for the patch, trying to clear my mind of everything  else, and every day I sit at my garden, I’ve got a special contemplation chair  that I use and have a bit of a meditation and I think about all the life that is in the  garden and the birds that are around the garden and how, you know, we can all  sort of work as a team. Yep. Very old school in a way appropriate to be  talking about this at the Heritage Museum, really that everything old is new  again, as we find that we, you know, we need to be producing more food locally. And, can you talk a bit more about the Millen Farm and the idea of more urban agriculture systems. Okay. So, so Millen Farm started out of  a really interesting community process called Samford Futures and it was really  driven by the, the Samford Parklands area, which is a large piece of land  that was a CSIRO research station and then it was subdivided, and there  was a portion that was for public use. And some master planning  had been done by the council but then this, this was about 10 years ago, I  think and Woolworth's wanted to take over Samford and the Samford community rose up  and stopped Woolworth's doing that, which was fantastic, but our local  counselor, Bob Miller said to us, so you've all got to get, we had,  there was a group of about 300 of us, he said, you've all got together to  say what you don't want in Samford, so how about you use that energy to say what  you do want for Samford and in particular, the Parklands area. So that then triggered this, three-year process of surveying the Samford  community and finding what they wanted. So, one of the areas was food and they wanted  local food and yet there was all this land, but there didn't seem to be a nexus  between there's land and we want food, but you know, nowhere near enough was being grown. So, there was resources there,  but not a way to achieve it. So that was the point of Millen Farm. So I led that group and we got, we got  the land negotiated with the council and formed the organization and  raised money and got a big following, and then eventually the farmer came along. And the point of that, the, the key  philosophy of that organization was to create, a duplicatable method of commercially  sustainable, urban farming. So, it's still striving towards that. And it's really an interesting thing  because around the world, this, that very question is being  pushed in virtually every country, about how do we, how do we  create an environment or, or opportunities for people to make a  living growing food around cities. And I think, what I've learnt from that  process and also where our business has been doing work on some  property developments as well   and planning work with Morton Bay Regional Council on more urban agriculture in the area, is  that compared to sort of the conventional farm where it makes all of its money out of  selling food the urban farming model needs to incorporate a very strong  focus on the cultural aspects. So you have education, you have, you  know, visits, you have volunteers coming, so there's this whole engagement of  local people in your, in your process. So it's sort of, to me, it brings back the  culture that, you know, the word is agri-culture, and yet it's become agri-business,  so there's a real beauty in that. And I've seen it so many times with  people coming to our gardens and workshops and in going to all sorts of urban  agriculture venues around the world, because I travel quite a bit in this space. So. It's yeah, it's really wonderful to  see how people join together over food. That's fabulous. Isn't that like? And it shows you how far  we've drifted away or that, that difference between agri-business and  agri-culture, which is around community and, and feeding ourselves and healing  ourselves through growing food is exciting. So, what proportion of land do you feel  in Morton Bay Shire has got potential or Morton Bay Council I should say, has potential, like how much could we contribute to the  needs of the community by growing it locally? Well we, in the planning work  that we've done with the council there’s been 70 hectares of land identified,  but then that excludes all private land. Which, and in other parts of Australia  or indeed in other parts of the world, there are ways for counc…local  governments are figuring out ways to, to help landowners to make land  available for urban farming. So there's thousands of hectares of land  in the region that could be used it just, but the public land, there's  a lot of public land available and how much has grown just depends on  the intensity, but you know, like, I mean, I've got a patch of 200 square  metres and I can produce, 10 kilograms of produce per  square metre, of organic produce. How much time does that take you though? Because that's often the  limiting factor, isn't it? Probably a day a week at the moment. About an episode of Master Chef every day. Yes. Yes. It's just where we  direct our time and energy that makes the difference, isn't it Jacki? Just before we move back to you,  Jacki, and hear more about your story I'd just like to keep going with  you, Peter, about, the concept that I know Richard Dennis in  his book Affluenza says that lawn is the biggest irrigated crop in America. So, I imagine in, in Morton  Bay Regional Council area, there'd be a lot of irrigated lawns  that maybe needs to be, you know, re-designed and cultivated to grow food  instead of something that's a burden. Totally. Yeah, I totally agree. And I remember when I did a presentation to  the Samford community at the community hall there was about 500 people there. And we were, this was the pitch to the  community for the whole farming thing. And, and I said to them, Samford  used to be an agricultural area and now all that land is used to  feed ride on mowers and horses. And a lot of the food we eat is  imported, how does that make sense? Like we have this incredible asset  and this beautiful climate here that allows us to grow food every day of the year. And I think that needs to come  from the ground up though. Doesn't it. In terms of  building community and change, Jackie, what views have you got there? That is spot on. It comes from us. We are so anti big ag and  so anti the supermarkets, they're just responding to our demand. So, does anyone have a bit of a veggie  garden and they're growing a bit of food? Yeah. Do you ever give a bit of what you  grow to your neighbors over the fence? Do you give it to your children or yeah. Could you imagine them  growing something and giving, what the excess of what they grow  back to you and then possibly you've got a fence between you and your  neighbor that you could put a passion fruit on. There you go, taddah! You're  starting to feed Moreton Bay, it doesn't have to come from a  government policy. It can come from you. If it comes from you, it's, it's a  lot more, well, it's demand driven. Isn't it? It's you’re leaning  over the fence and saying, can I swap some pumpkins for cabbage and then  just stop buying it from the supermarket. So it's the outsourcing, isn't it? We outsource a lot of things because, you know, and looking back at previous generations, I mean, I come from a farming community  and everybody grew food. You know, you didn't really buy a whole lot in and do you feel we can never  get back to that though? Or are we into an outsourcing culture? And I look remember when Covid had happened  and the supermarket supply chain failed, and everyone thought maybe there's  going to be a food revolution. Did anyone hear that? Or, you know, maybe everything's going to change, it didn't last for long enough, and we  weren't poor enough to really suffer. What was that, making do? We didn't have to make do with eating  holey lettuce and the second-rate food that we might've had in our vege,  not from my garden, your garden. We didn’t have to make do with eating  what we had in our own gardens, we could get back to the  supermarkets within three weeks. If things had been a bit tougher,  maybe a few more 20 something year olds would have gone I'm going to dig up  mum and dad's backyard and start, because they'd lost their jobs,  start a business selling potatoes. I actually, had a whole lot more  volunteers turning up at my house, in through April/May, and they've  got some beds around the periphery, which used to be wild, and now  they're, they're still turning up, I feel like I'm managing their gardens a  lot, but they're, they're growing crops that I'm not growing, in the  edges of my market garden. So, I think that it, it comes from the community, whether it be demand for the  fruit and veggies or if it is from the aspect of a young person or anyone  wanting to do, to be a young grower. Mm. And, so, the pandemic influence, do you think it's evaporated or are we still, you know, do feel that we're  on a journey somewhere? Yeah, I think we're on a journey anyway. And I'm, I know that when you're in a sphere  such as Peter and I are and you are Jane, where you are surrounded by  good stuff, you know, making do, and, and just eating good food that  you've grown yourself or that has… Being resourceful. Being normal thing, being like our granny  was, I'm sorry, what was the question? Oh, just the pandemic influence. That's right. You know, I did have a bump  from it, but I think in general, a lot of people have just gone back  to their old ways very quickly. It would be really nice if we could just  see people knuckling down for a bit longer. Hmm. And where do you think the entry point is? Like what, I mean, personally,  I, during the pandemic, I was doing a lot of walking in  the neighborhood and gathered seeds and I was really grateful for  people who you had verge gardens, because, you know, you could find  some parsley seed and I've grown it and now it's ongoing so, I think, you  know, perhaps that’s the starting point is growing your greens, your herbs, perhaps,  is that something that everybody can do? One parsley plant, parsley  and chives and just enjoy it and put it somewhere where you can reach it. That might be a permaculture  principle there of having things… Just have them at the back steps or have  it on your window sill so you can use it and only, only build a garden that's  as big as what you can manage. If it's, if it's, if it's only this big, go for it and don't spend a fortune on buying some  fancy manufactured, imported garden. A lack of confidence. Do  you think that's part of it? Confidence and time. And we're so  distracted by doing techie things, you know, you know that you're tubing how to  grow a garden instead of growing a garden. Mmm. Because, they kind of almost grow  themselves, some things don't they? But water's a really limiting factor. No. Not in our climate. You don't think? I would like to go back to what Peter said about  how he's got a meditating chair in his garden. I've got a stump. Same thing though,  if you just spend time out there, I don't know how it is, but stuff grows  and it's growing because of your intent. It's growing because you're spending  time there and you're noticing what's going on and you might happen  to throw a packet of seeds out. You may happen to, harvest something, process it, like harvest your basil, turn  it into pesto and wallah!? Sometimes it comes back again, and you get  twice as much just doing, spending time. Thinking about what you're doing,  observing what's going on with insects and all the little things that grow  in the soil and enjoying your garden and just enjoying being there really helps. Peter your insights. I know organic  matter holds a lot of water. So in some ways that's a key for  getting going in your garden. So maybe I should ask you too. How do you think people can get going  and growing more of their own food? I think that they, yeah, they  can start on a small scale, let's say if you've got a yard, then, I would usually, not start in a structure, I would try to, you know, use the grass  and dig it up and not buying soil. But to, to learn from someone  or learn how to transform it because otherwise everything is guess works. And the key to growing food well  is to be able to manage the soil. That's the most important priority  so, if all we ever do is bind soil, you'll never actually learn how to manage soil. So, I think it's better to,  to start by, improving it like we are the garden job that I just  came from this morning in Albany Creek and we built a garden for clients on this  space and which is in their front yard. And all the neighbors are all stuffing  looking at it saying what's going on. And there was this area that had all, you know, fairly messy native and non-native  plants, but it actually had good soil. So we just we cleared it and  then put some timber edging down, use the native soil and grew we've  planted a crop to feed the soil. And I think, I think this is a  really key thing is that when, and even if you buy nursery soil, it's better to assume that  it's not what they say it is. And to start growing a crop into it  that feeds the soil, not yourself. But to be patient, you know and just hold… And what would that be? So say this time of the year, it would be  good, I mean, it depends on the season, but always, usually, always start  with a legume crop, which is.. Name them specifically? So we were planting mung bean this morning. But you could plant cow pea, you know,  there's lots of legumes you can buy. The process is called green manure and  that's where you grow a crop in the soil and you let it grow to a  point and then you cut it down and then it just breaks down into the soil. I mean, I had to give you an example in  our, our patch, which has 200 square metres. And I always put most of the area into  green manure between January and March, because it's a bit hot to  grow a lot of things then. But I leave one bed for vege and  I put that under the shade cloth, but I had all cow pea in there, which is a legume. They all grew to about this size. They take two months to get to that height and then they cut down, laid on the bed. So they become mulch. And within one month they  completely gone into the soil. I don't dig them out at all. I just let the natural process  draw them down into the soil. So it's really, really easy to do it. It costs virtually nothing to do it, and it puts all of these  beautiful, you know, minerals and living nitrogen into the  soil and the plants love it. So, I would, I would always start by trying to understand how you can  improve the soil in a simple way. And do you, you run courses on this Peter? Yeah I do. Yeah, so can you tell us a bit more  about them and their availability? Okay. So the, I run a four  part organic gardening course, which the council sponsor one  series that's full this year. And I also run another one  that isn't council sponsored, and that's also full there's 20 people in each. And that usually runs, twice a year. So I've got two sets of both of  those, and I'll be announcing the, the dates for both of  those later in the year. And then I also run a two-day, biodynamic  food growing workshop three times a year and I have one of those in  November on the 14th and the 15th. So, we've still got a few spaces remaining. So you can, if you interested in that,  you can have a look on our website at myfoodgarden.com.au on the workshops tab. Great. Thank you. And, can I ask you to choose  your favorite crop to grow? Or one that's perhaps the easiest to grow. Oh, look, I mean, my favorite,  I think it is in this climate are peas and it's interesting. Cause peas can be a cool season crop,  but really, they're very easy to grow. They're radically productive if  you put them on a climbing frame. And the growing season is quite  long, like compared to, you know, other, crops of the similar family, like beans. Beans are much more fussy  with the season than peas are so I started planting peas in April  and I planted a batch in my last batch, about six weeks ago and they're  fruiting like crazy now. And I know they're going to finish in  about, you know, a month and a half, and that's why they're flowering  so much, which is good. So, yeah peas. I love every time I go to in the  garden, I eat peas every time. Yeah. Mine are going well too. What about you, Jacki? What's  your favorite thing to grow? Well my favorite thing to grow isn't  in the fancy salad mix, I love ginger. I love the plants, the little flowers. I love that they're perennials  so that they grow just in a corner of the garden  where they can stay forever. I pull them up. I run down to the garden and pull out  a piece of ginger whenever I need it. I never store it in the fridge,  or I never store it in the house. Just run and get it fresh. I just love the scent of fresh ginger. And it's so fat and plump compared to  the ginger that you can buy at the shops. Yeah, it's exciting, isn't it? And ginger is actually grown locally. Like it's a lot of food, isn't it? Hmm. So, what would success  look like for you, Jacki? Where, where do you think we can go with this? Success would be all the front yards in Wharton are ripped up and turned into food garden. It would be fantastic. It happens, you know, it in Canada, there are a lot of front yards  being ripped up and turned, you know the fence is taken down  and people are growing food. I have a fellow who used to volunteer  on a farm that Peter is associated with called Loop Growers, closely associated with, one of their volunteers works for me. So, for two days a week, he  comes in, on my 50th birthday, I gave myself the gift of getting a young guy to come and do all the digging  well, me, that's Brady's job. Brady is now looking for some  land in Brisbane to rip up and turn into a food garden himself. So I'm a little incubator of farmers. It would be wonderful if teenagers  got together and you know, it took out the fences between the houses and, and started farming in the suburbs. And it's easy to do council, pretty easy on you. I'm not so sure about getting out  on your verge on your front road, but you know, you can have a  little, um esky under a tree, have an honesty box, or you just  say inquire at the front door and have just have your neighbors  exchanging food. I love it. And, we haven't talked about the reco ring. Can you tell us a bit more about that, Jacki? Well, this isn't so much about growing food, which you've been speaking about, but  if I can explain how this has start, this phenomenon that has hit, that  we have put into Dayboro and Samford, and now Red Hill, when Covid  had happened, when it happened. My sales dried up by 50%. And we had to, I had to find another way to  get the salad to the people. So I had seen a video in February of a system, an online farmer's market in  Scandinavia where farmers have set up, local farmers, so let's say in this  instance that would be Millen Farm, Loop Growers, Blue Dog Farm, maybe some  honey growers or beekeepers, what else? A few people who may know,  who are bakers of good goods, get together as a Facebook group and  customers comment on their posts. So I say, I've got Blue Dog Farm  salad for sale $12.50 a bag, pick up is on Saturday between 11 and  12, customers then comment to order, they might say one please and then they  transfer money into my bank account. And then on Saturday morning, between 11 and 12, I will be in a car park in Dayboro,  lined up with all the other vendors. We all, we don't have any  signage, we don't have a store, we don't have Zippy, Zippy  credit card, payment thing. Customers just drive past us and we put  the items through their back window, into their esky and they keep  driving and take it all home. It's really, really simple. And it's a fabulous way for  farmers to distribute their product because we're only there for an hour. It's not like going to a farmer's market  where you have to go if it's raining and no one turns up and you've there all  day and you miss out on the good sport. And it's wonderful for customers because  they're just able to order from the couch while they're watching Netflix on Facebook  and then they drive through and pick it up. So that has saved us. We've got one in Dayboro and one in Samford, and we're just starting one  in Red Hill in the city now. And we'll see how that one goes as well. But that's been really nice for, commercial  growers, local commercial growers, and also backyard growers who  might have too many limes or. So that's kind of revolutionizing  the farmer's market contact. Do you feel? Much more accessible than a farmer's market? We actually hope to open one in  North lakes before Christmas. Mm. So you're expanding, on a roll. Look, it's not, it's also, it  doesn't have anything to do with me. I'm just one of the vendors. It's just that I've had a little bit  of practice now at helping set them up. So just, it's just loosely  associated groups of growers. Anyone who wants to be a vendor, having a Facebook group and then  selling their produce through that. So, the one in North lakes will be  started by a fellow who is a paleo Baker, and he's going to find some  eggs, pork, chicken producers. So it's a distribution system. Isn't that? It is, so it's, it is a rebel supply chain. Yeah. Rebels supply getting rid of the middleman. Ah, very good. So, Peter, what  does success look like to you? Similar to what your, what we've  just been talking about is, getting more and more people who are working on their own little patch or whatever size it is, and having, you know, spaces where  it's, I guess, more possible for people if they wanted to go commercial  at whatever level is there, there are technology platforms  existing now that will help with that and there's more evolving no doubt. So the, and I think with  the COVID thing, you know, what I've noticed is a really big increase  in people wanting to grow their own food. A really huge increase in  inquiry for me, which is good, but I mean, I must admit that I would  prefer people to be, to be motivated, not out of fear, but out of, you know,  what is the ideal of what this, you know, seeking with their own health and to  heal the earth, which we all need to do. So, but I know it's not, you  can't all happen at once. And I've always felt that growing food is the most profoundly democratic  thing that you can do. So, you know, every little  step taken is worthwhile. So how however long it takes  is however long it takes. So what's your one piece of advice  for living well in a post COVID world? Awe, grow your own food of course. It's hard to grow it all though. Isn't it? Oh, look, you can never really be  self-sufficient in our society, but that's okay. Is grow as much as you can and use your  garden as a place of healing for yourself, because it's really easy to  become toxic in this world. So do you talk to your plants? Sure. Good on you. We won't ask you what you tell them Now Jacki, what's your one piece of advice  for living well in a postcode world? I don't have any advice. I just, I hope you will enjoy  your gardens today. I don't, it doesn't matter if your garden is just a  two-liter milk bottle with a bit of chives in it, just enjoy it and, and share them  with someone else and, and swap them. And, and a whole conversation has actually  been about growing veggie gardens, but there is a lot more to eat than vegetables. One thing that is really difficult is not knowing  where you can find things other than vegetables. Where can you get ethical,  local meat and eggs, and honey. Okay. What else do we eat? Grains? Yeah, well, yeah, grains are a  big one. Where do you get them? I think that that is something that is  really, really lacking in the whole scene. All you can do I think, is go searching, go  to your local farmer's markets, come to reco, but go to your local farmer's markets and meet  the farmer that is behind the store and ask him, you know, if, what else he grows,  how can he deliver to your home? Can you visit his farm? And this is a tough one, but don't be  deterred by what you might perceive as a big price to pay for the  kilograms that you might get. Because I believe that we  are all eating too much and we are eating too much because the food  that we are eating is not nutritious. I'll give you an, a quick example, pasta. That stuff that comes in the packets that's  in the middle rows of the supermarket   is not very nutritious. You've got to have a huge plate of it because you   feel like you're still  hungry when you're eating it. I bought some pasta that was made by a  cafe and Italian cafe in queen street mall. And they're selling it through  Brisbane bulk buys and discounts, $16 a kilogram, but it's fresh, it's wet pasta. That is some just beautifully made. You only have the tiniest portion, honestly, about as much as what's in there, that of water. You don't want any more because it's a heavy  pasta with your sauce on it. $16 a kilo. I would say that you would be  getting a meal for two, maybe $2. So it's, it's worth it. And  it's the same with meat. I grow grass fed beef, and I make sure  that it's packaged in small portions because you don't need to have a great big rump, which will cost you $30 a kilogram. You don't need it. And that way you are able to  support your local farmers, they have an income, you're eating less,  you'll be getting just as much nutrition as you were eating a huge  amount of factory farmed food. What about crickets? We haven't  met crickets mentioned crickets. Someone needs to go into cricket farming. So what other opportunities  are there? Cricket farming? Yes. Any others, Jackie you’re  a font of wisdom in this? I don't know. Moreton Bay Council  isn't represented here are they? Oh, what about, what about quail farming? You know, you don't have to pluck quails. You just take the whole skin off  and then throw them in the fry pan. It's easy and you can eat their eggs. Fish? Well, you know, you can't Oh, I don't know. I can't just eat vegetables. I need eggs. You can all have eggs. Who's got chooks. Good on you. Do you have to buy eggs as well? Or  do you have enough? That's awesome. Duck eggs are a thing. Does anyone here,  would anyone here like to eat duck eggs? Great. Do you know this lady? She has duck eggs. So you're building community  aren’t you Jacki, as you go. That's very exciting. Well we  do have, local food, to share. So, any concluding remarks  you'd like to make Peter before we close and spend half  an hour building community? No other, thanks for the opportunity to do this. Well, thank you for bringing  your, you know, your insights. And I think that healing aspect is going to  be very significant into the future as well. The healing through the food that we eat. Just one thing for you to finish on Jacki is talking about how you're regenerating  your land and measuring that. Can you finish on that? You know, we have financial accounts  and we know what everything costs. One thing to think about is the  environmental cost of everything we do, so, we are using something called  environmental accounting on our farm. We are measuring our water  quality, carbon, soil health, and our commercial health, our social health. And then there is a formula that  can be used to give us a number of, they're not carbon credits, but  the accounting for nature credits. And that is that value is going to  be measured, it was measured in May and it's going to be measured next May. And the increase in that number is well, the difference is going to be traded on an  accounting for nature exchange in Chicago because European corporations have to  invest into, environmental, improvements. It doesn't have to happen in  Australia, but I will say that the Queensland government has given  us a rebate to be able to do this. So they are very supportive. That means that we will be monetizing the  improvements that we make on our land. So, I'm making sure that our waterway is  clean and as healthy as possible by having, natural ecosystems all around it. We only  use, non-synthetic fertilizer in the garden, so I would never want anything to wash down into  the waterways, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And all of that is going to be measured  and monetized, which is very cool. And we're hoping that in the future, community  groups will be able to do the same things. So, possibly you would have a, a  local area, not as big as Morton Bay, but just say the Petrie accounting for nature  group people, individuals would band together and you would manage at, sorry, you would  account for the improvements in your gardens and to be able to sell that collectively on  the accounting for nature exchange in Chicago. Isn’t that cool? That's, that's amazing. I mean, I think in a way what sits  behind that is striving to, to balance the, the ecology economy and community,  because, you know, we really, that's what we're really need  to do in urban agriculture. And there is actually, there is one  more thing I want to say is there, there are some really large  urban agriculture initiatives   evolving through Morton Bay Regional Council, which will be made public reasonably  soon so, we have some connection to that, but it's still, I can't really  say much at this point in time,   but there's, they're very supportive. They're all up. The, the council,  the Morton Bay Regional Council is very supportive of urban  agriculture initiatives. So that's, that's great. So, I think we're in the right  place to be able to do that. Yeah. That's exciting. And you know, clearly we've got a lot  of work to do to change the system. When you look at what's happening, you  know, fires, floods, all of that disaster, you know, we, we need to change  the way that we're living and perhaps starting with local urban,  agriculture is a big step forward. Sure. Yep. And just to finish off, I'd like to say,  well, look, we've talked all about food, which is actually 20% of our  carbon footprint is what we eat. But the other thing, our skin is our  largest organ and our clothing and fiber like local fiber to me is the  it's the next big horizon. I'll make that point, I'm wearing wool. Cotton. And this is silk, none of which, even  though I've died at all with local plants, it can't be really, the wool definitely  from Merino country can be sourced locally and I know there's one line of  cotton called full circle fibers, which is fully Australian cotton, but basically  we've got globalized fiber and clothing. And, and so that's the next frontier  that we can talk about another day, so.. We need a sheep and some silkworms. Yes. So thank you very much, Jacki and Peter,  and thank you to Morton Bay Regional Council, particularly the pond rivers, heritage  museum for making this possible. And I think we have Rachel  now to conclude and wrap up. Thank you everyone for joining us today for  our conversations on a conscious consumerism and a big thanks to our host, Jane Milburn and our  guest speakers, Peter Kierney and Jacki Hinchey. We are very grateful to have you here  today, sharing your knowledge with us and really inspiring change in  the way that we source our food, sustainability, urban farming,  it was really interesting. And I know I'll definitely go  home and look at my little garden and see how I can change it. As the museum continues to navigate  its way through this difficult time, we're really hoping to continue to provide  small events like this for the community. So, if you'd enjoyed today,  please share with your friends, keep an eye on our social media and a website. We've also got a new Instagram  account just for galleries and museums and coming up to Christmas,  we'll have a lot of events. So yeah, definitely keep an eye on those. On that note, we'll have Melissa,  serving some refreshments. Our food today has been locally  sourced from Grey's at Samford, Jane and our guests will be  here for a while so please, do you want us to continue  the conversation? Thank you. 