 In our daily work with our customers, we often see new customers who are really eager to start their EA program quickly and most of the time they are actually focusing on the use case of Application Portfolio Management. What you need for Application Portfolio Management or what at least makes your life a lot easier is a good Business Capability Model because you actually want to know what your Applications are doing It actually sounds quite easy, but on the other hand this is often the point, where customers start losing their momentum because they're getting lost in methodology driven conversations and conversations about the right details From my perspective, this is absolutely not possible and not necessary. It is more about getting a proper model, which is right to a certain degree than figuring out every small detail. Business Capabilities are pretty much the functions a company needs to execute its business model. They are pretty much just answering the question “what a company is doing?”. This is independent from certain processes or certain parts of the organizational structure. Think of a car manufacturer – a car manufacturer needs to be able to produce cars a Parcel Service probably has really excellent logistics or think of a software company like LeanIX. We need the capability to actually gather feedback from our customers and then translate it into the product via very good product development. These might be just capabilities on a high level, others might be HR Management or Finance or for example as as I said Logistics. For a proper Application Portfolio Management you probably want to break those down a little bit. You do not want to just talk about Logistics but break it down into procurement and sourcing and warehouse management. Warehouse management you again want to break down into packaging, dispositioning or goods and receipt management. It is really easy to get to a certain level of detail which actually gives you a really good starting point to plan your Application landscape. You do not need to get into too much detail and you also do not need to put too much science into it to actually start working and generating value with a Business Capability Map. Business Capability Mapping is great to scope and prioritize the work with your Application Portfolio. It is pretty easy to relate goals or strategic initiatives to capabilities and there you already get a feeling where it is you need to allocate resources to or put your budget to. On the other hand, it gives you a great clustering of your applications and shows which functionality is currently supported by what kind of Applications. You would actually get a great insight also in the quality the function is currently supported, if there is a need – also button up – to put in new technologies to support your functions even better and being able to execute new business models. Starting to create your Business Capability Map is rather easy. One important point is to always have in mind that you want to answer the question “what is my company doing?”. To start off, you can actually actually take a lot of resources, like the LeanIX poster for example, to start off off, but there are also a lot of process models, probably being in your company, that give you great insights. Of course, if you are using reference models, you of course have to take care that the functionality – also on a high level – actually represents what your company is is doing. As a telecommunications provider, let´s say you probably do not want to place the top-level capability production, but have a prominent view on a billing capability that you further break down. Relying on best practices is a good approach, nevertheless, as you break down your capability to a second or probably third level, which is necessary, you might get to a point where you get stuck and really do not know what the specifics of your business are and what the specifics of your business models are. This is pretty much the time where you will get in touch with your colleagues and ask the experts in those domains what they are actually doing in their daily work and we would always suggest to reach out bringing a certain idea or 80% of your current Capability Map as a point for discussion. We would also recommend setting up some easy interview questions upfront that actually enable your interview partner to give a little bit more insights about the daily tasks or workflows they actually need to work through. There it is just your task to be curious, ask questions and finally note down and sort that feedback that you are getting to see like “Hey what are my colleagues doing in their day-to-day business” and you are pretty much able to get some good results quickly if you focus on these hands-on interviews. Do not make a science out of it! I would really recommend taking it easy. Do not over complicate things. In most cases, we see that two levels or let´s say three levels for capabilities are really enough to start proper Application Portfolio Management. If you go more into detail, you will end up in more discussion and will not also make the progress and create that value that you actually want to create because you get stuck in these conversations. This is why I would really recommend to – as you talk with people about it – create a pitch where you do not talk about methodology, but where you simply tell your stakeholders, that you need the Capability Model to allocate IT budgets correctly, to do a reassessment of your application Portfolio or to simply see if functionalities are well supported by IT or need some optimization. Your stakeholders will not be interested in the method behind it, but they will be very happy if you can free up some budget or if you can provide better technology that makes their life easier in the long run or in their daily business. My number one tip is: not over-complicate things and actually keep it simple! Concentrate on creating business values instead of having complicated methodology. If you are interested to learn more, please request a demo at www.leanix.net/en/ and talk to our sales managers If you need some hands-on support, feel free to ask them for professional services we are happy to help you out with building your business capability map. 