  Hi, I'm Whitney Espich, the CEO of the MIT Alumni Association and I hope you enjoy this digital production created for alumni and friends like you. Joe: And we will say hello, and good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you for joining today's program. It is our MIT Career Lunch & Learn: Resume Workshop with Recruiters. I am Joe from your MIT alumni office in Cambridge, working from my home office in Cambridge, today. If you are like me, maybe you have wrestled your laptop back from your children, your dogs, your in-laws to join us here. I am really glad we have four panelists here today. I will ask them to introduce themselves in a moment. First, some housekeeping, briefly. We are recording this webinar and we will make an archived version of it available to the alumni Association --Alumni Association on YouTube. We are sponsored by MIT and Sloan and we are here to talk about best practices crafting resumes whether you are right out of MIT or experienced, 10, 20, 30 years out and looking for that next big opportunity. A reminder that after our chat today, our panelists will look at some of the resumes submitted. We will invite each company to host a brief break out to talk about hiring needs and current opportunities. We sent links to these this afternoon in an email confirmation. As a reminder, you also got it with the original registration. I will also post those into the chat. You will be able to see those in the breakout rooms. Throughout the hours, -- our, you can submit your resume using the Q&A feature. If you don't immediately see it, you can find it at the bottom of the toolbar. Drag your mouse around. At this point, let's jump in and ask our panelists to introduce themselves, talk a little bit about what the company does, what the current opportunities are, and anything else about their own personal bios they wish to share. Let's go in alphabetical order of company. Rob, I believe it is you with Knotch. Robert: thank you so much. Thank you for joining the webinar today. I hope you get something out of this. I know we will as panelists as well. My name is Rob. I am the talent acquisition lead at Knotch, which is a content intelligence platform. That means we help enterprise brands understand how content performs. Ultimately, it is a software company. You may have heard the term SAS S. I'm here in the epicenter of the pandemic in New York right now. Knotch did something very interesting during this time, which was to put everybody remote as early as possible. What it taught us was we were going to be able to be flexible in case we needed to be fully remote. It turns out a week after we did that, the order was said to start avoiding large gatherings and after about another week, it was mandated. So, I'm glad we did it early. We do a lot at Knotch to keep people engaged, but ultimately, our software is still important. We work and come indications, and communications today, if you open the news -- we work in communications, and today, if you open the news, it's all coronavirus. We are analyzing software for free for COVID-19. That is how we are helping out to stay resilient at this time but also to give back. We do this well. In additional to charitable giving and staying in touch with the community and our employees, we are doing that for clients and prospects as well. Some open roles we have we can discuss a little bit down the line. I would be interesting to hear from other panelists how they are handling hiring at this time as well. Joe: Thank you, to you, Sammy at Lev Capital. Sammy: hello. We are a venture backed commercial brokerage. That's a fancy way of saying, if a hotel needs financing or if someone is trying to crate a multi family property, we provide financing options. I can go into that in more detail. We are -- [INDISCERNIBLE] We are still actively hiring, although less so than before this COVID outbreak happened. We are looking for engineers with two plus years of experience to help us build out our front end and our back end. And we are looking for people who are passionate about real estate and have a knack for building great tools. I hope that was helpful. Joe: Sammy, on behalf of us, I will just chime in, your audio is a little choppy. I know you are in exile in your office, but if you can wave your phone around. We would love hearing from you. And Mok from Mercari. Mok: hello, everybody. We started some companies. One of them got acquired from PayPal. We moved to San Francisco. Went to Sam's onion Korea -- Samsung in Correia. -- Korea. We are e-commerce. Consumer to consumer. If you have anything you want to sell, take a picture of it and share it with people. We are founded in Japan and are listed in Japan on our IPO. We are now continuing to grow. I am certainly looking forward to meeting many of you. Joe: Thank you, and Mike from Nasuni. Michael: good afternoon, everyone, thank you for having me. My name is Michael back. I am a talent act with -- Michael Beck. I am a talent acquisition manager at Nasuni, a file storage company founded about 10 years ago. We provide enterprise global clients the ability to migrate their data from an on premise storage solution to a cloud storage solution. We provide essentially unstructured data files and global locking that allows amazing collaboration. Before this, we were talking about the patents we have that allow collaboration. In the last two weeks, we have been talking about what we have allowed clients to do from a business continuity perspective. We just had an all hands call today. It was really exciting because we also have to turn on a dime and everyone went remote. But we have everything in place to do that. We have been able to prioritize our reqs and job openings. We adjusted slightly but we still have job openings. We are on boarding now. We have switched to Zoom to do that. I am looking forward to talking more in helping all of you -- and helping all of you with resumes, any suggestions I can find. I think this is going to create a lot of opportunities for people. I would say just keep looking forward beyond this virus. People are here to help. Joe: Thank you, panelists. I promise this will be the last question I will ask everybody to weigh in on. Feel free when we get to the resumes to chime in as the spirit moves you, but can we start with just giving -- what is the first thing you look at when you look at a resume or a LinkedIn profile, maybe the first few things you look at, that are unique to you as a reader, and you are allowed one pet peeve if you can think of one. What is the biggest sticking point for you that makes you set it aside or shelve it and say I am not going to connect with this person? Maybe two or three favorite things you look at and let's just go in alphabetical order one more time. Rob. Robert: I am more than happy to describe. The first thing I look at usually comes toward the top of the page. Whether it is a LinkedIn page or a resume. For me and my hiring manager's most importantly, what have you been doing recently? We look at your most recent position and if you are not at that position anymore, maybe there is an explanation around it. We all have unique stories. I got laid off at one point. I had to rebuild my story. We all have our own paths and I think the resume needs to speak to that, especially recently. When you are applying for a job, a lot of recruiters will look at relevant experience. Have you done what we are looking for? Then it's just a stamp. It doesn't have to be that way meaning, maybe in the summary, what you are looking for and what your experience in the past draws upon now to pursue this type of role, that's what would stand out to me. The first thing my eyes go to is what have they been doing most recently? Joe: Sammy? You are muted. Sammy: now? Joe: I can hear you. Sammy: I'm sorry. I just came back on. What was the question? Joe: The first things you look at in a resume. And pet peeves. Sammy: I agree about relevant experience. That's really, really important. Also, just looking at places someone else has worked. If that's similar. For example, we are in the real estate field. If someone comes from something moderate related, even in tech, that is something that would stand out. And if they don't have that direct experience, just being able to talk about stuff related to a product they have built or something like that on the engineering side. That could translate well. People of mine -- a pet peeve of mine is when people are not clarifying dates so well. I do see that sometimes, especially when they graduated and don't have any experience [INDISCERNIBLE] Joe: Thank, Sammy, you are still breaking up a little bit. I hope you can work it out. Mok: I don't think I mentioned this. I am the CTO of Mercari. I look at resumes from a software perspective. The first thing I look for his clarity of thought. The resume is a representation of that. So, one of my pet peeves is if it is too crowded and there is too much. I feel it is hard to read and understand who you are. Being really concise. Get your foot in the door. That's what you want to do to go to the next level of the interview. Get to the point. Keep it clean and neat. The opposite piece is, if it's too crowded and it's not clear what the messages -- message is, it is hard for me to pick that person up. Concise, clean, foot in the door. Joe: Thank you. Michael: the first thing I think about is, did this person customize their resume for Nasuni and for this job, or is it generic? You might have skills in the financial services industry and the Pharma industry, and if you are applying to a financial services firm, you should really tell her -- Taylor that resume to that side of your strengths. I also like to think in terms of threes. First, what did this person do? What are they doing now? What do they want to do? You can think of that yourself. What did I do in the past? What am I doing now? Where do I want to be? If you can understand that, if that comes across crisply and clearly, it becomes easy for us. Bullseye resumes are such easy hires, but the majority of resumes and the best hires I have made are transitioning in some way. Into our space. I think you have to think about the recruiter or the hiring manager to say most of the time you are not going to be a bullseye fit. So, how do you make your resume attractive for that? One of the things I have found is in terms of taxonomy or a cloud. At the top, you have domain, kingdom, filing class, all the way down to species. Does your resume speak to the lowest level of the species and you are talking about tactical things, or are you speaking to high level, Kingdom or class level? For us at Nasuni, the top level would be SASS, then cloud, then storage, then file systems, the network attached storage, then unstructured data, and so on. So if I see a resume that's like I do performance for unstructured file data systems, that's a bullseye. But if I wasn't that type of company, that person would probably get thrown out. They should start higher up in the class or kingdom and say hey, look, I'm an expert in software engineering using a variety of different things. So, I will pause there, Joe. I am happy to answer more questions. Joe: I like the life sciences connection. Let's jump right in. I hope everyone can see this. A whole bunch of resumes here. We will apologize for butchering resumes with redaction's, but my legal team tells me that's the best way to go. We have phone numbers, email addresses, etc. off of here. Panelists, if you can see this first resume -- I intentionally started with some more experienced alums. It's a writing challenge, it's an organizational challenge, it's all of the above when you have a career's worth of information to convey in one document. So this particular alum, I also wanted to meet this person because this is a Top Gun instructor for the U.S. Navy. That's pretty cool. There is professional experience first right after identifying information. A nice heading of job titles. Going in chronological order as his custom. Education, a few nice credentials there. What is missing from this resume, panelists? Feel free to jump in at your leisure or, what is this person doing really right? Michael: first of all, this is guy's resume and I just want to say thank you for your service. My dad went to Annapolis as well. You have a great career there. You have all these specialties in defense, communications. What I want to know is what do you want to do? I would love to see that at the top, what your goal is. Clearly, you would transfer to a lot of different leadership roles anywhere. Joe: Anything else?  I saw this and was like, I want to meet this person, too. It is a crisp and clear resume. I would bring this person in if you were applying for a software engineering position. Just echoing that it looks like a template you might -- template. You might want to make it more unique depending on the position you are looking for. One thing, as I see resumes, it is really an advertisement for yourself. So the more personalized it might be for the demand-side, I think there might be a high rate of engagement. I am sure that peace might be there for specific needs. It's really crisp and very clear. Rob: I would like to add, I totally agree about the cohesion of the story and trying to come across crisply. It's really interesting to hear what other panelists here are used to review resumes. I hope everybody gets to take a bit of this away as well. Christmas is important. When you have so much amazing experience as you see here, which can be very impressive, I worry as a recruiter about over qualification of candidates that time. -- at times. That can come in a variety of ways when you find it. One example would be well, maybe they have to much experience and might be too expensive. Should we go after them? Can we budget at this level? The second thing is what is the direction? They might be overqualified because there are so many skill sets. What are they using those skill sets to drive toward? Hopefully, you customize your resume to that. One easy way to do that -- because you will probably apply to multiple positions -- an easy way would be to add something at the top, a summary. The reason you are applying and state your intention, what you are heading toward. I will be honest, I am not going to read every word on every person's resume they submit. Often, we do a keyword search. One thing I love about this resume is there are some keywords here as well as metrics. All of these quantitative metrics and keywords that can be found easily would help me bring a resume to the top faster. There also needs to be that cohesion. Joe: Thank you. We are working at getting Sammy back online. Let's look at a second one. I will call this number two. Summary of qualifications at the top. This is the typical sentence fragment -- sentence we see in a summary. A list of skills at the top. This person is thinking, perhaps, as we have to be in mind of, any applicant tracking systems using keyword searches, scanning, or automatically disqualifying candidates who don't have those words, which I would love to hear your two cents on. Interprofessional experience. Again, another very experienced candidate. Ending with education and awards bunched together in one category. Quick takes for many of you -- from any of you. Mike: I thought this was a great resume with the bullet points. I would bring up that mechanical engineering at the bottom of the resume and promote that a little more at the top. I think there is some stuff you could clean up a little bit, some of the adjectives. We don't really look at a lot of the adjectives like hard-hitting business development or leading-edge technology. Business development and technology are fine for me. That can reduce it if you look through things like that. Down at the bottom, this person needs to decide what they really want to convey. They have instructor information down there. I think they need to decide, if you are going for instructor, mentor, coach, leading role, highlight that more, but I think you could have that as a one-liner, actually, and focus on other things.  I like this a lot. Typically, I look for a chronology of the person's story. I think it was a little bit tougher here, mainly because it went from the present backward. And then some things were still 2007-present or 2018-present in the 1996 and 1998. It was harder for me to ditch together -- stitched together your career path and understand which direction you might want to go and where you might want to be. Other than that, layout-wise, it's good. And the mechanical engineering piece is lightning. It might be worthy of being promoted. Joe: Have you seen any elegant ways in skipping years of service? Here are a few different professions on the resume. Are there elegant ways to just summarize that and say other experience I can give you if you want? Robert: to that point, what I have seen and resumes of candidates with a lot of experience where they say I don't want to spend five pages on a CV, they will take the latter four pages and condense them into kind of a block paragraph or bullet points. And that at the bottom of the resume would say worked at these companies and one descriptor, word, phrase, or something really short. That really works for the past. As far as in between years, I think it might be a little jarring if you were to condense like five years of experience between the present and 10 years ago. I don't actually know because I've never come across that interstitial type of thing, but from before, that's I've seen it. Has anyone else seen interstitial condensing? Joe: Everybody is on mute. There are ways to do it in the cover letter. What kind of cover letter would you envision for this person that would complement this resume nicely? Rob Mike: The cover letter, for me, when you write the cover letter, think about what the hiring manager once and tailor the cover letter to that goal rather than your own goal. I think that would help format the cover letter you want. Put yourself in the shoes of the hiring manager. The other thing is, if you want to tout your accomplishments, think about the group of threes. What was it like before I got there? What did I do, and what was the outcome or benefit to the company? If you do that at the top of the resume, in the cover letter, or even within jobs, that type of model, when I arrived it was like this, this is what I ended up doing, this is how it benefited the company, that's going to resonate with us really, really well. Mok: for me, I honestly don't look at cover letters. I prefer to hear the story from the resume perspective and LinkedIn. Those are the two places I look. But it really depends on the stage of the interview and where you are. We do have in-house recruiters and help that we get, and I think from that perspective, it might be more important to have a good cover letter. For me, maybe I am too impatient , I go straight to trying to stitch together the story in the career path of the person. Is it going to be a good fit for us to have a wonderful, mutual relationship? Robert: just to expand on that, I completely agree with the cover letter. I often don't look. And people often don't submit it for a certain type of role, like engineering. If they do, sometimes I will take a look. I did not mention my pet peeve at the beginning, but one of my pet peeves is cover letters that are generic and resumes that are generic. Take another minute to look at -- because I took another minute to look at another attachment and there was nothing I learned from it. It's unfortunate, because the cover letter, if the recruiter does look at it, is the chance to say something substantial. It should also say something more personal as opposed to professional. The cover letters that have stood out to me are really good writers Knotch Knotch. That's what we look for at -- that's what we look for at Knotch as well. Why people are pursuing this opportunity and feel it might be right for them. The cover letter is not the only place to do that. It is a place. I often get messages on LinkedIn from people which I will review. The generic ones do not go far, but if somebody says hey, I saw this role and I think it's a good fit because I saw this in the news, that piques my interest. Again, it's about being creative. Joe: thank you. I am aware of the time. I would like to look at few more experienced hires. I have some rapidfire round resumes, if I can run through a few of those. Let's look at some LinkedIn profiles. We will get to those in the last couple of minutes, too. Gentlemen, one quick take on maybe 5-10 of these one pagers. The panelists have seen all of these ahead of time. Resume number one is a class of 2016 graduate, has some professional experience already, obviously, through the MIT years and undergrad years. The undergrad was at Texas A&M. How about for this person? Something you love, something you would change right away. Robert: I love the competencies aspect. For me, it is the key words. Especially when I am hiring for software engineers for specific roles to know if they can code in a certain language. So, I would love to see Java, C++, even though that's not what we use at Knotch. That's something I can find with a keyword. The awards are really cool. Again, I think that colors the story that this person is an achiever. Can you scroll to the top? Something else I was going to mention. Right. Education being at the top. Unless there is an exact reason you feel education should be at the top of your story, I would put it toward the bottom. What we really look for is what you are working on now. Joe: this is Lord of the flies, but you have to speak first if you want to speak. I am jumping to resume number two. A list of competencies, qualifications on the left. A three paragraph summary. That red dot is mine. MoRobNa Mike: This resume confused me when I first saw it. What is the crocks -- crux that this person wants to pull out. Present that is the main point. Robert: Joe, I think you are muted. Joe: rapidfire number three. Education first. PhD degree next year and a Masters degree a couple years ago. Mok: I can say something. I did my PhD, so. One thing I question here is, your graduation date says June, 22 anyone -- June 2021. I would joke with my wife and I was doing my PhD, she would say how many years, and I would always say two. So I would question  the 2021. But I am assuming this person is looking for an academic position. Having a lot of publications at the bottom is very impressive. It's not too long. It makes me want to read the highlights of the bullet points and it's very concise, very good. Well done. I don't mind the education being on top because you are still in school. It's a good resume. Joe: rapidfire number four. A master of financial math, class of 2017. This is a one pager. And additional information at the bottom. Quick takes. Mike: This resume is going to be in high demand right now because of all the analytics and data analysis going on. Put that at the top of your resume, combine the financial and bio work you have done, and then expand that to the verticals. You have transferable skills too many different industries. Joe: this is a resume of a person named Omar because I am sorry, I did not reject that. Summary at -- we tacked -- redac t that. Summary at the top, education, skills, experience. Something you love, something you would change right away. And it ends with a sizable list of journal publications. Any of the panelists want an interview right away? I am going to prompt Mike. Mike: Joe, move up a little bit, a little further, first job. Experience. This, I think, is an opportunity . Operations researcher. I think this could be bulked up a little. Think about title versus what you are actually doing and use that to create your brand. What is your brand? What do you want to be recognized for? Operations researcher can carry so many different things, so. Joe: let's squeeze a couple more in. Rapidfire number six. Right into work experience. ICF associate. Number of bullets there. A few other jobs. Other significant professional experiences. Robert: I just want to say I like the amount of bullet points here. It really does have that conciseness, even though there is quite a bit of explanation. I can look at this in my eyes are not getting tired, which is great. It's pretty on the nose as far as what you are referring to. Even just the first bullet point, what research you conducted. If I were looking for somebody to work in that industry, I would know you have that experience already and that it's very specific, and that would be very helpful to me. Joe: let me ask the panelists a popular question. Is resume summary a fad that will go away eventually? Mok: I don't think so. For me, I think that's an area where you can tailor what you want from a specific position you are applying for. The point, again, as I mentioned, foot in the door, stand out. In order to do that, being able to sis sinks Lee communicate why this is -- the saintly -- succi nctly communicate why this is the position you're seeking. I get this person. Interesting. What's next? For me, I think it is very helpful. It's the Econo-letter. Mike: I wanted to add, on that resume, if the person is applying for a climate and energy analyst role, this resume works perfectly. It's ideal. It's a bull's-eye. But if they are applying for anything else, they need to have that summary. Joe: time for one more. This alum does start with a summary. A nice flourish of bubbles at the top. Right into education. Skills. Experience. Mike: I just cautioned a lot of resumes go into applicant tracking systems. They are sometimes good at reading colors, but this resume, I was concerned some of the words might not get picked up. Also, this person is adding a lot of buzzwords on some common skill sets, Microsoft Word, Excel, Google. That real estate could be used to promote something else. Joe: that's all the time we have, I am afraid, for our panelists. Apologies from Sammy. Technical difficulties. He said he's going to try to join the breakout shortly. We thank our panelists from Knotch , #MITAlum, Mercari, and Nasuni. In just a moment, you will be able to ask questions about any of their companies. The chat will close shortly. Today's presentation, again, will be on the MIT Alumni Association YouTube channel. If you want more, go online and you can sign up for future webcast is and get advice from your peers. You can learn about other regional hiring events coming up. Any questions about today's webinar, you can email alumnicareers@mit.edu. Thanks again to our panelists and now, let's open up the breakout space. Thank you. Thanks for joining us and for more information on how to connect with the MIT Alumni Association please visit our website. 