 Good afternoon and welcome to the AICPA Town Hall Series. We're bringing this special edition to you this week because there's so much going on with the stimulus bill activity. We've got a great program lined up for you. A lot of information that we think that we've packaged that you'll be able to leverage to drive some of your firm strategies or to review with your clients, or if you're in business and industry, to help your company. We're going to kick things off and we're going to dig in a little bit and talk about the current status of the stimulus bill activities, this big gang of eight proposal, discuss timing around it, and then we're actually going to share with you how we see it all shaping out and give you some of our directional estimates of what we think PPP-2 will look like. We then have our special topic this week, it is going to be around year end accounting treatment. We've got Dan Noll with us who's been with us before. I think you're going to enjoy that section. Then we're going to end with an open forum and closing remarks. Just a couple of housekeeping items. If you click on over 75 percent of these pop-ups throughout today's session, you can earn CPE credit. Please do leverage this toolbar at the bottom where you can download materials and ask questions. We've got a number of familiar faces here. You see them right now on the video stream. Erick Asgeirsson, one of the AICPA executives and lead the business and technology subsidiary, AIC CPA.com. With us is Dan Noll, who's the director of accounting services. You all know Mark Peterson, who leads the advocacy area of the AICPA, and Lisa Simpson who leads firm services. Welcome. What we do every week, is we bring the latest information to you. We've worked really hard this week because there's a lot of uncertainty out there. What we've tried to do based on discussions with ad with Treasury and SBA and policymakers over the last 24 hours, is bring to you how we think things are shaping out, in particular around PPP-2. What's everybody is talking about in the media right now, if I'm at least getting an article I think every hour on where the stimulus discussions are going, some of them are positive, some of them are negative. Mark Peterson is going to help unpack that for us in a minute. Here's one that's positive, highlighting that there is movement, which is excellent. The reason why it's excellent, is because we continue to see economic reports that if we don't do something, millions of jobs are going to be lost. I'm not sure if all of you are familiar with the quarterly AICPA economic outlook survey that is put out. You can download the survey. It's an eight-page survey report, by clicking on this link in the PowerPoint. Basically, it states what we're all well aware of. That a large group of business executives predict a negative impact if we do not pass another round of business stimulus by the end of this year. Mark, I want to bring you in. This is your slide. You said a few weeks back, the fog was lifting last week with barrow, we said the sun could be rising, but it looks like we've got some uncertainty, maybe a few strong clouds out there. Here I have a little weatherman handing it off to you. What we'd like here is close for the holidays after they pass a spending bill and get the stimulus package. I think the fundamentals are that everybody wants to get something done. But how that gets done is incredibly complicated. There's two things at play here. One is a spending bill. The House Representative passed a major spending bill to keep the government running. The senate's going to pass it probably before Sunday, short-term extension on that spending bill to the 18th of December. That is a good thing because that could be a vehicle and it probably is the most likely vehicle that a stimulus package, either large or small, would be attached to. Within that stimulus package, PPP-2, unemployment insurance, many other things that have been negotiated. But the major sticking point, have been the same since we've been talking about trying to get this next major package out. It's the size of the package, the amount of money, a couple of trillion, one trillion, half-a-trillion. We've got some proposals that are out right now. Then how much, if any for state and local and liability reform. Those continue to be the corners of the deal. There is a lot of bipartisan agreement on the elements of the stimulus package like PPP-2 that we care about. Next slide. Mark, this slide just came out. I mean, one thing you're saying there is that's the thing. That everyone thinks like it seems like this bill should just be passed, but it's the corners of the bill as you were saying, there's a wide agreement on PPP-2. Just to let everybody know, please do use your resource materials download button because you've got a six page outline of this gang of eight proposal. We're back to you Mark, it should be live on your slide. No, thank you. What we're looking at now and I think this is really helpful, there's still uncertainty about when the deal happens. We think it's going to happen. Whether it's broad or narrow and how it comes across the finish line, whether it's attached to a spending bill or not. But what just came out this week, is an outline from what's being called the gang of eight proposal, that's four Republican senators and four Democratic senators. $9.8 billion, the White House also came out with a proposal. A lot of interest in the administration trying to get something done here on stimulus before the new administration takes over in January, they need to get that done. They're trying to be very engaged in the negotiations. This gang of eight proposal, which we're going to take you through, is a really good indicator of the direction of where they're going to go on things like PPP deductibility, some of the other issues that we're going to talk you through. Where there are gaps in there, we've also seen other proposals. If you take all of the proposals that are out there and you pull it together, it does give us some direction of the likelihood of how things are going to turn out when they actually get to a deal. We can start to see some legislative texts. The dynamics around how this happens too are complicated. As interested as they are in getting stimulus done, the administration wants to get it done before the next administration takes over. We've got the politics, says there's a special elections that are taking place in Georgia, which could mean a difference of who's got the majority in the Senate. Then you also have both congressional Republicans and Democrats trying to figure out from their perspective, is a deal better from their perspective now or potentially, is it going to be better for them after the new administration, the new Congress takes over? We still think that the pressure is on getting something done. Everybody knows the reports we're seeing spikes in COVID cases, mortality, a lot of main street calling for stimulus. That's putting a lot of back pressure on the political wrangling. But I will tell you that there's a lot of discussion that's going on in the press, there's a lot going on behind closed doors. We've even had the potential for another extension of the funding bill from the 18th to the 23rd, if you could believe it, which would indicate more time for negotiation, but it also pushes us right into the holiday season. It's going to be playing out, but I really do think that what we're going to lay out today is a very likely direction on some of the specifics that we're going to see related to PPP-2 on the stimulus package. Mark on that, one thing for some reason, we've got a lot of resource materials. I apologize that they're highlighted two or three times about the six page outline. For some reason we did not upload that to the resource section. We will get that out to all of the attendees. We will get that out when we do a follow-up e-mail. But what you're going to get now, is probably an even better outcome, is a review by Lisa Simpson related to the PPP-2 programs. This is actually what you're going to get over these next couple of slides, is greater detail than what has been released in that six page outlines. Definitely, Lisa welcome. Thank you Erick. Apologies that you guys don't have the framework to refer to you, but as Eric said, we've built out and questioned some of the details. It's our understanding that there's going to be two different sets of borrowers in the next round of PPP. You'll have those borrowers who got their first draw of a PPP loan, but need to come back for more because they'd been one of the hardest hit groups. We expect that the parameters are going to be something like 300 or fewer employees. In PPP1, it was 500 or fewer, and now we're thinking 300. But there's also going to be a revenue decline test to qualify for that second round of PPP. The numbers were hearing right now are 30 percent. I've seen 25, I've seen 35, but we're hearing 30 right now. Right now, again, hearing that it's based on comparing any quarter in twenty twenty to the same period in the prior year. It sounds like there's some flexibility there and again, details to be coming on how is that revenue decline calculated. Is it cash? Is it accrual? So lots of details, but that's the gist of it. There's also going to be additional funding for first-time borrowers and we expect that borrowers that were eligible in PPP1, we'll have the same type of borrowers eligible in PPP2, subject to that change in the number of employees. But we also expect that 501c6es will be included. That's chambers of commerce, state societies, economic development, tourism, industry, lobby groups. There are some restrictions around how much the c6es are spending on lobbying. Details to be forthcoming on those types of parameters. We also expect other types of criterion reductions for those first time borrowers. Revenue reductions, economic necessity of the loans, questions that we've been dealing with for the past few months will come into play, but we have not seen any concrete details on that. This is pretty significant. This is actually, in some ways, more information that it's even in that outline. Right now, there's questions on what could you discuss with your clients? Well, if you have clients that have had a 30 percent revenue loss in one quarter in 2020, they're going to be eligible for a second round of PPP most likely. We do think this is directionally correct. Then this is going to be very significant that 51c6es with 150 or fewer employees are eligible. So a huge new category for this next round of business relief. Mark, you were going to say something? Just on the lobbying threshold. Previous iterations of this language, we were not fond of, to be honest. The threshold was like 10 percent of revenue spent one lobbying and we felt that that was too low and it would disqualify too many 501c6es, so we are engaged and working on that language to try and perfect it or at least make it more accommodating to the non-profits. Lisa, next slide, you'll all see you're going to have this purple circle, because this is what we currently think the final bill could look like, but it is in negotiation, so things can change. Yeah. Right now, we're hearing that the maximum loan amount is going to be two million, and similar to PPP1, it's going to be based on payroll costs. Two-and-a-half months of average soil monthly payroll costs. What I've read indicates that it's 2019 payroll costs. There are some caveats in there for seasonal and new employers, but again, that gives you the rough idea that you can start working with. Eligible costs for forgiveness, same as PPP1. Payroll, covered mortgage interest, rent utilities, but some new categories of expenses that I think could be potential significant expenditures for some of your borrowers. PPE costs to modify operations to comply with operating restrictions around COVID-19. Additionally, there is a line that is for supplier cost that are central to current operations. Don't have any details on that yet, but I know that that was a significant factor for a lot of our PPP1 borrowers. We expect that there will be a 60-40 cost allocation between payroll and non-payroll costs, just like there is in PPP1. Big line there at the bottom. Tax deductibility, all caps, exclamation points, yes. That's what we're seeing in a lot of these proposals. Well, it's in the Gang of Eight proposal, which again, we think fundamentally, is directionally there. It has not been in every proposal. There has been some resistance from Department of Treasury related to deductibility. Obviously, we've seen the guidance that's come out, but we've hammered away at this. There's bipartisan support for that. Fifty state CPA societies plus the territory's 54 total, all who have sent letters. There are bipartisan congressional letters with as many as 170 members of Congress that have sent letters for it to be included in whatever's passed. We do feel really good about deductibility being included. Thanks, Mark, and the advocacy [inaudible] has been huge raising that level of activity and support. Lisa, let's move it on. We're all watching the questions. The questions just keep coming in and the tax deductibility, obviously, when it goes through, it's going to be for both PPP1 and PPP2. Then the question is, can clients get two PPP loans? Yeah, there will be a second tranche here. If you meet those qualifications that Lisa just covered. Yeah. For those borrowers who got their first PPP loan and want to come back for a second, there's probably going to be some cap on the total of the two loans, but we'll see what happens there. All right. Next slide. So now we're on the simplified forgiveness and this is basically like deductibility. You've had a lot of support for this to be included in this current legislation. Absolutely. This has been such a topic of conversation on these town halls. Currently, we're hearing simplified loan forgiveness at 150,000 or less. What does simplified look like? It may look something like what we've outlined, a one-page form. Still have to do the math behind the scenes because the borrower would certify that they made a good faith effort to comply with the loan and they'll have to report the total amount of loans put on payroll and non payroll. Always have to maintain that documentation. I told someone yesterday, I was an auditor by trade and it never leaves your blood. So get those documents, pull together, and retain them for potential audit. Again, this is what we're thinking it might look like, so we'll see what happens with that. All right. A couple of other provisions. One that we've gotten a lot of questions about is the SBA is making loan payments. They made six months of loan payments on existing 7A loans and the proposal that we've seen from the [inaudible] , it does still include that. I know that's been a big benefit to a lot of borrowers, and also adding supplemental funding for those EIDL grants that ran out of money back in the summer. There's some good stuff in there for our borrowers. We got a couple slides here will just try to step back and look at the forest and what we're saying is the time is now to get prepared for PPP 2. That's why we work so hard on today's Town Hall to give you an early read on what it will be. Clearly, next Thursday we'll have more clarity so stay current with us. Stay current on the current legislation we're giving you the latest information we have today, we'll give you a lot more next Thursday at 03:00 PM. We'll also give any live updates via our social media channels. Be aware of timing, we're going to talk a little bit more about that in the next slide and then you can be proactive. There is a lot of proactive things you can do with your clients right now, you can begin to identify who will be eligible for PPP 2, start that discussion. Let them know that they're going to hear a lot of things in the media. They'll be people that say it's not going to get done and then there's going to be reports that it's going to get done. We're right now thinking that something will happen before the end of the year. Let's talk a little bit about the timing here. Mark did a great job covering this so may I have him just come in to comment after I clear this parts quickly. But focus now is legislation passing not earlier, probably than December 18th-20th, maybe even pushes out a couple of days after that. Once this legislation passes, it gets signed into law then we know Treasury and SBA are going to act quickly, we think before year end, they'll be a lot of pressure on them to get these forms in place and then there could be options for when the lender's start processing these applications and also there's discussion of when the SBA portal, the E train platform goes live could happen as we head to the end of this year. That also could be the first week of '21. So we will be watching all of this, but it is time right now to get ready. Mark, anything you want round out here? I think that get ready advice is absolutely the best. There's going to be some cross current pressures. There was frustration with the roll out during PPP 1 where they were kind of building some of the architecture in flight, if you would have it. So there's some pressure. Let's get this right before we open. But if in fact they've gone through the effort and they understand the need to get stimulus out there. They're going to want the money flowing as quickly as possible and they're going to want to move in. I think you're absolutely right, Erik. We're working. The key stake holders that made PPP 1 happened were the lenders, the payroll companies. We have a very active communication channels with them as we do with Treasury and SBA. So now Lisa it's time for a refresher on payroll costs in PPP loans? One of the things that Erik and I talked about as we were planning for this week's Town Hall, that sure seems like a long time ago. But to start getting ready for PPP 2 what are some of the major components that you're going to need? Obviously you're going to need your payroll cost. So assuming that the program for PPP 2 works like one, just wanted to let you take a look again at what the eligible payroll costs were for the one amount and you'll see what's excluded including the salaries of over a 100,000 all about the under compensation limits. Employee's outside of rest, it does not include the employer share of FICA and Medicare, but to use Erik's points from earlier building capabilities will be creating these capabilities and our resources for you so that you don't have to dig into each and every one of these. Also, the payroll providers we're working with are really committed trying to calculate compliant reports so that you can get these numbers as easy as possible. Moving into the guidance Lisa. So nothing over shattering. Don't feel like you missed anything if you didn't get this new FAQ. But it's all around economic necessity questionnaires form 3509, 3510. It came out just yesterday and as an aside, the forms are also now live on the SPA style. When we talked about this in the past, you could only get access to the forms through your lender but now the questionnaires are on yesterdays site. But the FAQ simply reiterates a lot of the information that we've already provided to you and it follows the instructions they gave to the lender. It's really important to understand that this is one step in the process and it's not the borrowers only chance to make their case that the 2 million dollar and above PPP 1 was needed at the time. So FAQ is therefore if you're interested. One thing on that, Lisa too, because from the advocacy team, we've been talking to Capitol Hill about it and there was actually recently a House Senate letter that went to SBA, raising concern about the chilling effect of these necessity questions and putting some pressure on SBA to provide clarity. My hope is that it's going to be more than what they just released. I agree. No new numbers here, but we did want to just give you this as a reference point, not something we really have to dig into. All we can say is that we do know, based on discussion with lenders who've been here showed 11 percent. It's growing probably getting closer to 20 percent. There are questions here that, some firms are saying that there is pressure to submit the forgiveness application. That is the decision of the small business. There are some lenders that want to kind of move this forward. But that is up to the small business when they want to submit that loan, they have 10 months after they cover period to do that. My next slide is it time to apply for forgiveness? Again, it really is important to talk to your clients and understand what their goals and objectives are. I think we've gone through this in the past. I'll just highlight that is the loan under or over a certain amount? We've got a little bit more from Jell-O. It's still squishy but there is that proposal that we're now seeing around the $150,000 threshold. So that may be an important piece of the conversation to have with your clients. Erik, if you've advanced, I apologize, my slide is not advancing. Yeah, we're on capabilities and this is the time. Actually it's time to get out of Excel and to use the tool, so Lisa I'll let you cover where the tool stands. Thank Erik. If you were on last week's town hall, you saw me nerd out about the new tool capabilities that we've been building out over the last few months. I'll try to keep my enthusiasm a little bit lower this week. But basically we've built-in capabilities that allow firms to integrate the different payroll provider reports, integrate and upload through the AICPA calculators if Excel is your native language. But the ability to upload those calculators and reporting from other providers is really a very efficient way to approach the process. What I thought was really interesting in seeing the latest iteration was the capabilities that have been built-in around user management. Assigning different roles within a firm and being able to manage the application process a little more in detail. If an application needs to be deleted and scraped and started all over again, that's an option. You still have the option and the requirement really to send it to the client for their e-signature they'll be checking off each of their qualifications, completing a nice package of all of the documentation that the client can then provide to the lender is still really good, has the guard rails built in. Our team is actively working with the developers to build in some of our resources, and some of the knowledge that you've gotten through our town halls into the portal so that it gives you some guard rails. Lisa, one last thing, it's about forgiveness, but it's about PPP2. I'm speaking with firms every day that are really gearing up for PPP2, and this tool will support that. This tool will have everything that Lisa just reviewed all of those parameters in place to support a PPP2 application for your clients. You could use this as a way to aggregate that information and determine what they need to go through the steps. You'll also will utilize this tool if they need to have a plan B to submit for the actual loan with the SBA. More on that as this all progresses. Thanks Erik. We've been talking about the CPA support for their clients in this process. In talking to Treasury SBA, the lender community, they really do appreciate and acknowledge the value that CPAs bring their conversation and they're looking for ways when they get a loan application for forgiveness, they want to see that CPA has been looking at the application and working with clients on it. We've drafted some language totally optional, that a CPA can wrap into the package when the client gives it to the lender. That will be in the PPP2 functionality as well. I know we have so many firms that do client accounting services and you put statements on your legend about SAS 70, you supported the preparation of financial statement. This is again in your business relief category where you can really stand out by putting language like this, which will be greatly appreciated by the overall ecosystem. Lisa, thank you. We'll be coming back to you shortly as we get into our open form. You can look at the questions that are coming in a mile a minute. Dan Noll welcome, there's been a lot of requests for you to come back and review year end accounting. I look forward to your session here. Yeah, thank you. It's going to be a short bit because otherwise, we can literally spend hours and days like we just did at the SCC conference this week. What we thought is coming into the traditional busy season, the traditional year end, just to highlight a few topics. I had to clarify that ahead of time because traditional year end, busy season, this year it's been a continuous busy season. I think a lot of people are looking deep into next year for the same point and saying, "When is this all going to end? Things have been delayed, pushed back. It's all going to come together", et cetera, et cetera. Three topics to cover. First one up you see is Rev and Rec and Leases. These are pervasive topics. Every entity either wants Rev, Rec, or it has it, and leases. Almost every entity has some form of lease question of materiality and what have you, so I thought I'll just cover a little bit of this. Revenue recognition, first we did something rare back in June. The Rev Rec standard, the new Rev Rec standard, you might have heard it referred to as an ASC 606, that's just a nomenclature, that's the accounting standards codification number. That was effective for non-public companies, 12/31/19. In June of '20, FASB did something unique. They said, listen, if you're a non-public entity, you have not done your Rev Rec yet, then guess what? Because of the pandemic, we're going to give you a delay. In all reality, the types of entities that benefited from this delay are probably smaller public company types, maybe it's small enough for profits as well. Forget about publics, they already did their accounting a couple of years ago on Rev Rec. Just an important change, but benefiting the smaller primarily. Heads up coming from our peer review team. Some early indications that companies and auditors given if they are aware, a number of companies are not going to have a different Rev Rec answer under the new standard versus what they've been doing for many years. The thing is, you still have to do the work, do the dance of what that ASC 606 new Rev Rec standard requires. There's no getting around it. You still have to go through it, otherwise, the company's relying on luck that they've got Rev Rec. Frankly, a firm is looking at a possible peer review situation. Heads up, you've got to do the work. There's no easy way around it and as somebody reminded last week, you also have some different disclosures under Rev Rec. When you do this new standard, you really do have to pay attention to disclosures even if you get the same answer. It's also an opportunity to think about it. If you are a small company and you've benefited from this delay, just think about whether GAAP is the right accounting framework for you. Professionals long ago, many decades ago, came up with other types of accounting frameworks. You could have cash basis, modified cash basis, tax basis. Even AICPA earlier this decade issued something called the Financial Reporting Framework for SMEs, FRF-SMEs. There's this other comprehensive basis of accounting out there, good point to just think to yourself if you're the company, or the auditor to advise the company, "Do I still need to be following GAAP? If the loan is small, maybe I don't." Same point on leases. In this case, leases benefited many. All private companies as well as not-for-profit organizations, they got a solid delay in this regard so many of them did not optionally implement it early. My same point about OCBOA, if bringing more leases onto the balance sheet, the old operating lease accounting model from balance sheet perspective is gone maybe with some exceptions, think about whether GAAP is the right answer for you. Next slide please. Second topic. You knew we weren't going to just let PPP go by. We had to cover this one. Hopefully this is old news for you and I'm not going to deep dive into something we've already done in these town halls before, but I do need to give you a warm up because the point that I want to cover is a question we get a lot of, and that is, what are other entities doing out there? You might know that there are certain models, I'm going to take you through that. They want to know, they want the comfort. What's everybody doing out there? Recall, this is a technical question and answer we issue, it focuses on non-governmental entities, publics, privates, and not-for-profits. I know I'm not covering any great detail. I'll give you a quick flavor, but there's the length in TQAs. Next slide please. Here's the warmer. For starters, every entity that I mentioned, non-governmental entity, can follow a debt accounting model and be done and not even have a thought or even worry about getting second-guessed. The reason for that is the treasury and the SBA structured this PPP as a loan. From an accounting standpoint, if you want to record it as a loan, record it as a loan, be done with it. From that standpoint, it's really straightforward debt accounting. Debit, cash, credit debt. When the loan gets forgiven, that is when the SBA forgives the loan, that means it's legally released, that is when you can release the liability or reduce the liability. Debit liability, and then credit the gain. I saw that question earlier on in the chat. It does flow through the income statement, the gain does flow through the income statement. Next slide. If you don't follow the debt model, which again is the one you could all follow, then you could look to other models and these get a little trickier. You can see the conditions on the right. I'm going to loosely refer to all of these as a grant model. Under a grant model, it depends who you are. If you're a United States not-for-profit entity, and you don't do the debt model and you follow this grant model, ASC 958 is the one that you must follow. The simple reason is there is GAAP on point for not-for-profits in dealing with grant accounting, specifically conditional contributions. If you're a public company or private company again the public companies, they've done their accounting on this, they're already giving their quarterly reporting. But if you are a private company, you can look to any one of these three models, again, if you meet those conditions on the right, that could be your grant accounting model. These models compared to the debt model, potentially lets you release the liability earlier. There's the benefit of those models, but these models require judgment because it's really tricky and there's no financer on this on when you actually reduce the liability for recording debt forgiveness into income. Next one, please. Lisa we got some great questions coming in. I'm going to advance this, if you want to bring in a question to Dan real time before you drop the form, that might make sense. Go ahead Dan. All that warm up just for this. People ask, what are the publics, the privates, and not-for-profits here doing? Which accounting? Break it down. By the way, this is what we hear anecdotally. This is almost me parroting what we hear. I would appreciate if in the chat folks will either agree with what I say or if you disagree, maybe you have a different perspective from what I say. We can then parrot what we get from you out there into others. Public companies largely following the debt model. The reason is, couple of reasons. One is, you may recall in the early days of when Triple P came out and it came public, no pun intended, when the news came out that public companies were taking us, there was a bit of an uproar saying the public companies, they have access to the capital markets. Why are they doing this? Public companies, the easier answer was to go with the debt model. Plus, they are heavily regulated. If they go with the other models where they potentially released a liability therefore recording gain earlier, there might be reason for second guessing even if they did do the right thing. Private companies, same thing. Private companies for different reasons. Private companies, we hear are following the debt model. Why? It's the one that they're familiar with. Go to a private company in the United States and say, "Hey, do you want to follow a not-for-profit grant accounting model?" They'll look at you cross-eyed. Go to those same privates and say, "Hey, you want to follow that IAS 20, that's an International Financial Reporting Standards?" They're going to look at you cross-eyed. If anything, we're hearing the private companies are following the debt model, maybe some in that gain continuity model because that's something that I think many companies potentially are familiar with in US GAAP. This is my, by the way reminder, get covenants. Remember at the start of the year, none of these entities thought that they were going to have a liability on the books. Any one of these models, did that model any of those grant models? From day 1 it starts out being a liability on the books and that can trip up debt covenants. The reminder here is be proactive. We would say this under any scenario, be proactive and work with your lender. That includes even the accounting firms. I've heard this plenty of times. They typically or often will go with their client to speak to a lender, relationship building, and that's a point AICPA never tires of mentioning. It's an opportunity to build relationships, continue relationships. I think Triple P proved one thing, those companies that had the preexisting strong relationships with the lenders got service better than if they didn't have that. Just another point to remind. Dan, on that point though because we're still at the midway point here because we go to PPP 2, the time is still now to establish those relationships in your spot on about the importance of the lender relationship. I'll tell you this, you've got a lot of votes coming in. The debt model is absolutely winning. Everyone likes your Triple P way you're describing the program. I'll move to the next slide for you at least to hop in if there's a particular question you want to bring on. That's good. Likely, if they keep the same Triple P model in round 2, then I dare say the accounting is probably going to be same. Last point to keep in mind, and this one is a deep breath. Impairment of non-financial assets. Notice I don't say financial assets. I would say primarily because of the Federal Reserve, we are not looking at a financial asset crisis in this country like we did 12 years ago. You remember the early days of this pandemic? My visual was the Fed was out on the mountaintop, the tallest mountain, I guess it's Everest, they just redid the measurement, and they basically said, "I dare you to try to take out a financial asset class because if you do, we're going to buy it." The Fed even had people out there hinting that they may even consider buying equities. Bottom line is, the focus here is on non-financial assets and it is very challenging. I mentioned we had our SEC conference this week. The most resource companies and accounting firms are struggling with this, and it's not because of the accounting standards as much, it's because of the judgments the challenges. How do you forecast when you are in such a world of pain? Anyway, with that, keep this in mind, there are three different impairment models for non-financial assets in GAAP. One is on long-lived assets. You could think of PP&E in that bucket, goodwill also, and indefinite-lived intangibles, things like trademarks, et cetera. For non-public entities, again, the public companies have been dealing with this for various quarters now. Non-public entities are a triggering event approach, and a triggering event example could be something like assets that you had are not being used the way you had previously been using them. Boy, maybe the pandemic is a great example where you have a triggering event to say, "I now have been doing impairment analysis." It's a question of a trigger and then whether you have to go through the whole dance of doing impairment. The timing of the test, and this is a big one that a lot of people don't appreciate. My hand was raised on this too. The pandemic started in March, let's say you're a 12/31 year-end company. When you come in, even if you come in later into next year and you try to do your financials as of 12/31, you have to be that March mindset, not the 12/31 mindset. GAAP says when the impairment happen, or a possible trigger happen, you've got to be in that mindset. Then you also have to do the measurement in that mindset. You cannot say, "Here I am, I'm coming in next year, and I see 12/31. Everything got better." That's not yet. That's almost like a tight queue subsequent event notion. That's not literally what I mean, but it's like it. The timing of the test really is an eye-opener in people, and I would just say this other point, FASB is voted to work on a fast-track project and Goodwill impairment for non-publics. There are some conditions to this, but I'm going to give it here real quick and high level. That is that FASB would allow, for Goodwill only, the idea that you can come in in 12/31, where the 12/31 had and see what has transpired since March to determined whether you really did have a triggering event and whether you do have a measurement loss on impairment. Then the last slide, just in terms of how hairy this impairment model is, and I will quote a FASB board member in a meeting last week who observed that the impairment model under GAAP is complex. Now, how is that for a direct statement right between the eyes? I'm just going to leave you with this. Here is a whole order to impairment. The difficulty of trying to analyze whether you have a loss is hard enough. Even the order, maybe, it's not intuitive to many. Erik, I'm going to stop there. Can I jump in and ask you a couple of questions Dan? Yes please. Yes Lisa, get in there. The chat one has lit up and I think, we probably even Lisa one day would like for Dan to do a summary again just on the private, the not-for-profit, and the different options available to them, but Lisa shoot away. Yes. We do have some questions, are not-for-profits using debt or grant models? What are you seeing there? Because I forgot to mention yet. Thank you for that. What we hear, and we do have a not-for-profit expert panel, we hear that the not-for-profits are more following their grant model. That's the ASC 958 number we referred to. Why? Because many not-for-profits are quite comfortable dealing with that grant model or that conditional contribution model. It's familiarity. I think that is the theme of all three different groups. What is familiar and what is the one that maybe will be least second guessing. Let me ask you a couple quick questions about the debt model and then we'll drive on. Should the debt be classified as short-term or long-term if forgiveness is expected in the next year? This is a hard one. I don't know if you're going to get a straightforward answer on this because think about for the non-publics, think about the ones who've already done their fiscal year and maybe they haven't hit the county you're in because you're fiscal year-end company and you had to make decisions on this. It's a judgment call on whether you think the forgiveness will happen within that 12 months cycle. For that question, I don't know how companies are playing, and again let's remember the 12/31 calendar year-end companies and not-for-profits have not had to make that decision yet because they haven't done the accounting. I'm going to ask you one more quick debt model question. If you're using the depth model and the loan is forgiven, are they recording it as a gain, as income, or are they recording it as contra expense? Yes. In the debt model, its gain, and I did see that question before we came live. Debt model is gain. When you're on that IAS 20 model, it's an IFRS standard, when you're in that model, you have an option of doing a contra expense versus recording it as income, but for the debt model, it's basically gain on extinguishment effect. Cool. Thanks. With that I want to give you a quick news alerts on single audits. If you remember a few weeks ago Mary Foster from our governmental audit quality center was on and we talked about the fact that a lot of new borrowers were going to be facing single audits for the first time. Some news that we'd like to share with you, we expect that in mid-December, and that's the 10th, that there will be an announcement providing a three-month extension for single audits of 2020 year-ends for those recipients if they only received the Covid-19 funding. She gives you the site to stay tuned to. We'll have that out on our CPA letter daily and we'll make sure that we bring that up in a future Town Hall, but we wanted to share that breaking news with you. That's what we're expecting. Here, Lisa, maybe next week, jointly, this additional relief program category will be filled in with something and what the name and the exact file bill will be to be determined. More to come on that, but this just brings us back to what we've been saying for the past six months that it's reacting. The first category here, business restrictions reacting with your clients, making adjustments. Then it's compliance, we've admitted compliance mode here, about PPP forgiveness, but it's all also advisory. As now you're thinking about you got to go to your clients that potentially could be eligible, start having that discussion with them, and then it's clearly being proactive and playing that trusted advisor role with these business model reviews. This is all going to continue well into 2021, even 2022, and we do think that this business relief category and advisory services has become a new line with inside the firm. Mark Peterson, I want to bring you back, lots of talk still about where the tax filing relief stands. No, no, no, a lot of practitioners that are dealing with very upset clients, starting in July, we started to have discussions with the IRS asking for relief, knowing there were going to be COVID related issues both for practitioners and for their clients. We have our, by the way, an extremely good working relationship with the IRS on many levels. Again, we have a major role, obviously, in the voluntary tax system, and unfortunately, those conversations did not end in a way where we came to agreement about some type of relief. So we have continued to push. We continue to believe there has to be some relief. We have been very upfront in that both in the press. We've been working with others and the other stakeholders in the tax proprietor community. We have a joint coalition letter that has gone to Capitol Hill and to the IRS, and there's actually now a bi-partisan. Again, I said bi-partisan, there's actually a lot of agreement up there on a lot of these issues that we care about. Fifty members of congress that are also asking that the IRS move forward with providing relief for these COVID-related issues. We don't have a resolution, but I just did want to relay that we are getting lots of incoming calls and frustration because of the penalty notices that are going out and we're doing everything we can to engage the IRS and the policymakers to come to some resolution. Yeah, huge grassroots effort there, Mark. Let's now go to open forum, you can put the four squares up there, and a couple of things. The Gang of Eight framework proposal I was told is now in that resource section, so that orange arrow, you can click on it, you should be able to download that. We're also going to include a link in the follow-up e-mail that we send to all attendees, so you'll have two opportunities to get that. Let's kick this off. I'll tell you, Dan Noll, I think, we are going to have you back sometime soon, but a question here just about the private business in the grant accounting. Just clarify that again, there's a couple of questions came in. Private business, even though the debt model is more popular, can you just talk about the steps for the private business to take advantage of grant accounting for PPP, as you're calling it? Yeah. You see habits don't dive very easy when you come up with these phrases, but if you're a private company and you say, I really believe that this is a grant. In other words, I expect this to be forgiven. You look to basically say, I'm looking at those general conditions on that slide and I'm saying, I guess is reasonable. I can use grant accounting. But grant accounting starts out very similar to debt accounting. It still says on day one, you're debiting cash, that's cash fit nowadays, debiting cash, you're crediting effectively a liability. It's an obligation until you start getting comfortable as forgiven, and I saw a question in the chat. I was trying to scroll through very quickly. I'm going to answer two birds with one stone here. The trick is when under a grant accounting model, can you start releasing that liability and in effect, recording and recognizing the income. That question in the chat, that is a wide-open judgment area. There are some, and I've heard this described in political terms, there are some who were so liberal on it, they would say that, "Yeah, you could start recognizing that income pretty quickly, because we really do think that conditions are there and that this will be forgiven," and there are others who are closer to almost a debt model which says, "No, you better be darn sure before you start bringing that into income." But I would submit to you no matter what, if we're talking about private companies, we're talking about a company that probably got their debt, their regular loan, their operating capital, from the same banks that helped them with the PPP loan. I also want to say, shrug on what accounting model you pick, talk to your banker, like we talked about earlier, debt covenant model, build those relationships, and just talk to the banker. At the end of the day, that's your relationship. You're not worried like a public company with capital markets and people buying and selling your stock who you'll never meet. This is probably one and the same banker that you deal with if you're a private company. Thanks, Dan. At least I'll give Mark Peterson a question and you hop in here. Mark, a couple of questions about extending the April 15th tax deadline. No, I was guessing that one was going to come in. The reality is is the deadlines are tough working with the membership because everybody has a difference of opinion. So we don't have a majority anywhere. The reality is where we are now for 2021 is April. Now, having said that, the tax division is in discussions looking at what occurred this past year and trying to work through those things, but the big X factor, to be honest, is the IRS's ability to get through tax season. Right now, what I would say is we're going to stick with April from a policy position, until it becomes clear that the IRS can't handle it. That was very clear last year as the pandemic kicked in and we were calling for an extension of April. We'll see what this year looks like, but right now, still April. Lisa. Thank you. Lots of questions in there and conversations about what's PPP2 going to look like. I wanted to share some insights from our conversations with lenders today because I'm getting e-mails from some folks because their clients are getting asked for supplemental documentation around the forgiveness process, and these are loans under two million, subject to heightened review, but the SBA is absolutely sending out requests for all of that documentation that's listed at the bottom of the application that says you don't have to submit it, but you have to keep it. They are coming back to the lenders and saying, we want all that documentation. They do not have a theme as to a loan amount theme as to a particular industry that's triggering that. They are not currently aware of what's triggering the SBA to ask for that additional documentation, but I did want to just give you guys a heads up, that don't be surprised. I think the number was maybe three to five percent across the 10 lenders or so that were on our call today. They are getting asked and just be ready for that. That's why it's important to keep all that documentation available. Erik, did you see any others in the Q&A that you wanted to bring up? I'll just say one thing, this is just an experience, you can refresh your browser sometimes. We're still getting comments about resource materials. Refresh your browser and if you don't get it, you can't find the Gang of Eight framework proposal, then you will get a link to it in our follow-up e-mail. One thing with all of this information, we are going to encourage you to leverage some of the capabilities that we're putting out. Right now, PPPs are a 500-page act, with this next act coming, it could be over 1,000 pages, and this is a time to start leveraging capabilities. Using these tools to be guardrails for you, to support your clients and to work a little bit more on the advisory side and not try to memorize all of the compliance elements. I just got a quote, "Gang of Eight showed up." Lisa, one last question. What a name, Gang of Eight. PPP, Gang of Eight. Lisa, if you want to bring one last question, then we'll move into our closing section. Yeah, a question that I saw within the Q&A was around how to figure out if your payroll provider is giving those PPP compliant reports, and many, many, of them are, the easiest way to find out is simply to ask your payroll rep or check out their website. Make sure that you're looking for the compliant reports. They're probably trying to label them very clearly. It's also best practice to save those as a PDF instead of an Excel file because the lenders are really hesitant to accept Excel files and because of the capability for them to be manipulated. Just a tip there as you're working on your forgiveness process. Okay, thanks Lisa, Dan, and Mark. We've got some just important information as we close out here. All of these town halls are available in our archive. Today's town hall will get out shortly. We'll tweet out when it's available, and you can share that with other people in your firm, clients, other members of your company. Please do leverage those archives and we continue to update our different resource pages with information, guidance. Here's the SBA site that Lisa and our team tirelessly maintain. Then what we're doing is we're highlighting all of your social activity. We appreciate that. We even know today that a lot of you are tweeting out some of the information that we're providing. We think that's an effective way to connect with the broader membership. Today, we've had, again, over 6,700 attendees, and your questions are excellent, and we leverage those in driving what we're doing here on a weekly basis, and even more broadly, what we're doing at the AICPA. This is we're in a sprint week, where every day is a sprint in some ways. So we're going to have another town hall next week at 3:00 PM. You're auto-registered for that. Most of you are auto-registered and you can forward this link to others if they want to register, and we'll stay in touch with you, as we've been saying, via LinkedIn and Twitter and our resource centers. Thank you so much for your engagement today. Thanks to Lisa, Mark, and Dan, and to the broader team that's helping us put these events on. So you have a good night, and look forward to seeing you next week. Thanks. 