 [MUSIC PLAYING] Welcome to mobile enablement for SAP works zone. My name is Sam Lechner. Let's look at today's work environment and its challenges. Employees use many tools to work with various information data. This comes at a high price. Employees spend a lot of time switching between application, which is increasing the chance of mistakes. Decisions and actions are taking about a complete view. New steps are added constantly. Employees are overwhelmed by the avalanche of messages and notification, this makes employees ineffective reactive. A lack of dashboards, try providing strategic insights and overviews leads to issues being discovered too late. Like budget overrun, projects running late, and missed revenue. And the moment the employee steps outside the office, access to this data gets even more complicated. Working from home, remote, or on a mobile device limits access to the complete you. This is where SAP Work Zone comes into place. The main focus of SAP Work Zone is to improve the employee experience. SAP work zone provides searched to enable employees to find information fast. A single inbox to give access to unified workflows, corporate information page allow employees to stay up to date with the latest internal news. A chatbot integration enables fast access to common tasks and information. Customized workspaces allow employees to build their own information cockpit. Reports and dashboards can give insights to prevalent information. Let me demo you SAP Work Zone and its mobile client now. So when we open up Work Zone, the first page, which opens is a structural corporate information page. Here, the employee can find all information very easily structured. Then I have a toolbar here, access to workspaces and applications. And if we never get over the first big feature, which we have inside the header bar is the search. So I can type and do a full text search through all of the items right up front pages and content. Then I have access through my workflows, which are in the works on Inbox. And I also have notification. So if anything is waiting for me, tasks, items which I'm collaborating with others, I can find them here in the notifications list. And then last but not least, in the toolbar is the me area, where I can configure and personalize the workshop for me. And then let's navigate over to the collaboration space. And this is the space where employees work together on. Instead of emailing items back and forth, Work Zone has a central place where documents and items are stored. And I can open these items and I can see right away where there is feedback from other colleagues in the place. There is a different version a document can have, I can see divergence, I can see who worked on it, and I can also get feedback. This is all in one place. That means that nothing gets lost, and the process is speed up. And let's go right the feedback is. And this speeds up the process and makes the working on the document much easier. Let's close this, and let's go to the My Workspace. My workspace area and works on is the personal cockpit of an employee. Here I have the capability to maintain links to applications and shortcuts, also have these integration cards which are views to data. So I can see KPIs or reports of items, and I can personalize this completely. So I can just go to the Edit screen. And if I want to add a new card, I can just click here on the Add Widget. And I have various capabilities to standard cards, but we also have this new integration cards. And for example, if I want to have, I need to know the sales orders. I can just click on Add, and it adds this sales order card to my cockpit, and I can just go and track this up obviously, because it's not our own space. We want to have this all the way up. I click on Publish, here we go. I have now overview of when I open this workspace, or my workplace, I have a clear overview of the top sales orders, and top products, and this is information directly coming from the enterprise backgrounds. And let's stop as an employee here and let's switch for a little bit to the developer of view. Let me show you how these cards are built. And we can do this in the business application studio. All right. When you open up business applications studio, we have a front page where we can basically see all of the basics. And then if we want to build an integration card, we can go to the templates area and open up the UI integration wizard. OK. Next here, give this-- get the name sales numbers, we want to have line card. This is picking just a simple template for us. Our name sales KPIs, and we obviously do this for Germany. We want to mobile enable this to have a look at these cards later also on the mobile device. And we click Finish. And what happened now, it generated the card for us. And if we open up the manifest file, you see the details here. Right and this is information about the card. I have a first number, in which I can change. Obviously I can play multiple versions of the card. I have more information on how the card is structured. And if you want to see more details about it, you can just look for UI integration cards. You get to the UI five page. They have a very good documentation on the side, and what is possible, what type of card types are already available for you within the guidelines. And then also how to develop cards, and even test drive them here. So it's a great place for you to get more information. But let's get back here so I can also preview a card here, and I can do changes here. My card has the title of sales KPIs. And I just save this. I can see the changes right away. And let's go package and this one more time. The card is packaged. Close all of these down here, and let's go and deploy this. Deploy the integration card to our work zone. And then this makes the card available to all employees. It asks me if I want to deploy a version 1.2, I said yes. 1.2 go ahead. And we wait until this is done. The card is deployed, and now I can switch back to Work Zone, and we can have a look how the card looks there. So Work Zone. Now I go to my work area. I want to add this new card to my Work Zone. So I just go and say Edit here, as I did before. And obviously, you want to have this new card on this side. I scroll down, and we have the sales KPIs for Germany card. And here we are, this card which I designed earlier in the work zone, or in the business application studio, is now inside Work Zone. And I can just go play. I saved publish, and I have new integration card which is available now for all employees. So then I have a dashboards reports, all sorts of information at their key viewing. So they don't need to navigate deep into various screens. They can see everything right in one place. Let's have a look how this looks like on a mobile device. So the first application SAP has connected to Work Zone is mobile cards. So an employee can see key information here and inside the application. This is like the wanted application, where I can just tap on a card, I can flip a card, and I can see details on the card. The cards refresh in the background, and they give me access to the data I want to have on the go. And not only do I see the data, I also have the capability of via actions to process workflows and do certain actions. And as you already see, we have a card here, which is also inside our dashboard. So I cannot only perhaps cards, I can see them. I can also bring the cards very easy to my device. And let's do this. Here with this card, I just go and click add to mobile, and we switch back to the mobile device. Now I can see that the card was successfully added, and here we have the card. That's ready for mobile rendering, and it will update in the background as well. So the data the user sees will always be up to date. It's not stable data. And this is all still using my enterprise credentials. So I'm logged into the application, and I can only grab the data, or see the data which I have access to. This all means that if I have access to see the data in my cockpit, obviously you have the authorization to see the data in the back ends, and hence I'm logged in with the same user on the mobile card's application. And then I can see this data also here. The second application we have is SAP Work Zone. It's a dedicated application build for Work Zone, and it gives you the employee, a little bit more capability than in a mobile card application. I can here interact and actually work the process item. So when application starts, I can see a feed, I can right away see what I have changed. I can also see tasks which are due, this is with the notification area and my work zone will be like, and I can navigate on home side. And again, here I can see the same things I could see on my desktop. Obviously this is now done for the mobile screens, it's a little condensed, but I also have the search capability. I have the inbox, I have in the me area. So I can see the same items here, and I can also see the documents. And if I, for example, want to look into the details of a document, I can also view them here on a mobile device. And I can see the comments also, which I did before, and which the colleague has done before. So it's the mobile application for Work Zone gives the employee the capability to also do things on the road. This is the same view as a desktop, it's just optimized for the mobile device. And the same thing here, I also have my workspace available, which gives me a view of the tiles or the cards, like I have them on the desktop. And I can do the same things like I had to do on desktop. And work with items if I need to do that on the road as well. So this is the mobile options we have for the SAP Work Zone. And let's switch back to the PowerPoint. To summarize what you saw, how employees can work together in one place, how employees can build their own cockpit with cards to accelerate their daily work, how employees have fast access to content, how easy data analytics can be provided, and I showed you how easy it is to extend SAP Work Zone to bring all of the key information into one cockpit. SAP Work Zone is part of the extension suite which simplifies the development of your digital business applications. You can continue learning with SAP Learning Hub after TechEd, and deepen your knowledge with SAP solution skills. Thank you very much, and enjoy TechEd. [MUSIC PLAYING] 