 Welcome Karsten, welcome Tobi. Your stage, and we're happy to get the news from your -side. Thank you. -Thank you, Florian. And so, as I've heard, I'm supposed to run a bit quicker to make up some of the time and that I will do. -A bit crisper, not quicker, Karsten. -So it's a bit about a year since I last talked about product at the customer summit. And at that time I was talking about the upcoming release CoreMedia Content Cloud V10, and I'm very happy that it's now released and available. We actually released already two enhancement packs and we're going to release the next one in a few weeks. Oh, yes, I have to share my slides. That's your right. Now, I can actually talk about the features that we have delivered, and I'm also very happy that I have seen some things already being used. So an important component: content hub, we released that. That makes it easy to integrate external repositories like digital asset management systems or external file systems, image providers. You have the capability to preview, drag and drop. We have done improvements on caching to make it perform better and we see a lot of opportunity, a lot of chances for you to integrate content you have in your companies into CoreMedia and yeah, use it on your websites. Experience feedback. hub. That's one where I am very excited as it allows us to integrate feedback from a multitude of systems in to studio. For content tagging for SEO performance for semantic analysis, accessibility checks. There are many things and you will see a few later in the demo from Olli and I can also preview a few integrations that we have done in CoreMadie Labs. Commerce hub. So we rebuild our commerce integrations to make them more versatile, to make them easier, to integrate, to support multi commerce environments that customers have asked for to improve performance. And we also added new features like category search. Also, brand new marketing automation hub with our Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connector that allows us to push content to marketing automation system, you can today use profiles in Salesforce Marketing Cloud to try personalization. And you can write data back in to the marketing platform that you gather on your website from forms or from similar things you want to do there. We also put a lot of work into studio and one very visible thing. Oh, sorry, wrong topic, content as a service. I forgot that one. We introduced the new component to support new channels that had, well, with headless, with in-store displays. Many things you see out there. It's based on GraphQL and you can use REST to really drive omni channel experience wherever you need your content in your company. It's integrated with preview. It's integrated with our commerce hub and you can also build applications that use our content application engine and headless delivery hand in hand. Now I'm coming to studio, colorful studio was introduced with the last major. You can now use color coding to better identify content in your system. We altered it a number of small improvements that you can experience, but we are also continuing our work on studio and are currently working on a redesign that is already available in the last enhancement pack as an option to enable. We got a lot of feedback from our customers, from our partners and took that into account to make our studio fresh, more usable and more user friendly. We also did architectural and devops changes. We now have a fully dockerized deployment with Springwood apps. We are going towards a more modular application workspace. We upgraded major components in our system Java 11, Solar 8. Many things to keep up to date with the current technology environment we're living in. And finally, user management in CoreMedia studio. I know that's a topic that many have asked us about for a while and we finally got to implement it and it's available in CoreMedia studio today. So you can create users, manage users, you can manage rights all the things you want to do with user management. We also have Commedia Labs where we are working on prototypes on integrations of third party systems that we make available to you. I talked about feedback Hub and how you can use it to get feedback into studio. One integration we've done is with SiteImprove, a company that provides feedback on. SEO, on acceptability, they're actually working with the EU on the Horizon 2020 project for accessibility tooling. So you can see the score of your website, how you're currently doing, but you can also compare it to your working edition so you can see when you're doing changes, will it improve my scores on accessibility or SEO or they also have their own digital tool certainty index. So it really helps to make sure that your content is found, that it's accessible and it heards to your quality standards that you set for your content. Another integration into experienced feedback hub with SearchMetrics that helps you creating content that's based on briefings. You create to target specifics, search terms, to specific audiences. So they observe what's going on in Google, what is trending. What you need to make sure in your content to target specific searches and to make sure that your content is found and you get a good reach with what you create. And that's integrated right into studio so you can see the feedback while you're creating the content for that. Another big topic for us is personalization. It's been around for a while and just over the last 12 months we have seen a big increase in interest in the topic and actually quite a few of our customers are working on that. So we are working on making it easier and better to integrate that with CoreMedia. So in Labs we are currently working on an integration with Monitate to make sure that we can drive content experiences based on the data they gather. The logic they have implemented and make sure that it is easy to use that information to target content to specific segments, to specific users and be able to roll that out on a global scale, to be able to personalize in multiple languages and multiple countries or and over multiple brands. Another topic and we heard a before about this is translation localization. So we have our translation and localization workflows and with the GlobalLink Connector that's actually certified, we released the first connector in to the translation system based on our API. Is we also working with other vendors in that space. And so you can see more integrations will be coming. And we are also extending the capabilities that are available there. Another exciting integrationists social media hub that's released in Labs that allows you to broadcast to publish content to social networks. And yeah, it makes it easy to extend the reach to extend the audience to these channels so that your content is also promoted and found there. Here is a quick overview over the last over the major released in the last a piece were released, including the upcoming where we have more features, more capabilities and yeah, we are continuing to work on this and this actually when I talk about roadmap. So over the next 12 months, we have a few topics that we are very excited about. Personalization I already talked about. We also see a lot of demand for better campaign support, better scheduling and better collaboration. Also, our commerce ecosystem is, well, very alive. We see a lot going on and we see demand for more integrations. And a very interesting one right now is Salesforce Commerce B2B, where we're working on. Studio. also, a lot is going on, we see a lot of demand, we see we get a lot of feedback. So we're working on incorporating that into the product. And we already built a foundation for studio apps which will make it easier to build more unique, distinguished studio experience, so yet that you really can focus on certain areas. You can also see or expect some apps being released from us. We are working on that. It's not really. I cannot really say when the first one will be released, but I am very excited, excited about the topic and I think it will change. A lot when it comes to specific tasks, specific user groups where you can really develop. And provides highly optimized applications for that. Multi-X, so localization, multi sites, multi brand. All these topics are at the top of our mind and we are building on improving that, extending our capabilities and making that easier and more efficient for you. The customization workflows and here I talk about how developers help partners into act with our software, how they develop your applications, your experiences, we what we are working on, improving that, making it easier, making it easier to maintain that. Making upgrades easier. So making sure you can quickly and efficiently achieve the goals you have for your applications. And we're also working on more integrations, and you will see that when I show you some of our technology partners we are currently working with. And one thing that I can also commit to coming very soon, and I expect mid of this year is commenting in studio, which will allow you to collaborate right in studio to comment on content, to comment on properties and so to better coordinate within a team and interact and hear hopefully being able to create better content. Technology partners, we are always working with many, many technology partners, not just the selection of the ones we are currently very engaged with. We have the commerce vendors where we have productized integrations. We have many partners in the translation feed and the personalization field in this feedbag oriented fields. So we are working on more integrations. We have initiatives going on where we want to learn how to better provide API to integrate. We are also supporting partners that do their own integrations, which is great. Some of our implementation partners have integration, but also some technology partners. Vendors for systems are building integrations for CoreMedia. And you see different feeds where they are operating and what you can expect in the future. We can expect prefabrication and easier integration into our system. And at this point I'm going to hand over to Tobias, as he's talking about deployment and cloud. Yes. I hope you can hear me. Thumbs up or down, Karsten. Thumbs up so I hope everybody can hear me. So hello from from my side from the Home Office as well. I would like to give you just a brief update on the way cCoreMedia Content Cloud is packaged up these days and what the shape of the tooling is that we provide and how you can take it from there and build out your moderate CoreMedia infrastructure and also how CoreMedia fits hopefully nicely into your existing infrastructure. So this is probably not a big surprise for you. I hope I can slip the slides here. So this is probably not a big surprise for you. That containers are the future and the futurists containerised and we've been saying that for quite a while and we've been also working towards that. But we really doubled down on that in in V10. Containers are the preferred packaging format and building containers with your software in it and your software based on CoreMedia and it is now not as easy or easier hopefully as ever. And it is very much built into the CoreMedia blueprint itself. So basically all you have to do is activate a maven profile and build your stuff and then contair will fall out, which you can then use. This also means that Chef deployment is deprecated as of today. It will still be supported during the lifetime of V10, but there's currently no plans to port it to a Chef version beyond 14, which is what it is based on now. And that version itself, so the Chef version, is a year older later on this year. We have currently no intention to provide a new version on it, which leads to the question what tools should you then rely on to manage your software workloads and your modern infrastructure? And we very strongly believe that container orchestration is the way to go. And that Kubernetes is the way to go is kind of establishing itself or is already established as the de facto standard here. So actually, a lot of partners and customers we've talked to who who have been using it already or who have very concrete plans to use it in the near future. You've, for example, heard the great presentation from the Generali folks who were using open shift. Open shifts is basically, you can think of it as a enterprise Kubernetes. So the concepts around it are very, very similar or even the same. So there used to be a bit of a race just a couple of years ago or even just one year ago, there were swarm and there was missiles. But quite honestly, we see very strong signs that this race is over or that battle is over and that Kubernetes is something that everybody can agree on, at least for the foreseeable future. So we do our homework and now actually very close to providing Kubernetes support in the shape and form of a couple of things. One of it is actually very close. It's how three bass charts that we intend to release on GitHub. A first draft of it is probably going to come out in April 2020 already. And we very much hope for your feedback. If you're interested in that kind of stuff, we're very open for feedback and hopefully you're going to be able to weave that in to the way this all develops. The second building block is a custom operators for Kubernetes. So custom operators are basically Kubernetes' answered to, you know, encapsulating best practices on how to operate your software. And this, in our case, CoreMedia in the cloud. So it deals with the question of how to do things like backup, scale in and out delivery nodes, doing rolling updates or even chenery updates and so on and so forth. So we're also planning to provide a bunch of these. These are a little bit farther out, but hopefully we're going to be able to churn out something later on this year as well. And then, of course, documentation, at least a couple of guidelines on how to deploy in Kubernetes and friends. So that is the stuff that we are planning to do in this year. Also, very briefly, a few things that we added to our CoreMedia service. No wrong way. Sorry about that. So here we go. Recent and upcoming improvements in CoreMedia Content Cloud service, so stuff that we actually added to our managed posted offering of CoreMedia Content Cloud. Well, first and foremost, this obviously CoreMedia Content Cloud v10 capable now. So that's perfectly fine too. We can operate CoreMedia Version 10 in the cloud. Not surprisingly, probabl. We've added a few interesting things. I just picked out a few. So Secrets management is one of them. So if you have like a third party API key that you don't want to tell us and you're not supposed to tell us, you can manage that yourselves in the cloud manager. The social support for custom domains and the related certificates. We can also upload your custom certificates to the cloud manager and can then use it to host your software based on CoreMedia with your custom domains. Another interesting add-on is – that was driven by a customer – actually is a more fine granular way of managing rights for the users that use CoreMedia Content Cloud in the cloud. And so you can actually now assign roles based on the environment. So a user can have different roles. And let's say that the UAT environment than on the production environment. What's coming up very shortly, we're planning to roll it out to an existing customer in the next couple of days and weeks, actually is access to logging in monitoring services. So you can get a, well, Grafana dashboards to tell you about the health and custom metrics and all kinds of metrics actually from your software. And also Grafana lets you tick through log files very, very comfortably. We use it ourselves. But now the next step is to be able to the developers and customers to also use that based on the service. And also what's coming up is self-service deployments and pre-production environments. You used to have to write a support ticket to do that before. But quite soon you will be able to do that with basically just a single click. So that's a quick overview. So the offering has certainly taken a few very interesting steps recently, I think. And one thing that personally I'm very excited about is that we managed to migrate our first customer from an on premise kind of setup into our managed hosted offering, which proves that this is definitely a viable option. So that's very exciting times for us. We hope that this will not have been the last customer that has taken that step. And we'll just keep going and continue to improve the service, hopefully, and make it even more convenient to use and more powerful. That's all for me. Very briefly, back to Florian, I guess. 