 How long is this Gonna take? the rest of the day Longer if it was my life in Danger David I'd be clearly assurance. Yes, I get it [I] Screwed up, but having a face hanging. It's not exactly helping [I] Expect not [did] you get last name? Just holly then And you brought her here to work [showoff] I Didn't know that she was going. It'll go a lot quicker if you just answer my questions strength David Well, you know exactly why I brought her [to] the office, and it's not like it ended the way that I expected What did she tell you? Her name's Holly She's like my tie No alarm bells at that And you mentioned your work section? she asked about Affection and you said you were the head technical honcho, and he could hook her up with a tour of the office Show her the multi-million pound research facilities, and I have a play the commercially sensitive computer equipment Something like that Something like that How you usually pick up woman? But offering him a free makeover I'm not perfect, but [with] my help the right girl can be I am simply trying to ascertain where she got My imperfections upset about this particular love Okay The world is augmented in our brain nanobots I'm aware this David Yes, Nanobots, but have you any idea what they actually do easy to most people They just take it for granted but look Prefrontal Cortex Temporal Lobe optic nerve visual Data comes in from the eyes Retina with Nanobots We can Hijack that flow before that data reaches the Brain these screens they're a Delusion a shared hallucination [my] brain shows an image here screen and shares of another box in the vicinity in this case with a box in your brain Essentially the visual data that you're receiving has been hacked as you can imagine the applications the cosmetics industry our revolutionary the nanobots can be made to Almost anything Improve them to your face Change your color absolutely, no physical makeup necessary Well the effect is somewhat limited What is that? that is the future how we Lose the limits that's what she took that's why she stole It's a prototype It puts out a [signal] the crate and utterly lifelike augmentation tricking the brain of anyone nearby into believing that Effectively, the wearer is someone else It's like is ahead of its time Little beauty allows the wearer to become whomever they want You know to anyone to everyone and appear even feel actually [with] but of course There are flaws [plus] It borrows a bit of the users brain to process the illusion it puts a kind of strain on Anyone who's wearing it can be? unpleasant We haven't found anyone who can wear it for more than quarter of an hour? And you don't than that? Brain turns the soup This conversation is to remain within the walls of perfection [of] course They are saying it's impossible for someone to yield [no], I'm saying that we haven't yet found the subject who can I? Have a chance with Holly could handle at all very small She do get that section by lying about your tie. I mean she wouldn't understand it anyway what it is? So who else knows about this apart from me? just whitey Dr.. [Farr] [Gasps], Dr.. Marquez and Terry Cryer But that's all I'll need to speak [with] them over your home. I won't be a problem. I must say I'm quite impressed The things you can do with technology Well is your name oh Um, but I can look it up to you. You don't know about Hormone typically it's not okay. I'm sorry. I don't know why not well, I Haven't quite gotten used to you have [but] stuff Thanks. Do you understand a little better what this thing actually is? keep your head ache Right you know and it'll help put a stop [to] all of this oh I can get in the hang of it please [this] thing on for three hours very impressed in funny being with you again I've got three more points to get to You're not thinking straight listen to me look at what you can do. It's Incredible it doesn't matter what you've done. You know we can work that out, but you are actually wearing it and using it I Love that it is the end result typical Yeah, yeah two wrongs don't make a right. blah blah, I get it. Even in the pretty industry killing is an ugly business, but then again, I don't have to be the one to do it Someone Else can. Watch just like [this] video Subscribe for new visions of the future every week it is the business of the [future] to be dangerous Your future is best 