 Augmented reality isn't just a gimmick any more. In most industries, practical solutions are entering the market. At CeBIT2017, the Austrian company CodeFlügel shows us, how these solutions could look. Mr. Mooslechner, what kinds of solutions does CodeFlügel offer? -- CodeFlügel offers applications supporting sales and distribution processes, which are also ideal for marketing purposes. These are mobile applications for smartphones and tablets with the addition of Augmented Reality, in order to provide a much more interactive experience to the customers. -- What exactly is augmented reality? -- Augmented reality is the combination of analog and digital media. Meaning that I've got the possibility of combining a catalog, flyer or whatever with digital contents and thus adding value to them. For instance, I can have a video playing directly on my brochure, I can display my products in three dimensions and make them configurable. Additionally, I can also directly connect these materials to my online shop (if I have one), in order to make the path from the catalog or the product to the actual order process as easy and enjoyable as possible for the customers. -- Who or what kind of customer can potentially benefit from augmented reality? -- Basically, augmented reality is interesting for any kind of producing company or industrial clients, who want to present their products and it can be used as a marketing tool practically anywhere, in order to attract attention. I'll give yo some examples: Maybe I want to buy a marquee for my house. Now, of course, it's not possible to have it mounted beforehand, because that would be hard to do technically and logistically. But if the sales rep comes to me with the augmented reality app, they can virtually place that on my wall, exactly where it is supposed to go later. They can modify the size and show me different color options and I get a pretty good idea of how the actual product will look when it's installed. Of course, the same goes for very large or complex machines. You have a hard time taking those with you for sales talks or trade shows. It's a logistical nightmare. But now, you have the option of showing animated 3D models which give the customer a good idea of what the product can do, how it is special, how it works, what happens on the inside and so on. And then there's the attracting attention bit, the marketing. To name just one example, we created a campaign for an Australian youth organization, where we visualized an animated flying dragon. It wasn't about presenting a product, the aim was simply to show what is happening in order to draw them in, in order to make the presented issues tangible for them. -- Are there also solutions for the retail sector? -- Of course. Also here, we have some really useful applications to show you. As I said, with augmented reality you can connect a traditional paper catalog to your digital online shop. That means I can have special digital deals inside the catalog, because I know which kind of customer is looking at the product. If they're a very loyal or new customer, for example, I can make a special offer visible to them. If there are products with different variations, you can configure them directly on your tablet and then directly order that very configuration without having to go and look for it in the online shop manually. And another huge advantage for business client is that they can track which products are viewed for what amount of time. Which means they have a more informed optimation tool for the catalog, where they can either pull a product from the catalog altogether or place it more prominently, if necessary.  