 VARx was CSUN's yearlong exploration into virtual and augmented reality. VR is when you immerse yourself completely into a virtual environment and usually you see people putting on some type of HMD, head mounted display, and they can't see outside of that. They're completely in a virtual environment. Augmented reality looks more like I can see everything in the real world, but also at the same time I'm having something projected onto my screen, so it's like a virtual overlay to the real world. So we had different events focused on psychology, and we invited those faculty, and sciences and the arts, and for each one of those events we got more and more faculty exposed to how this might affect them in their teaching and for students learning. Some of our guest speakers included Jeremy Bailenson from Stanford. He spoke about VR in psychology and the research he's done over the past twenty years. Some really fantastic stuff. Another guest speaker we had was Zenka. She can have people have an AR experience by using their iPad with it to have virtual things come out of her paintings. In the arts, and where I'm at, we're very focused on creation and content creation. And for me personally, and I think my students, we see that as being right up our alley. I'm learning how to actually create a video game on Unity and to make a virtual reality world. So, it's pretty exciting stuff. I think it's really cool that can work with VR and on VR as, like, a class. I feel like other colleges wouldn't be doing stuff like this. It's innovative. There's a lot of different applications for the future of VR. There's a lot in gaming, obviously, but there's also some subjects like mental health and rehabilitation that VR can contribute to. So, the VARJAM was a month long student competition where the students explored the technologies of virtual and augmented reality. At the showcase, each student put up a presentation and there was industry experts there who came around and they gave the students feedback about their project. And it was just really neat to see these ideas come to life and then to actually watch somebody interact with it. It was really exciting. And I think what's exciting is that VR and AR is here. It might be new to a lot of people, but it's here. And what's next is unknown. So, what is our next exploration, I think that's what I'm excited about. 