 - Another space that I think you're gonna' wanna' watch is Augmented Reality. Augmented Reality has actually been around since the 60s, it really only became popular, God help us, when Pokemon GO came on the scene. Did anyone here play Pokemon GO? Come on. Yeah, for like an hour, right? Yeah, exactly. Pokemon GO was enormous, and this guy can't even catch God-damn Zubat, like honestly, those are the easiest things to catch in the world. Look at this idiot. Aww, it stopped. I could have watched that forever. Zubats, come on, buddy. These things were incredibly popular, the Pokemon GO apps, it was actually, now we're gonna' find out who the real nerds in the audience are, okay, did anyone actually play Ingress? Oh, two people, yay, my people are here. Ingress was the app that Pokemon GO is based on. It was a much better app, and they just recently re-skinned and made Pokemon GO. But this had enormous impact, for those of you who remember, during the 12 minutes Pokemon GO was popular, enormously popular, so much so that I had to put out an emergency email to all of our shopping center clients, with the headline "HOLY CHRIST, WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON?!" Because all of a sudden they were getting swarmed with people playing Pokemon GO. And about two weeks after I sent this out the whole thing died. But the interest in augmented reality has stuck around. And what Pokemon GO did was introduce people to using augmented reality through their phones, and is training a new shopping experience. That spike there that you see, the red line is the previous interest in augmented reality, this is a search for the phrase on Google. This spike is obviously Pokemon GO, but you can see what happened, right? Increased interest because of Pokemon GO. And so, for your customers in the retail sector especially, there is an enormous amount of interest around that, and spending. This is what some marketers think it'll look like. Either through your phone or your glasses it'll light up products that your Facebook friends have recommended, so if they've liked a particular product, it'll light that up for you. It's got a shopping list, it'll ask you, if it's connected to the payment system, right, whether you wanna' use the points in your wallet, or so on. These are actually getting some real-world hybrids that are connecting social to retail. This is one of a handful of gadgets where if you go, and you've liked the brand's page on Facebook, it has a direct connection to this actual, physical box, that will change the number to 8673. And not just for store-wide, but this level of influence is being built through to the product level. These hangers have Facebook Like counts for the individual products. If someone goes on the Facebook page and clicks "I like this jacket.", the hanger will know popularity. So, when, you don't even need to rely on your friends now, what would be a better experience than rely the advice of strangers? Well apparently it can happen now. Some of these attempts will be misguided. This is Lowe's' attempt at it. And this isn't even augmented reality, this is virtual reality, right. So they decided to put these holo-rooms in two of their Toronto stores last year, they're putting them in 19 of their stores down in the U.S. this year. But the problem with this is it's a lot of floor space, it's expensive technology, it requires a Lowe's representative to be there with someone, and the graphics are not very good either, I mean, Pokemon GO has better graphics. So what you'll begin to see, and probably have already begun to see, is this shift away from these big sort of installations, that are more for PR than anything, and more into the buyer's own tablets, the buyer's own phones. In the future your customers, your customers that is, the retailers at least, will be focusing less on bringing people into their stores, and more on bring the store to their customers. This is a great example, a product called Wayfair. It uses augmented reality, right, the difference in augmented and virtual is, virtual, it designs everything for you, augmented is, it shows you something inside your world, so it uses the camera, and it does this, you know, so you can walk around and see it. My favorite example is the sofa, which they're gonna' do in just a moment. They basically point it at the floor where they want the sofa to be, they drag it out onto the floor, and it opens, like a shipping box would. And then you spin it around. And of course one tap and you've bought it. Once someone finds something they like, they're gonna' wanna' find an easy way to pay for it. The Gap has been experimenting with this as well. Alright, in this case, you have to tell it your body size, and then you, basically it's like a catalog. Just like any other catalog inside of the real world, right, you go and you pick what you want it to be, and then you can walk around, and this is done on stage, so, you know, you're kinda' able to see a bit of the guy that's doing it. But he can get right down and turn around and look at the back, and look at the front, and get right up and see the weave pattern if he wants to. And this is not just augmented reality, it's happening already, some of you may know the Sephora app, which I tried last week, much to the confusion of our renovators. Like, why is Tod trying on virtual lipstick? Right? So it's augmented reality again, in fact, this is kinda' a brilliant application for it, It's really the same technology that Snapchat uses for it's stickers, I like that one a lot. Come on, it was pretty, made me look like a pretty girl. And some marketers are using AR as an ad delivery vehicle, not all with great results, you know here is just like hold up the dollar bill in front of you. So, good brand presence, good awareness I suppose, you know, not a lot of conversion going on there. And finally, we should talk about The Internet of Things. 