 Today on Surprise and Play It's an Orboot I have the whole world in my hand Oh, this is so cool! All the different animals like the wolf ... oooo! I learned all about the countries Let the adventure begin! Surprise and Play! Hi everybody I'm Chocolate Chip Are you ready for a surprise? Yeah! Close your eyes Open your eyes Wow! what is it? It's planet earth It's an Orboot from Shifu The Orboot is an augmented reality smart globe for kids and you play with it with your iPad all the countries in the world Yeah we can learn all about the countries we can learn about what kind of animals they have and what kind of foods they eat Does that sound like fun? Yeah! Orboot! Let the adventure begin! Ok, let's open it up! he he he I can't wait! Whoa! Whoa, that's a big planet earth Wow! Wow! That's the base base and that's ... a planet earth Whoa, be gentel very gentle I have to be very gentle whoa! it's so cool I have the whole world in my hands Whoa it's so big I like it Wow! it's so big! argh, I'm in the water ha ha ha Let's open this ok let's see what's in there let's see I can see something wow, what is that? I don't know, let's see Whoa! Oh my gosh that's a stamp! it is a stamp we just put it on our paper it's to stamp your passport when you go to different countries yeah I got a book look, and you can fly your airplane what is that? do you think it's stickers? yeah it is stickers wow, those are stickers of all the different cities we can visit wow, there's some more stickers all the flags of the different countries all the countries in the world yeah it's a doctor what's a doctor? this one? yeah this one No that's a flag of switzerland it looks like a medical alert right? yeah Canada right here yeah that's right Canada is the one with the leaf where's the USA? It's right over here It's a present It's not a present, that's a flag of Sweden I show you it's a present It does look like a present you're right but it's Sweden It's my plane ticket I'm gonna discover all the world and you can put our stamp right here no the stamp doesn't go there I'll show you where the stamp goes ok? In my passport yeah that's your passport I need to put my picture yeah we need to add your picture there yeah I'm gonna put a stamp right here Wow, good job! It's a plane Yeah the stamp is a plane that's cool what is this? it's a book It's an Orbooters guide to expedition ooo I'm gonna use my iPad yes, we're gonna use your iPad to play with the Orboot yeah Let's do it! Yeah!!! Let's do this!!! Woo hoo! The Orboot app is free and only takes a few minutes to install Ok so let's synch it Now we hookup your Orboot with magic Magic? So we've got Animals, Monuments monuments inventions inventions cultures ... cultures maps and climate ... maps and climate Cuisines ... cuisines Natural Wonders ... natural wonders we just have to wait a few minutes for everything to download and we'll be ready to play! yeah Let's pick a really small area on the globe and scan it ensure that the room is well lit and the camera focuses on the icons let's go Whoa this is so cool! uh what? Where am I? Maps where are we mama? Press the flag Canada the land of lakes oh Canada it stands majestic, covered in forests, lakes and snow send a letter to Sanata Claus at HOH OHO ... yey Santa Claus! he he he Animals oh, now we're in South America What do you see in South America? Hello friends I am the vicuna and I am very closely related to my good friend Lama You can visit me in Peru I am the smallest in the Camel family but I live in the wild high up on the Andes mountains I have also been declared as the national symbol of Peru Let's play the light bulb I have choices of where to roam around during the day I prefer to be on plains but during the night time I move to the slopes of the Andes I did not mention this but I am very shy he's very shy yeah just like me just like you when you're shy too? We were hunted a lot for our fine soft wool but now we are safe Drag the food that you think it will love to eat nah nah uh, uh nah nah I simply love it! grass is his favourite food, he doesn't like the other foods, he likes grass yeah yummy yummy and I can make my salad ha ha ha ha just like my salad yeah, just like a salad right? yeah delicious but he doesn't like these two no he only likes the grass Food Pizza Pizza ... a slice of heaven The biggest Pizza in recorded history was baked in 2012 and had a width of one hundred and thirty one feet Inventions Ferris Wheel a wheel that goes up and down will turn your frown upside down much like the circle of life, the ferris wheel is a popular amusement park ride This invention was an engineering genius designed by the American engineer George Ferris for the 1893 Chicago World's Fair Culture Totem Pole Representation of life on a pole Shifu was at his art class and that day they were recreating some totem poles His teacher, Mr. H. explained that totem poles belong to native people of North West coast in Canada and the USA and there are different types Monuments Statue of Liberty leading the way I don't think the lady needs an introduction right? But do you know that the seven rays on her crown represent each of the seven continents The torch represents knowledge and the stone tablet means the law the law? Let's try this one Good day! I'm the Koala I'm not a bear as you might think me to be I'm a marsupiallike the Kangaroo Marsupials are born before time and need the warmth of their mothers Like the wolf ... ooooo no not the wolf, the warmth they need the warmth of their mother oooo he he he I am mostly active in the night and sleep during the day sleep? Koalas sleep during the day my loudest noises are a snore and a belch known as a bellow bellow? a bellow whoa! vroom, vroom I got them all good job! I can see a car and ... Disney Wolrd and a pool you see Disney World? I think that's a Russian castle, I don't think that's Disney world but I guess you're right, there are castles at Disney World right? Yeah there's castles there's some mountains and the castle looks like Disney Wolrd doesn't it? and a clock and pizza pizza? a pizza floaty a floaty it's floating in the water? he he he and a pancake where's the pancake? right there oh you're right I can see Pyramids yeah we see the pyramids just like the shapes what kind of shape is the pyramid? Triangle what else do you see over here? I can see a panda right there you're right and there's the ocean I can see a sea horse oh you can see a sea horse in the ocean what do we see in North America? I see a pumpkin, chicken and popcorn Maple syrup Maple syrup that's right I like maple syrup the Statue of Liberty and Niagara Falls and the CN Tower in Toronto Thank you to Play Shifu for sending us the Orboot Look at all the places we visited wow I learned all about the countries We saw all the different animals I learned about animals and all of them and then I feed them We're gonna use this for homeschool bye thanks for watching click subscribe thumbs up i heart you subscribe see you next time and we're gonna have fun Surprise and Play! awe, he's so cute kiss 