 Hi guys my name is Pooja. I'm a scientist here at the Crick and I study ancient infectious diseases. A few days ago you sent me some of your questions so here are my answers. The first question I got was "What made me want to be a scientist?" When I was in school I really really liked science, especially biology and chemistry. I remembered asking lots and lots of questions and I remember being told there's no such thing as a silly question. Somebody asked me what my previous degree was I remember I really liked science but not sure exactly what i wanted to do. So I decided to do a degree called archaeology anthropology which is a really long word to say the study of human beings and forensic sciences. After this degree I knew I wanted to stay in science so I decided to do a degree in infectious diseases. Somebody asked us what kind of skeletons do we work with. Well I work with teeth. That's because they have a great blood supply. Bugs and bacteria and viruses that can get into your blood would then be able to get into the teeth. So they kind of act like a time capsule for us. Somebody sent in a question asking where our skeletons come from. Well most of our skeletons come from archaeologists who found them during excavations. Archaeologists and anthropologists can ask questions like whether the skeleton was male or female or how old they were or even if they had any diseases just by looking at the bones. They then send them to us to see if we can find out any more information from their DNA.  Somebody asked me why is it important to care about ancient diseases. Well it's important to look at how diseases have evolved. Studying ancient infectious diseases can kind of show us a snapshot in time, kind of like a photograph and show us how it moved around the world before planes and trains. I was asked what is the end goal of our research. Well it's really important to learn from the past. So that's exactly what we're doing. Human DNA changes and sometimes these changes can be really beneficial to us and they can help us adapt to new environments. Well infectious diseases often go through the same changes and they too adapt to different environments. Do I have any advice for a 10 year old wanting to be a scientist? Well it's mostly important to stay curious and ask lots and lots of questions. Like I said before there's no such thing as a silly question. I was asked how I stayed motivated during a pandemic. Well I'm very lucky that I really really like my job but even ancient diseases can get a bit tiring. So I remembered to change up what I did every few days. I was also very lucky that I had Toby my dog who continuously reminded me to take breaks just to play with him. I was asked "Do lots of scientists work with bones?" The answer is: it depends on what field you go into. If you study things like anatomy which is the structure of living organisms you may get the opportunity to work with bones. I was asked what my favourite part of my job is. My favourite part often comes months after I drill into a human tooth. It's when I get a file on my computer containing all the data then I get to go into the data and look for the infectious diseases. I get so excited about this part and I often tell my lab as soon as I find anything. And finally we got this great question asking why a bone someone has dug up in the garden hasn't turned into mud and completely decomposed. That is an absolutely fantastic question and we even have our own expert in the lab looking at the preservation of bones. Two big things that contribute to a bone staying intact for a long time is the pH of the soil and the temperature. If the soil is too acidic the bone tends to decompose. The same goes for if it's a really really warm climate. Thank you all for such great questions and i hope you enjoyed this video. 