 - I am Matt Eastwood. (mid-tempo music) - And I'm James Lowey. And this is Cloud Talks. - I first joined IDC 20 years go. IDC's a leading research and advisory firm looking at technology adoption globally. And I manage a team of about 60 analysts, and we study enterprise infrastructure adoption, we have good cloud, we look at developer activities, as well as partnering. - I'm the CIO at TGen, short for the Translational Genomics Research Institute, based here, in Phoenix, Arizona. I've been with TGen for a little over 17 years. TGen is a non-profit biomedical research institute that was formed in 2002. We've been working to take that information that's in our DNA, and use that to find better treatments for patients. So we're very much driven by science, but by also outcomes and helping people. I'm responsible for all things IT within the institute. - If we think about the fact that TGen is dealing with extremely sensitive data, and also is in a position of doing a lot of research that's really life-critical, I'm wondering how you think about it, and how you're thinking about privacy, and security, and just risk overall. - You know, we always have felt protecting the data of the folks that we're working with, whether they be patients or data from collaborators, is of the utmost importance. We have somebody's DNA, I mean that's, I would argue that's probably one of the most personally identifiable pieces of information that we have. So, we feel that building systems within the frameworks of the hybrid infrastructure, security has to be built-in from the ground up. It's not something you're gonna bolt on later. One of the things that we have been working on is what I would, a hybrid cloud type technology that really enables us to have these Cloud-native workflows, and be able to run them on internal resources as well as public clouds, as well as semi-private or semi-public clouds. - And today, about 92% of customers have a mix of both public and private cloud environments running in their overall IT environment. And enterprises are increasingly leveraging a hybrid cloud model. In fact, we see Cloud not as a destination, but as an operating model for this increasingly distributed digital infrastructure that's gonna power the business forward. - I've spent a lot of time thinking about these hybrid, what I call decomposed infrastructures, where we have particular processors, or different computational technologies, that we apply at specific points in the pipeline in order to really facilitate the optimal throughput of these systems. So we can do it for the least amount of costs and as quickly as possible, because speed is always a huge thing. We have to go fast, 'cause they way I look at it, is if it was my child waiting for an answer from a diagnostic test, or from insight being extracted, I wouldn't wanna wait. - You know, many folks look at the Cloud, and they see a one-way trip to a public cloud. But we don't, we don't see it that way. We see it quite differently, we see a continuum of absent data that stretches from edge to core. And we also see an increasing set of interdependencies, we've talked a little bit about that, that are influencing where these applications land. - Yeah, and I think that's spot on, Matt, in that my experience definitely echoes that. Where there was a huge rush for people to adopt the public cloud, so everybody kinda went out and did this without fully realizing the implications around some of those decisions. So now you're starting to see people, I believe be more thoughtful in their application of the Cloud. And applications definitely are evolving to become much more transportable, and much more Cloud-native, if you will. And I think that developers want to run their apps anywhere. It's truly an exciting time to be a CIO. I'll tell you, I have a lot of fun doing this stuff, (light energetic music) And the technology is really helping us get to a point that I think is gonna be really outstanding. (light energetic music) 