 I recently saw a video from YouTuber Meet Kevin  discussing what he called “the collapse of   index funds”. I’ll link it below so you can  check it out, but this really struck a chord   with me as someone who has been investing  pretty heavily in index funds so far. To summarize the arguments he presented, the idea  is that index funds put too much money in the   wrong places, and end up underweighted in today’s  most important stock market holdings. Similarly,   he referenced Cathie Wood from Ark Invest who  believes that we’re entering a new era, where   money is going to start flowing out of traditional  and “old” companies, and into companies that   are disruptive innovators, specifically  in the area of science and technology. I think there is some truth to both of these  ideas, especially the idea that disruptive tech   companies will be some of the best stock market  investments we can make in the coming years.   So, in order to bring my total market  index fund holdings down a little bit,   and shift some weight into these types of  companies, I want to analyze two popular ETFs. In this video, we are going to compare  the ARK innovation ETF, ticker ARKK,   and Invesco’s QQQ ETF. First, we’re going to look  at how each fund is managed.   This is going to include a look at the  methodology or strategy behind each fund,   to figure out how they’re choosing  the underlying investments. Then, we’ll take a look at  the current holdings of each   fund so we can get a read on the amount of  diversification we’re getting with each one. Next, we’re going to take a look at  numbers like price, valuation metrics,   costs and more to figure out if either of these  funds are a good buy today or in the future. Finally, I’ll tell you how I’m  going to be investing in these funds   and how they fit into my overall portfolio. So if you’re thinking about investing  in one or both of these funds,   stick around for everything you need to know. Both ARK and the triple Q are designed to focus on  companies that are at the forefront of innovation.   But, the way each one does  it is a little different. The primary difference here is that  ARKK is an actively managed fund,   while triple Q is a passively managed  index fund that invests in the NASDAQ   100. So let’s take a closer look at what’s  going on behind the scenes of each of them. The ARKK ETF is managed by the ARK Invest team,  which is famously led by CEO Catherine Wood.   According to their website, their investment  strategies “span market capitalizations,   sectors and geographies” to focus on  companies that they expect to be “the leaders,   enablers and beneficiaries of disruptive  innovation.” So these guys are betting   on companies that they expect to drive  and benefit from innovation the most,   specifically mentioning the areas of  DNA technology, industrial innovation,   the next generation internet and  financial technologies or “fintech”. Ark Invest believes that we are currently amidst   the largest technological  transformation in history,   which means potentially incredible opportunities  financially. This chart from their website shows   groundbreaking innovations that have developed  over time and ultimately shaped our world.   They point to huge opportunities thanks to five  innovative platforms that are evolving rapidly   today: energy storage, artificial intelligence,  robotics, genome sequencing and blockchain. In order to meet their definition of innovation,   they think a company’s technology  must meet three criteria. First, it must deliver extreme cost cuts  or performance improvements. Although some   technologies advance slowly, ARK points to  something called Wright’s Law to explain the   potential benefits of a breakthrough technology.  At a certain point, cost and performance reaches a   threshold where it suddenly becomes widely more  available and transformative on a large scale.   So, they seek companies with the potential to  deliver on the other side of that threshold. Second, the technology should be able to  transform multiple industries. Identifying   these technologies ahead of time can enable you to  benefit from the point where the technology breaks   through into different industries and gets rapidly  implemented into different sectors. The example   they give is electricity, which within 30 years  penetrated almost every sector of manufacturing. And last, the technology must also provide  a platform for further innovation. They want   to find technologies that can endlessly be  built upon, spawning even more products,   technologies and innovations. The example they  give here is how new battery technologies have   paved the way for other technologies  like drones and electric vehicles. So now we know the beliefs and ideas that drive  their investment decisions and philosophy.   And when it comes to selecting specific stocks  for their portfolio, this is what they say:  Instead of starting with a benchmark, they begin  with a pool of potential investments that they   evaluate and quantify based on their opportunity  for growth. Then they build out a five year model   to estimate the potential value of a company  based on a handful of characteristics. After   all of this, CEO Cathie Wood has the final  say on which stocks end up in the portfolio. After adding stocks to their portfolio, they’ll  add or trim their positions to take advantage of   short-term negative price movement, to move assets  to a holding they’re more confident in or if they   spot an investment with great market opportunity.  They also say they’ll sell a holding if it no   longer appears to be leading innovation or if  their research no longer supports it. These are   all pretty standard claims, and basically they’re  just going to move in and out of stocks when   they feel the time is right and there is a good  opportunity. Of course, this is the primary risk   of actively managed funds. They’ll use strategies  that attempt to time the market which often   involve short-term trades, resulting in higher  costs and the risk of mis-timing an investment. This is in direct contrast with QQQ, which  follows a passively managed strategy by investing   in the NASDAQ 100 index. This index simply  includes the 100 largest stocks by market cap   on the NASDAQ index, but excludes any financial  companies. So instead of cherry picking stocks,   triple Q just invests into the NASDAQ 100  index based on their market cap weighting   of stocks. And this means to understand triple Q,  we need to understand how the Nasdaq index works. The NASDAQ is the second largest stock exchange  in the world, behind only the New York Stock   Exchange. The NASDAQ came about in the 70s and  separated itself from the New York stock exchange   because it was the first electronic stock  exchange in the world. As a more innovative   exchange platform, it attracted a lot of  newer and smaller technology-based companies.   So from the very beginning, the Nasdaq  offered a selection of stocks that was   more saturated in the technology industry, and  this is a trend that continues to this day. So when you look at the top 100 listings of  the NASDAQ index, which make up the NASDAQ 100,   this is why it looks different from something  like the S&P500 which selects stocks from both the   NASDAQ and New york stock exchanges. Ultimately,  the NASDAQ 100 and the triple Q ETF aren’t using   any strategy to identify innovative companies -  but, because of the historic bias of the NASDAQ   platform, the largest 100 companies on the NASDAQ  index just tend to lean more towards technology   and will inevitably include some of the most  successfully innovative companies out there. So when you compare the strategy of ARKK and  triple Q, there are some pretty clear differences. ARKK is going to select from a wider pool of  investments, and strategically select the stocks   that they anticipate will have the biggest growth  opportunities. This will include exposure to   small and medium cap stocks, while the nasdaq 100  will be composed of the largest possible stocks.   So with ARKK you’re going to get a more  targeted approach that aims to capitalize on   growth opportunities, albeit with the risk of  active management. However, active management   also gives ARKK the ability to add new holdings at  any time, while triple Q will only be able to add   new holdings on an annual basis. Furthermore,  QQQ will give you a broader investment into   the largest companies on the NASDAQ index,  but by focusing on the 100 largest stocks,   it may be overweight in some of the companies  that have already achieved much of their growth.   I think this could suggest less growth  potential, but a smoother ride along the way. So let’s take a closer look at their holdings.  ARKK aims to hold between 35 and 55 holdings at   any given time, which is going to be less  than the 100 stocks that triple Q holds. Here you can see ARKK’s top 10 holdings,  which make up about 50% of the portfolio.   It’s heaviest in healthcare technology,  which makes up 35% of the portfolio   and focuses on things like molecular diagnostics,  gene therapy and other DNA technologies.   Close behind is a 28% weight  in information technology,   which will include things like cloud  computing, big data and the internet of things. Here you can see their weight  by market capitalization,   which shows that half the portfolio  is allocated into large cap stocks,   giving some pretty decent exposure  to smaller-sized companies. So I think these holdings provide some clear  insight into the core technologies and strategies   that ARKK believes in, and they definitely  align with the information we looked at earlier. On the other hand, as we know, triple Q holds 100  stocks. 100% of this portfolio will be in large   cap stocks. Currently, the top 10 holdings  of QQQ make up about 55% of the portfolio,   which makes it a little more top-heavy than ARKK.  You can also see that it’s pretty heavily weighted   in its top 3 holdings alone, with 35% of the  portfolio made up of Apple, Amazon and Microsoft. The sector allocation is also pretty  different from ARKK. With triple Q,   almost 50% is allocated to information technology,  and it holds way less in the healthcare industry   compared to ARKK. Communication services and  consumer discretionary is fairly comparable. Directly comparing the two, although triple  Q appears to offer better diversification   with nearly twice as many holdings, it’s  pretty heavily weighted into a select   few of them. I think ARKK will provide better  diversification across different market sectors,   and like we touched on earlier, it has the  added benefit of selecting from a wider   pool of stocks that will include smaller  market caps and greater growth potential. But let’s take a look at the numbers behind  each of these ETFs, starting with ARKK.   ARKK charges an expense ratio of .75%,   which is definitely high compared to passively  managed funds, but it’s actually pretty   competitive for an actively managed fund.  It does not pay a regular dividend, which is   pretty much to be expected for a portfolio that is  entirely focused on disruption and rapid growth. The returns from ARKK have  been absolutely incredible,   with 30% annualized returns since  its inception in 2014. Of course,   the majority of this has occurred in 2020,  during which time it’s grown over 80% so far.   However, with a recent PE ratio of around negative  40, the ark innovation ETF is looking pretty   overvalued and is also holding a basket of stocks  that when combined together are not profitable. Triple Q has an expense ratio of .2%,   which is substantially less than ARKK but still  pretty high for an index fund. It offers an   annual dividend yield of about .6%, which isn’t  anything substantial, but it is more than ARKK. The returns of QQQ haven’t been quite as  impressive as ARKK, but they are still significant   at 20% annualized over the last 10 years, and 30%  this year. The P/E ratio of the QQQ portfolio is   approximately 47.5 as of their latest quarterly  report, compared to the S&P500’s P/E ratio of   about 36 at the time of making this video. This  suggests that triple Q is indeed overvalued,   especially considering people already think that  the broad market is overvalued at current prices. So when it comes down to it, are these  funds a good investment? Well since   I started this video with a comparison to  total market index funds, let’s start there. I think compared to total market index  funds, both of these funds are better   weighted into companies that could provide  superior returns in the short-term future,   especially at a time where financial experts are  predicting a lost decade of stock market returns.   And this is because they both feature  innovative technology companies,   which are looking to be a  safe bet in the coming years. But, each fund does this in different ways.  Triple Q uses a pure indexing approach,   which I think leaves it too heavily weighted  in companies like Apple, Amazon and Microsoft,   and probably means it has a handful of holdings  that aren’t fully contributing to the theme   of innovation. Furthermore, this eliminates the  possibility of holding any smaller cap companies. ARKK uses research and various  principles to select its holdings,   and while I’ve wanted to avoid actively  managed funds because of their inherent risks,   I really appreciate the transparency that Ark  Invest has shown so far. On their website,   they have a research center where you can  read up on the latest news and information   they’re using to drive their investments. You can  also sign up for email notifications, and they’ll   send you daily alerts to let you know exactly what  they’re buying and selling within each of their   funds. But at the end of the day, all investments  require the approval of CEO Cathie Wood. So if   you’re investing in ARKK, you’re investing in her.  She’s obviously done well so far, but as with any   investment, it’s impossible to draw conclusions  on future returns based on previous performance. Both funds appear to be pretty overvalued.  While triple Q has a greater PE ratio,   it’s worth noting that ARKKs PE ratio  is negative which shows they are making   riskier investments on companies  that aren’t fully profitable yet. Ultimately I think to invest in either  of these funds, you have to believe that   innovation is going to be the driving  force in the market moving forward.   If you hold that belief, you should  feel confident that both of these funds   will continue to outperform total market index  funds. If you’re looking for the safer investment,   I think triple Q fits the bill. It’s weighted  towards the large cap technology-based companies   that have been carrying the market in recent  years, which means it’ll probably be a more stable   investment as these companies have already  established their position in the markets. If you’re looking for maximum growth potential,  ARKK seems well-designed to deliver on that. With   transparent, extensive research strategies and  strong arguments behind their views on innovation,   I think it’s possible that ARKK will hold some of  the market’s best investments in the coming years.   But, with active management,  a smaller portfolio size and   the inclusion of small market cap  companies, it could be a bumpy ride. Personally, I’m going to add a small position  in both of these funds to my portfolio.   I’m going to use triple Q to slightly tilt my  total market holdings towards the technology   based companies that have outperformed the  market lately and may continue to do so. I’m going to add a slightly larger  position in ARKK, because I really   enjoy their commitment to research and  their transparency in their operation.   I’m not thrilled with the .75% management fee, but  it is lower than other mutual funds on the market,   and if they continue to deliver returns that  are anything like the ones we’ve seen so far,   the investment should cover  those fees many times over. To be fully transparent, QQQ is going to make  up 5% of my portfolio, with ARKK comprising 10%   of my portfolio. My total market index fund  allocation used to be 60% of my portfolio,   and now I am reducing it to 45% to  make room for these new holdings. Overall my decision to invest here is based on  my belief that the future of the markets and   our world is going to be very different thanks  to the technologies that are developing today.   Although index funds have worked in the past,  I want to prepare my portfolio for the coming   technological breakthroughs that are likely  going to overshadow the returns of the total   market. By adding QQQ and ARKK, I’m confident  that I’ll be able to capture greater returns   than just by holding total  market index funds alone. So what’s your plan? Let me know in the  comments if you plan on adding either of   these funds to your portfolio, or if you’re  stock picking to create your own portfolio   of innovative stocks. And if you enjoyed this  ETF breakdown, make sure to subscribe to the   channel for more videos like it. Happy  investing and I’ll see you next time! 