 How do you make a human? I mean, after the fertilization part. How does your body know exactly where to put each finger and how to orient the heart? That’s where our genetic instructions, or DNA comes in. But to understand DNA, we need to talk about creme brulee. I have no idea how to make one of these tasty morsels, so I check out a recipe site, scroll through a bunch of ads and boring stories, and I’ll get an ingredients list and instructions. Now, imagine instead of doing this with the big letters and words in an online recipe list, you’re doing the same thing at the tiny, molecular level. You have cellular machinery that reads the instructions, and machinery that copies it, and separate pieces that assemble the ingredients into bigger pieces. The list of ingredients in the recipe that makes our bodies is called DNA. Today we’re talking about the genetic instructions for your body, the cookbook that makes the ingredients that make up you. We’ll talk about the structure of DNA and how you go from gene to those beautiful brown eyes of yours. So you’re not a delicious dessert, sadly. The ingredients that go into you are a little more complicated. Remember back to episode one when we talk about biological hierarchy — your body is a collection of organ systems, which are collections of organs, which are made of tissues, which are made of cells. That whole thing? Well those cells are made of nonliving things like water, lipids, and proteins. And our cells make proteins to do different jobs around the body.  These proteins aren’t alive, they’re complex bundles of amino acids that serve different purposes. And they’re not just for building muscles. The pigment that makes your eye color is a protein. The keratin that builds your hair is a protein. But you also need to build proteins for a normal physiology, so you have instructions for proteins like antibodies and enzymes in your genes as well. We have about twenty to twenty five thousand genes, or recipes, in our cookbook. Genes are the genetic instructions that tell your cell to make a specific protein. So your genes don’t tell your body to make brown eyes, they tell it to make a specific protein, which collectively look like brown eyes at the large scale. It's like you inherited this cookbook from your parents. Or rather, a copy of your mom’s cookbook, and a copy of your dad’s cookbook. The vast majority of recipes were the same, but a few might be slightly different. Let’s say on page five hundred thirty two in the cookbooks, there’s a section for some kind of crunchy tortilla based food. In your dad’s cookbook is a recipe for tacos, in your mom’s cookbook is tostadas. You’ll end up making one of those recipes. These are alleles, variations in the same gene. In your body, this might be an allele for freckles from your dad but an allele for no freckles from your mom. Two versions of the same gene, but your body either has freckles or it doesn't. Both fulfill the same role but end up with slightly different results. Each of those recipes has to be written in a language that the reader can understand, and in this case, the recipe is written in DNA. DNA stands for Deoxyribonucleic Acid, it’s this long molecule with the classic double helix shape. And DNA is made from smaller molecules called nucleotides, which have a few important pieces. Its backbone is made up of a sugar called deoxyribose, the D in DNA, and a phosphate. Together, these give the DNA molecule some structure. Between these backbones are four nitrogen bases — adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine, or A, T, C, and G which are held together with weak hydrogen bonds. Because of their complementary shape, A will always hook up to T, and C will always hook up with G. So if you know what one side of the DNA strand looks like, you can tell what the other side will look like too. ACA on one side will be met with TGT on the other. We call these A-T and C-G pairs base pairs. As a result of DNA’s structure, these opposing strands of nucleotides have specific directions. And just like how we need to know if the language in our recipe should be read left to right or right to left, our cellular machinery needs to know the direction of DNA too. To tell which part is the front and which is the back, we need to look at the sugars in the DNA backbone.  One end is called the five prime while the other is called three prime. If you were to dissect one of the sugar-phosphate backbones, you’d see the carbons atoms in the sugar molecule arranged in a certain pattern. Biologists assign them a number, so this one is one prime, this is two prime, all the way to five prime. To determine DNA’s direction, you have to look at which end is leading the sequence. One end will have the five prime sticking out, and the other will have the three prime. DNA is usually written starting with five prime and ending with three prime. So you could have a sequence that goes 5 prime TTAGGG 3 prime. Bonus points if anybody can tell me what that sequence refers to in the comments. Example aside, all the base pairs in your DNA make up a code. They’re the genes that tell your body what proteins to make. Some genes are short , but one gene, the gene that codes for a protein called dystrophin, is over two million base pairs long. But how do our cells read DNA and make proteins? First, I want to show you what’s actually making the protein. It’s this little guy called a ribosome. In our cookbook example, the ribosome is the chef who actually puts the recipe together. It takes amino acids and assembles them into bigger proteins. Here’s the thing — ribosomes read RNA, not DNA. So DNA goes through a process called transcription where it’s rewritten as RNA or ribonucleic acid. It’s chemically similar to DNA but instead of deoxyribose sugar, it’s made of ribose. Also, instead of the Thymine, or T base, it has Uracil. But structurally they’re quite different. DNA has double strands, RNA has single strands and can be tweaked into different shapes. Transcription starts when enzymes called RNA polymerase move along the DNA strand from five prime to three prime, unwinding the DNA into two pieces. Now, remember how each base pair can only pair with one other specific base? A with T and C with G? That comes in handy again. We can use these newly unwound strands as templates to create new RNA. So if you know what one side is, you know the other side will be a sequence of opposite basepairs. These new RNA strands are made in little sections at a time. So while we might have DNA strands that are hundreds of millions of base pairs long, most RNAs top out at a few thousand base pairs. Some of these RNA are the end product and are useful in the cell but others, called messenger RNA, or mRNA, go onto the next step to code for specific proteins. These things are going to take the message from the DNA in the nucleus out to the cytoplasm. At this point we have mRNA that’s been transcribed from DNA. This new structure is ready to be fed into those ribosomes in a process called translation to generate some proteins. For those wondering, the whole ribonucleic acid and ribosome thing isn’t a coincidence. Again, these ribosomes are the chefs in our cookbook analogy — they’re where our cells actually make the proteins, and we have millions of them per cell. When an mRNA enters a ribosome, the ribosome reads the mRNA three letters, or bases, at a time. Each of those three letter combinations, or codons, codes for a new amino acid. Some amino acids like tryptophan can only be coded by one combination of bases, in this case, UGG. But some amino acids can be coded by multiple combinations. Like tyrosine can be coded by a sequence of UAC or UAU. This process of translation and protein building repeats, grabbing new amino acids to throw on the growing protein. It continues until the ribosome reads a codon that tells it to stop. Then translation is over. Our cells made the protein and it’s off to wherever it’s supposed to go. What I find so interesting is how universal this genetic code is. That code of amino acids coded by codons is used by almost a hundred percent of life. It doesn’t matter if it’s in our bodies, your cat, or an E Coli bacteria. The same three letter codes tell ribosomes to make the same amino acids. This genetic code was discovered back in the mid 1900s and we still don’t have an answer for why it’s so common or how it came to be. Genetics is one of the coolest studies in biology and is obviously much bigger than one video can contain. Next time, we’ll dive into how DNA makes copies of itself so efficiently, and where that fits in with the growth and copying of cells themselves. Thanks for watching this episode of Seeker Human, I’m Patrick Kelly. 