 [MUSIC PLAYING] JANET BUSH: My name is Janet Bush. I'm a senior editor with the McKinsey Global Institute, which is the economics and business research arm of McKinsey and Company. So we're going to spend today walking you through some of the key findings of our new research on the Bio Revolution. And with us today, we have two of the lead authors-- Michael Chui, who's based in San Francisco and is a partner with MGI and Matthias Evers, who's in Hamburg and is a senior partner with the firm in charge of R&D in the pharmaceutical medical production-- products practice. Matthias, can I hand over to you to start walking our guests through the findings? Why did we look at this research in the first place? MATTHIAS EVERS: Yeah, thank you, Janet. Let me first actually start by saying that I feel humbled with this audience here today. It's really an honor to introduce our findings to you. But, I mean, we got interested roughly one year ago about progress of biology more broadly, so it's really [INAUDIBLE] maybe starting why did we actually get interested, because in Hamburg it was [INAUDIBLE].. It really happened in the year 2000, because there was a moment when the draft of human genome was presented coming out of [INAUDIBLE] the $5 billion project. And why not there? Why now? So we looked at the environment and for us we see significant progress in our understanding of biology. So these are advances that make bioengineering very real. One example that you see here depicted are the CRISPR Cas9 genome editing technology. It's also groundbreaking because it allows us very specifically to edit the human genome. This was, of course, researched a bit earlier, but later in 2013 was a groundbreaking publication. It was understood the power of CRISPR Cas9 in genome editing. That's, of course, way more on the biology side. One example are the CAR T cell therapies, where you can actually weaponize and program your own T cells. The Human Cell Atlas Project where some people describe it as the Google Maps of actually the human body. Now that's one side of the coin. If you look at another side, think about the innovation factor of innovation force that allows [AUDIO OUT]. We see a lot of progress on computing, data handling, AI, and automation that makes now a big difference in the progress of biology. So Micah, my colleague, was later thinking about sequencing. I just give you my own example, which some might fear is very boring. I want to focus for a second on data storage. As the human genome, we speak about 2.9 billion base pairs, and it's rough cut 725 megabytes. Let's say one gigabyte with some additional storage, et cetera. One gigabyte in 2000, the time I was in bioinformatics in the lab, costed you something like $17. Doesn't sound so expensive. But if you now buy this for $0.004 in the cloud, we speak about an innovation factor of more than 4,000. So that's an innovation force that allows actually biomedical progress. Another one is that automation, how it's driving, for instance-- I mean, how to utilize pluripotent stem cells, IPSCs, that many of you will know at scale in labs and allowing much faster [INAUDIBLE].. If I move to the next slide, our thesis for this research was that there's a confluence of these forces. So basically better understanding of biology, progress in biologic technologies, but also computation, data handling, AI, and automation. So our research question was really is this confluence so strong that biology becomes an innovation force not dissimilar to digital? As you can hear from our excitement and you have seen the report, of course, already, we started this research. We believe that the revolution-- part of the revolution is around us. And we answer a few questions here. Number one, is this only in pharma [INAUDIBLE] or is this cutting across industries? How broad is it? How deep does it go? So that's really what we want to present to you today. Any quick-- well, I mean, Jan-- my colleague, Janet, said already, it's a special time. We, of course, live in COVID beds, and this work started a year ago. It was not on the horizon at all. We just hear it's too broad to talk about it because this environment shows the big upside of biology. And we see the [INAUDIBLE] to find the therapeutic-- or find the therapeutic against COVID that shows the power of the methodologies, the upside. And, actually, that's [INAUDIBLE] innovation in biology, but it, of course, also shows the stress. Now because this isn't actually a recurring virus, but what's a broad experiment in some garage somewhere as the risk of it. MICHAEAL CHUI: And, Matthias, as you were saying that this-- the COVID-19 crisis, and in some cases a tragedy, really has reminded us of the power of biology, not only in health, but across the entire economy. In that case, negative, but I think what our report shows is there are tremendous positives as well. When we looked at the research though, one of the things we really had to do is define the problem. What is the scope of things that we wanted to look at? And we found basically four arenas that we thought were important for us to dig into. One is around biomolecules. And if you think about DNA, RNA, things at the molecular level, whether it's sequencing, or CRISPR Cas9 as Matthias was talking about, real advances are happening there. And so one example is gene therapies for monogenic diseases. Again, we looked at many, many different potential use cases. Secondly, if you level up to biosystems, this is when you get to the cellular level or even higher than cellular level, entire organisms. And in this case, we also see lots of things-- lots of innovations happening. We'll come back to this later, but this idea of cultured meat-- the idea that you could actually grilled meat in a laboratory. Third domain is biomachine interfaces. Now we're increasingly finding the ability to connect very much more directly. The old realm of IT-- not that old, but older realm of IT with biology and so whether or not there's this neuroprosthetic interfaces-- other ways to connect the brain more directly to computers. And finally, the potential for using biology as a computational substrate either for computation or particularly for storage, which we think is more likely to happen earlier. So those are just sort of look at things at a top level. [INAUDIBLE] that we looked at. Let me just quickly, if we go to next slide, describe just a quick preview of the things we'll talk about here. And, again, we invite your questions as Janet said through the Q&A. Firstly, what we understood and through our research established that, in fact, the pace of the technical innovations really is accelerating. We really think we're reaching an inflection point, not only in the science and engineering, but the pace at which things get from laboratory to market, so that's why we really think that we're really at a point-- nucleic acids and enter this in a way perhaps that they hadn't. But that, it was actually done ahead a lot of time. They had the entire economy. Secondly, these technical, and scientific, and engineering innovations really create new fundamental capabilities for companies for organizations, and that changes the game in terms of the way that their businesses will run, the way that supply chains will be constructed, the way that competition will occur. Thirdly, the incredible breadth which we think these scientific-- it's about health care or agriculture. We really do believe that these innovations will span across the [INAUDIBLE] called squalene, which-- the entire economy. We actually took what we describe at MGI as a micro to macro approach. We didn't just sort of look at things at a top level. We, in fact, look at [INAUDIBLE] possible to actually create cases of the potential for a bio revolution, and we know that's not exhaustive either. But it's a pretty large number, and we have some interesting findings from that depth of research. There are unique risks. And Matthias made reference to it. We'll cover some of those as well. Some of them are echoes of previous risks we've seen in digital. Some of them are quite unique to this domain. And then finally, there-- these things actually don't happen overnight. I think a lot of these innovations we might have heard of. They might have shown up in a publication or other. What we try-- there are a number of places-- seriously what it takes to get from lab into the marketplace. And so we're going to describe-- in some cases to increase-- to the next page. You just want to illustrate-- R&D-- the first point, which is that the pace at which some of these technologies are developing-- let's take gene sequencing, for instance, the ability to decode the list of nucleic acids in DNA and RNA, for instance. Leave it to you to moderate. Since the Human Genome Project, it took 13 years. It was actually done ahead of allotted time. They had budgeted 15 years, and it took about $2.7 billion or $3 billion. Now it's under $1,000. And within not a long time-- that generates huge amounts of data-- sequence-- a full sequence of the human genome. And my background is in IT, and-- out there. Many of you might have heard of those before, things that Moore's law has allowed us to do. This is the fact that for the same dollar amount, you can buy twice as much-- which is exploding at-- well, 18 months or so. What we're finding is technologies like sequencing are actually advancing faster than Moore's law, and a part of that is underwritten by these achievements in IT. But then if you think about all the things happened in IT because of Moore's law and you think about a set of technologies, which are advancing faster, do we think that potentially these underlying technical-- JANET BUSH: Well, yes, I like this one because-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Disruptive change-- we actually do. And so if you-- we go to the next page. Well, as new fundamental capabilities, which we think these scientific advancements and innovations can unlock-- first, creating new ways of producing, producing materials, for instance. There's an example that we talked about in the report, and in one of our videos actually, there's a cosmetic ingredient called squalene, which the traditional method of production was harvesting in deep sea sharks. MATTHIAS EVERS: And you can call it and claim [? that ?] the buyer-- MICHAEAL CHUI: That's both not very economic as well as not great for the environment. Now by modifying the gene-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Thought because [INAUDIBLE] MICHAEAL CHUI: --mutation that it's possible to actually create both more reliably as well or as more economically and a higher quality a very similar kind of product. And so, again, you see changes in the potential of our ability to produce things. Secondly, our ability to target actions to be-- people have heard about the term precision medicine or precision agriculture. Again, you can think about the fact that now we can treat a cancer based on the specific tumor within a patient. Again, that's changing the way that we think about medicine, and these carry over in other places as well. And we also have the ability to reprogram organisms. If you think about the genetic code as being like a computer code and now that we can use techniques like CRISPR Cas9 to reprogram those organisms, we can actually change the way that they operate in the world. Let's take for example-- again, there are risks associated with it, but the idea of using a technique called gene drives in order to modify mosquitoes and reduce the incidence of malaria. Now a potential that's out there as well so reprogramming life. Fourthly, higher R&D productivity-- there are a number of-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Types of R&D-- MICHAEAL CHUI: [INAUDIBLE] in some cases that the growth in productivity has certainly slowed in many parts of the economy. And what we see is this convergence of artificial intelligence, automation, and biology, in some cases, to increase the throughput of biological, particularly, R&D by many times. And I think we'll come back to that moment. And then finally, we talked a lot about these are two realms-- IT and biology, which are increasingly coming together, both in terms of the techniques but literally together. For example, those neural machine interfaces that I talked about. MATTHIAS EVERS: Have an impact on our surroundings. MICHAEAL CHUI: Let's go to the next slide. Would love to open it up for questions. Hopefully, we've received some through the chat, but, Janet, I'll leave it to you. Before, we looked at hundreds of-- JANET BUSH: Yes, the questions have started to come in. Thank you so much to everybody. I guess the first one-- maybe Michael with your background in IT, this one's for you. But what is the role of AI in this biological revolution? MICHAEAL CHUI: Seizures, thalassemia, cyclic diseases that are the result of [INAUDIBLE],, but I grew up in a medical-- patient can be cured for their entire life-- coming together, and so I-- one of the few-- sum all those up-- technologies in biology have created these huge amounts of data. We get providers, and pharmaceuticals as well as medical services, and that generates huge amounts of data. Now if you think about having the genome of many, many different people, and then trying to associate that with their electronic medical health records, and then trying to extract from their interesting findings-- and people talk about genome wide association studies, right? That's a technique that's out there. Many of you might have heard of those before to even increase the nutritional value without all of the innovations that we have in data. And if you think about artificial intelligence as a way of extracting useful insights and patterns from data, that's precisely the types of techniques which can be used to actually make good use of all of this biological data, which is exploding at exponential rates. MATTHIAS EVERS: But, Michael, let me add to that because this is a fundamental question, I think, also underpinning our entire research. So, obviously, it's amount of data, but here's something more. I mean, so humanity almost and science has taken a reductionist approach, and take something close to my heart, which is more in the pharmaceutical heath care space. So there's a disease, and then we believe there's this one essay that tells us about this disease. And then there's this one molecule that makes that difference in this one disease so very reductionist. Biology is everything else but reductionist. Biology is complex, multi-modal, and it's actually beyond the humans to understand the complexity of all the factors. So the approach of AI is actually only [INAUDIBLE] to handle and to understand biology, and we are perhaps at the beginning to really deploy that, to really learn from it. But that's why the confluence is so powerful as we describe it, but let me maybe not drag on. And, Janet, maybe we have another question here. MICHAEAL CHUI: The facts of each of these upstream effects. JANET BUSH: I don't know what the answer is going to be, so I'll ask it to both of you. What surprised you the most about this research? Michael first. MICHAEAL CHUI: Well, I think one thing that's always surprising is, whether or not you thought it before, actually having it come to life in the research. And really the breadth and the depth of the potential impact-- now you think about that your genetic makeup-- and there's 400 different individual use cases truly expanding across the entire economy. I think that's remarkable. I don't want to steal Matthias' thunder. He's going to mention a few of the measures of scale that we discovered as it came through in the next section. But really remarkable in terms of the percentage of physical materials, which potentially could be produced through bioroutes. It was astounding to me. JANET BUSH: So, Matthias, I know that you're going to talk about the scope of this revolution after this, but could you just say what surprised you the most? And then let's crack on with some more slides. MATTHIAS EVERS: Yeah, well, I don't-- I'll say two things. I mean, one is-- and I'm very honest here-- it was a relief because we had this very strong feeling now's the time for something that we can call and claim as a bio revolution. And as Michael said, the breadths and depths of impact-- MICHAEAL CHUI: We'd love to talk about just-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Already here-- and especially also outside the cross sectors of agro and pharma, there's a lot to be found in terms of visible innovation pipeline. But why don't I take that as a signal to crack on? And we can come back to some of the questions I see. I want to talk about it but that we do maybe a little bit later. Because, Michael said, surprising are really these few key figures. And one figure that we have been iterating on is 60% of the physical inputs to the global economy could be produced using biological means. I won't drill into the fine print of this. But just to explain the number a little bit, 20% of direct input of-- MICHAEAL CHUI: [INAUDIBLE],, but this is true about many, many different-- MATTHIAS EVERS: [INAUDIBLE] wood, paper, agricultural products, and you can imagine how that impacts us. The other 40% are actually interesting. How can by the means of modifying microbes, fermentation, et cetera, how can you actually produce bio-based materials that have-- I mean, there are examples we talk in our report about. I mean, different kind of properties, better properties but are bio-related. So this is a very surprising big figure. If you move to the next slide, now we went also a little bit into heath care, and we did that bottom up model. So we basically looked at what is the unmet need based on the list. So the people out of [INAUDIBLE] daily adjusted life here, so it measured for an unmet need. And then we took a view at the visible innovation pipeline, cell and gene therapy. MICHAEAL CHUI: Is farther off and there are a number of reasons-- [INAUDIBLE] right as I said in the previous chart. MATTHIAS EVERS: That based on bio-based innovations, we can [INAUDIBLE] 45% of the unmet need. So that is indeed a very encouraging figure as we also live in special times, so this-- I mean, we see it live every day how people are racing to find a COVID therapeutic. But this also could be guiding where's the remaining unmet need in future. But, again-- MICHAEAL CHUI: But as many people have noted-- in and on your body than you do have on your [INAUDIBLE]. MATTHIAS EVERS: So this is a little bit more on how things are being done. And what we did here is we looked a bit into the different types of R&D and looked at the total global R&D-- MICHAEAL CHUI: What should-- MATTHIAS EVERS: That can be clearly impacted by bio-related technologies, bio-related efforts. 20% of the global-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Of these technologies what regular-- MATTHIAS EVERS: To explain-- and then we found at least 5% in industry. This 5%, food, paper, chemicals, and others, so that constitutes the base of 30%. If you move on, now this is something that really-- I mean, perhaps I should have the-- is a little bit surprising because people that see my background-- and, yes, I was, of course, expecting this a lot in terms of impact in agro, in heath care, et cetera. But I think these numbers are also staggering in terms of greenhouse emissions because, I mean, if you really dig into it and say, for instance, the bio-route to generate coverage to harmful substances-- I think that's a big risk. So, of course, we can dig further into the details that are documented in our report, but this is really an impact of how more bio in industries can actually have an impact on our surroundings MICHAEAL CHUI: Folks who consider this to be-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Some of our hopefully interesting figures as you see, now behind that is also a bottom up approach. MICHAEAL CHUI: That is a real threat. MATTHIAS EVERS: Michael, why don't I ask you to present and go there a little bit. MICHAEAL CHUI: Happy too. So as we talked about before, we looked at hundreds of different potential individually-used cases. As Matthias made reference to, many of them are in places that you probably would have expected. So if you talk about human health and performance, again-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Just look over the last 10 years. We are-- MICHAEAL CHUI: History in pharma and medical products of creating real innovations that either extend life or improve the quality of life-- we see these-- this sets of biological technology-- MATTHIAS EVERS: They ask the question, how do we handle it? So we-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Continuing and accelerating that trend. And so whether it's the ability to cure-- MATTHIAS EVERS: And [INAUDIBLE] with-- MICHAEAL CHUI: What otherwise would have been life-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Everyone, like us-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Diseases, thalassemia, sickle cell, for instance, these monogenic diseases that are the result of a mutation in a single gene. Now we're seeing treatments where literally with a single treatment, a patient can be cured for their entire life. Well, as Matthias made [INAUDIBLE],, but then now perhaps challenging for certain health care. And many folks know some of the few-- sum all those up, the net of the impact within a decade or two could literally be in a trillion dollar range. And by impact we mean not only profits for providers and of pharmaceuticals as well as medical services-- in petrochemicals-- patients and people get from not getting sick or living longer, so that's amazing. But, again, that's something you might have expected. Many of these biological innovations come from medicine, et cetera. But if we flip to the next slide, what we actually discovered, there are a set of other domains where the impact is both substantial and quite direct. Again, in agriculture, the ability, for instance, to be able to use these techniques in order to increase the yield of plants that we use that-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Would hope it's faster than that so-- MICHAEAL CHUI: To improve the drought resistance, to even increase the nutritional value. MATTHIAS EVERS: Second thing is actually the breadth of-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Ways in which these techniques can improve the existing agricultural supply chain. But that said, there are now competitors to the existing agricultural supply chain. You think about the meat production supply chain, for instance. We do see other protein competitors, some of them plant-based. And then as I mentioned before, the ability to create cultured meat, a number of different players are creating what now is lab-grown meat using-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Stop to the virus. The time to get-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Those are very expensive, not cost competitive. If we look forward a decade, it is quite possible that, in fact, some of these cultured meat products will be cost competitive with traditional ways of agriculture producing those. One of the questions we've received is what are the things that have to happen? At the end of the day to a certain extent, this is about engineering. It is the process of how can you scale up this process from creating a few grams to literally creating kilograms and kilograms of these? And it is about engineering and achieving scale but also in consumer-- consumer products, whether it's cosmetics, as I mentioned before, or even the ability to use-- portfolio that-- sequencing, just use the data itself without having-- JANET BUSH: [INAUDIBLE] which is interesting. MICHAEAL CHUI: Life. You can potentially target everything from your microbiome, the microbes in your gut, to your diet. And so we're looking at a lot of those-- MATTHIAS EVERS: From a very different legacy I think-- MICHAEAL CHUI: The idea of personalization or precision targeting. And then also-- MATTHIAS EVERS: Investing heavily. MICHAEAL CHUI: Matthias mentioned that a rather startling statistic about the 60% of the physical inputs that the economy has the potential to be produced through bio-routes, that could affect everything from the production of textiles to fuels. And so if you sum all of those up, again, within the 10 to 20 year-- JANET BUSH: One-- many of the-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Looking at several trillion dollars, $2 to $4 trillion of direct economic impact. By the way, that's only in the 400 use cases. That doesn't include ones that we didn't come up with. And furthermore, I think that there were some questions here about is there a sector that this doesn't affect? We don't think so because, again, that's all about the direct effects. There are downstream effects as well as upstream effects of each of these. Upstream effects will change the supply chain of everyone who both feeds into industries that are affected by the bio revolution or-- it's a hard, hard problem. I don't have answer for-- [INAUDIBLE] third order bounces the ball to mix a metaphor. Again, if you're in the life insurance business and some of these health and human performance levers actually change lifespans-- MATTHIAS EVERS: On the implications of-- MICHAEAL CHUI: [INAUDIBLE] assumptions. So with that-- MATTHIAS EVERS: I take it as an impetus for-- MICHAEAL CHUI: Recognize huge potential benefits here. It is true that there are real risks that have to be managed. As I mentioned before, some of them rhyme with some of the challenges that we've seen in digital, some of the risks that we've seen in digital. Take privacy, for instance, we worry about these-- this breadcrumbs trail that we leave through the internet when using our phones. Now you think about what's more personal than, in fact, your genetic makeup? And if someone were to have access to that, what would they be able to do? Or for example, in the idea of neural machine interfaces, if you can, unquote, "read someone's thoughts," what does that mean for privacy? So there's a set of challenges there, which in some ways are an echo of some of the challenges that we've seen in digital. And then we see some of these risks, which are more unique to biological. Obviously, there are computer viruses, but some of these characteristics of biology, it is self replicating. Life finds a way, many people have said, for instance. It doesn't really respect national borders. A seed goes from-- or a genetically modified insect flies across the border, it's not really going to matter whether or not the laws in the first country matter, and the laws are different than the laws in the second country. That biology will continue to move. Biology is incredibly interconnected. You change something out in the wild, and it might actually cascade through to an entire ecosystem, right? So you could think about the butterfly's wings types of metaphors or Pandora's box being opened. And to that matter, I mean, one of the amazing things about the decrease in cost is the increasing accessibility of these technologies. Literally, you have people who are ordering CRISPR kits on the internet and hacking their own bodies in their garage. In some ways, that's amazing. That means that anyone from Bangkok to Belgium can contribute to the innovations in biology. At the same time, that also means if someone does something that has an unintended consequence or someone who-- a bad actor decides to misuse these technologies, these are real challenges as well. And so all of these risks have to be taken to an account hopefully in a fact-based, thoughtful, inclusive way in order to decide what are the things that we actually want to do with these technologies. How do we make sure we capture all the benefits that we possibly can while managing and mitigating some of these risks? So with that said, we go to the next slide. We'd love to talk about just a couple of other things. First of all, we did really try to understand time-- understand time frames-- take time very seriously. What does it take to get from the lab to the market because that just doesn't happen overnight? We see these preprints on net archive, et cetera. And you say, wow, that's amazing. Now we've solved the problem. And the answer is not quite yet. First of all, you do have to get the science, and that means you do have to invest. You need to have talent. You need to have all of the scientific funding, data, et cetera, to actually solve the problem. But once you solve it in the lab, there are a bunch of other things that have to happen before it can hit the market. You do have to have a value proposition. We've seen some challenges with previous iterations of biological innovation. Say biofuels, for instance, which had a cost competitiveness issue with the alternatives that already existed in the market. You have to have a business model. I mentioned before how do you think about things when-- a disease when you can cure it with a single treatment? How do you think about that? In fact, getting to market, there's a marketing funnel or as we now talk about customer journeys. Are people aware of it? How do they become convinced of its business or its value-- the business value, or a health value, et cetera, and then actually choose to buy it or have someone choose to pay for it? And then actually scaling up-- I mentioned this a little bit before about lab-grown meat, but this is true about many, many different bio routes. It's one thing to create biological materials at a lab capability. It's a very much different thing to try to create thousands of kilograms of it in a giant reactor where the conditions at the bottom of the reactor might be very different than the conditions at the top of the vessel. And so there's a lot of real engineering that has to go into it. And then, as I mentioned before, through this entire process, you need to be considering the risks, understanding what the regulatory impacts might be. One thing that we looked at was even given existing regulatory regimes, about 70% of the innovations that we think are possible already fall within some existing regulatory regimes. And so understanding both how society as well as regulators and governments will react is an important part. If you think about all of those-- if we go to the next slide, we just did try to place-- again, not with great precision, but with some idea of which types of innovations are really in the very short term, in the next-- from now through the next decade. We're already seeing CAR T therapies, for instance, as a way to go after cancer, for instance. Plant-based proteins are in the market, growing very fast over a small base. So we see some of these innovations that are already literally in the market today and growing quickly. We see some that are probably a decade or more off, whether it's cultured meat, as I mentioned. Again, perhaps within a decade, cost competitive. But when you look at where the actual kink in adoption might be, that point of acceleration and adoption, it might be a decade out, for instance. And then some things that are really farther and longer term. We do know that you could potentially use stem cells to grow a new organ maybe using 3D printing to create a substrate or what have you, but we do think that that's farther off. And there are a number of reasons why that's true, but certainly getting the science right, as I said in the previous chart, is important. And then getting it to market takes a lot more. And so with all that said, if we go to the next page, just talking quite briefly about some of the ways in which this could impact your companies, your organizations, and leaders out there. First of all, there are a set of business models, which really are biology first. We do see new competitors who are specializing and using these technologies, the biological technologies as well as the automation, artificial intelligence, et cetera, for instance, to create platforms, understand at a broad base what the data is, what you could actually do using all of these different technologies. Secondly, there's a new level of personalization. We've seen personalization before in digital. Now you can really personalize or be with precision with regard to individuals as a result of understanding of these-- not only someone's genome, but, as many people have noted, there's more genetic material in your microbiome, in the organisms that live in and on your body, than you have in yourself as a person. So there's lots more work to be done there. Value chains, indeed, will be disrupted. I talked about, for example, the meat value chain if you think about agriculture. But, again, if you think about textiles, you can now grow-- produce spider silk as a potential textile. That's changing the way that you might think about where materials come from. There is a confluence of disciplines. So what is the talent that you need? I had the opportunity to interview Jennifer Doudna, the co-inventor of CRISPR recently. I asked her what should people study if they go to college expecting an answer about biology, and she actually said, machine learning, artificial intelligence, those sorts of things for exactly the reasons that Matthias mentioned. They are so integral to actually accomplishing biology nowadays. And then, finally, we talked a little bit about risks. Really understanding how society will accept or not accept these technologies, what regulators will require, how that will play out over time, incredibly important given the way that these technologies evolve and the impact that they might have. And with that, why don't-- Janet, why don't you lead us through some questions and see what we have. JANET BUSH: Yes, thank you very much, Michael. Let me just go to the first one. I think one of the questions is why do some people consider buying bio as a threat rather than an opportunity? And I think we touched on risks, but, Matthias, do you say you want to say a bit more about that? MATTHIAS EVERS: Yeah, I'm very happy to. Now you might say I'm a German, but I'm still an optimist. And I'm a scientist, so I should be very optimistic about it. Still, I mean, I think as you know from the research, I've been coining the term Pandora's box is open. So I do fear that biology is democratizing in a way because [INAUDIBLE] CRISPR gene editing are very affordable. So I [INAUDIBLE] to the question are big investment needed? Now to scale up manufacturing, of course. I'm not diminishing that big investments are needed. But to make progress on the research side, I mean, actually, it's very cheap and accessible. Now I am-- I won't go into that area if somebody willfully doing something wrong, I mean, bioterrorism. But even in terms of experiments that are not fully controlled and lead to harmful substances that are replicated, I think, that's a big risk. So the question is really what is the right balance of allowing innovation but also finding a framework? And that is not that dissimilar to, let's say, to AI. I mean, risks are also not fully understood. So that's why our research strongly should signal the big opportunities, but we want to be very vocal also on the risk side. JANET BUSH: Michael, do you want to add to that or-- MICHAEAL CHUI: I'll add one other interpretation of some of the folks who consider this to be a threat. It can actually be a competitive threat, as I said before. There are a number of these new techniques, new materials, who will compete with existing providers. And so, again, if you are someone who is going to compete against cultured meat, if you're someone who is going to compete against the spider silk fabric, that is a real threat, and so you'll need to understand how to compete with it or maybe [? M&A. ?] And, again, there are all kinds of ways in which you can respond to those types of threats. JANET BUSH: OK, so we a lot of questions about the nitty gritty of once you've got the science, how do you scale it up? How do you commercialize it? One of the questions, which is interesting is what enabling technologies do you see as the key for rapid innovation scaling in bio? Matthias, do you want to take that one first? MATTHIAS EVERS: Yeah, I mean, I will refer back to something I started earlier, the role of AI and actually as a very important tool actually to much better understand biology. But if I would summarize it, so, one, AI would be on my list, i mean, as in not for all applications but for many which relate to actually the better understanding of biology and handling the data, as Michael said. A second one I would say actually it's the automation here. Biology-- whoever from the audience [INAUDIBLE] knows biology is messy. I mean, in chemistry, we had the high [INAUDIBLE] screening, very structured, I mean, very kind of-- a much more controlled experiment in a way, so biology is messy. Today, I mean, if you just look over the last 10 years, we live in a world where you can actually automate handling of cells. I mentioned the IPSC cells. So I would say is the better strictly controlled experiments, and the scaling up, and to what the work of high [INAUDIBLE] in biology and that you see in many areas-- see it on the cell side, in proteomics, and, of course, next generation sequencing is a prime example for that in its own right. And then certainly, I would say data collection. Now on the non-human data, we, of course, don't have privacy issues. Still they ask the question how do we handle it? So we have a couple of companies that actually even photograph cells and scale it up [INAUDIBLE] to create immense amounts of data to compare and [INAUDIBLE].. Now when we look to human data, we have crossed that privacy topic. The question is what is our framework where perhaps everyone like us [INAUDIBLE] still healthy or the patients we eventually are during our life that we can maybe donate data. That is the basis of these innovations. So in short, AI, I would put on the list. Data and data collection paradigms, I would put on the list. And automation, it's certainly there. We have a couple of more errors in our report, but I would leave it here, Janet. JANET BUSH: OK, Michael, how about you take this one? This, by the way, is something that most excited me about this report. How can the bio revelation contribute to a green economic recovery? MICHAEAL CHUI: Well, as Matthias made reference to earlier, when we added up the potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, it was material. Let's say that 8% or 9% of-- now it might take some time for that to happen. I'll give a couple examples of how this might be true. Take the meat supply chain, for instance. As many folks know, some of the animals that are raised in order to produce beef in a cow that is or meat in general do produce a substantial amount of methane, which is actually a more potent greenhouse gas in terms of heat trapping than carbon dioxide. And so if some percentage of that meat production was changed to either plant-based or lab-grown meat, it would greatly reduce the emissions of methane from that production process. But then there are other ways in which creating other physical goods, whether it's plastics and polymers, whether it's concrete, whether it's textiles, which are based in some cases in petrochemicals-- the other bio-routes, in many cases, can actually have a lower carbon or greenhouse gas emission than the traditional ways of doing that. And so there are all of these other bio-routes, if done well, can actually reduce the overall amount of greenhouse gas emissions. And as I mentioned before, there are some-- I mentioned harvesting livers of sharks. That's not great for the ecosystem, and alternative methods of creating those types of materials are superior from an ecological perspective. JANET BUSH: Thanks very much. I mean, obviously, COVID is what is on everybody's minds at the moment, and the last question talks about the recovery. We hope we're going to get one at some point. Matthias, do you want to say something about how the advances of the bio revolution are already helping to frame the early response to this virus? MATTHIAS EVERS: Well, I mean, I would say there are quite a few examples along the evolution of this crisis. I mean, A, I would adjust the timeline and the speed of progress. I mean, I think before this, the fastest way to get to a vaccine was four years, so I'm not claiming success here. This might get close, but, I mean, I would hope it's faster than that. So don't expect from me a forecast will we have a vaccine next year or not. Who knows? But the progress even to get a new candidate into clinic, and there are now multiple candidates in the clinic, is unheard of. I think the second thing is actually the breadth of innovation approach, and that's actually-- I want to relate to a question I've taken on myself here from the list because it was somebody nicely asking how can you be so confident? And that's an excellent question because we are not confident on individual projects, but we are confident that portfolio of technologies evolve. So what do I mean with that? I'm not confident that vaccine X will make it, but given the set of technologies and the breadth of shots on goals almost, I'm pretty sure one or the other will come through. And that's also similar in our research where we said we are pretty confident on the [? confluence. ?] We are pretty confident because we see a visible pipeline and [INAUDIBLE] projects making it to commercialization. So we are not confident that each shot on goal will make it. So, yes, there is a risk involved here. Biology is never without one, but that's also, I mean, a way for me to explain confluence. Sorry, Janet, a little bit diverging. Back to the core question. I think also the early days of the pandemic are interesting, and that, we document a little bit in the [INAUDIBLE] in our report. The time to get to a structure of the virus, the time to get to basically the base information that allows therapeutic research was also faster than ever before, so we see how biological innovations make an impact here. We all hope, of course, it will progress further, I mean, over the next one, two years. JANET BUSH: Brilliant. Thank you. Here's an interesting question. How do you prioritize different applications of the bio revolution-- prioritize the opportunities of the applications that we've outlined? Michael, do you want to have a go at that one? MICHAEAL CHUI: Yeah, I mean, first of all, I'll hearken back to Matthias' point about confidence in that having a portfolio is actually helpful. And so understanding that, in fact, instead of you're just placing one bet, you're placing multiple bets as you look at what you might want to do. But then in other ways, this is, in some ways, a straightforward business problem. Understanding what the potential might be is going to be one dimension. So where, in fact, can you do the most good for your customers and therefore capture some value from it from a commercial standpoint? Again, a similar sort of thing if you're trying to save lives or improve the quality of their lives. Where can you actually produce the most health care benefits? But then have an assessment about how hard it will be to take. How far away are you on the science? How far are you away in terms of being able to produce at industrial scale, either a material, or a vaccine, or a therapy, or even a service? And so if you put all those things together, you can create a portfolio that maximizes the potential return that you, society, others might get while also increasing the probability that, in fact, you will be successful. JANET BUSH: Great. Another question which is interesting. Which countries are in the vanguard of this bio revolution? Matthias, do you want to take that one? MATTHIAS EVERS: Sure. That's a very interesting question, I mean, because I think countries get very interested in bio-based economies. But how we describe actually the bio revolution is perhaps broader in its impact. Now there are two forces globally. I mean, the US and China investing heavily. Coming from a very different legacy, I think-- I mean, the US, which we all know with the various strong research base with a long history and groundbreaking research in various aspects of the bio revolution. I think China is, of course, investing heavily, and the country that has made a lot of progress on particular on bio-based cell therapy-based approaches. So I would call out those two big country regions. Now sitting here and talking to you today from Hamburg in Germany, I would bring Europe to the plate in terms of quality of the foundational resource. But, frankly, the numbers also show that, I mean, there is no really global business geared out of bio innovations out of Europe in the last 30 years, so that part's hidden for us. But, I mean, those, I would highlight at this moment of time. JANET BUSH: I think we've just got time possibly just for one more question, which is an important one. Many of the applications, particularly on the health side, will only be available to the very wealthy. How will they be applied more equitably between and within countries? Great question. Michael, do you want to try and answer that one? MICHAEAL CHUI: Yeah, absolutely. Well, first of all, to the antecedent of the question, I would probably rephrase it that when first introduced, some of these biological innovations might be very expensive. It's certainly very expensive to develop, and then how they will be priced is a different question. But what it calls into question is the potential that it, in fact, could at least continue if not exacerbate questions about inequality. If these treatments are very, very expensive, perhaps only the very wealthy countries might be able to deploy them or, in some cases, very wealthy individuals be able to pay for them. And so there is a real question both in terms of how their priced and how they're distributed, which partially or, in some cases, substantially can be determined by public policy. And so trying to understand how we can both create these innovations, be able to make sure that we have the incentives as well as the ability to create these innovations, and be able to distribute them, that's a hard, hard problem. And so one that I don't think we have a pat answer for, but we do have to understand how to do this. These technologies do have the potential to exacerbate inequality both across countries as well as within them. MATTHIAS EVERS: I mean, that's-- JANET BUSH: I think we've-- MATTHIAS EVERS: I mean-- sorry, Janet. And this was maybe-- JANET BUSH: Go ahead, please. MATTHIAS EVERS: --the last question. I mean, let me just say-- nothing-- not much to add, but let me also take this as an opportunity to say we wanted to trigger a dialogue also on the risks, on the implications, of this opportunity, so thank you also for asking the critical or challenging questions. And, again, there's a lot we can't answer now, but let us take it as an impetus for our further work. So thank you. JANET BUSH: Well, thanks. Thank you. Thank you, Michael and Matthias. And thank you for our production team who helps us run this webinar in a relatively technically sophisticated and smooth way. On behalf of the McKinsey Global Institute and McKinsey, we would love to thank you for joining us today. [MUSIC PLAYING] 