 - We will then go to our next speaker, who is professor Lourdes Verdes Montenegro. Lourdes is a radio astronomer at the Institute for Astrophysics in Andalusia, Spain. And she's also been for many, many years, the driving force really leading the campaign for Spain's participation in the SKA Project and indeed a campaign which has been met with success as Spain is now stepping up its engagement with the global project. And Lourdes has also been very much involved in various European programmes, work of the European Research Council, the African European Radio Astronomy partnership, etc. And it's my pleasure now to invite Lourdes to speak to us on how the SKA, as a model of open science, is seeking to advance sustainability and inclusivity in Spain. So Lourdes over to you. - Okay, thank you, for this opportunity to speak about the role that that open science has in sustainability and inclusiveness and the role model that SKA can and probably must play in this context. I would like to start kind of asking ourselves if open science is really a new concept, because I think we use many adjectives for science, like excellent and high quality and trustable and open. But if we just go nearly 400 years back in time, Rene Descartes already established the principles of the scientific method, the foundations of the philosophy of science. So science scientific method reproducible open all that should be the same. So maybe we shouldn't need so many adjectives for science, but in any case we can understand each other by speaking about open science, and because as I said, this is about following the scientific method. Well, obviously we already follow scientific method because we are scientists, but we want to follow the scientific method of course, but we can both go to this Nature in 2016 and about 1500 scientists answer that 70% of them can't reproduce the experiments of all the scientists and even 50% of them couldn't reproduce their own ones. And that's across all disciplines. And I know that some of you may not empathise with that and say well, that's not my case, but probably we, many of us have experienced what this tweet says that I like very much. And it says, "you can download our code, good luck downloading the only postdoc that can get it to run." So that's really something many of us have experienced, someone leaves and everything is there, but who there is to do deal with that. So it's not so easy and so what happened since the time of the Descartes was, we have the paper, the narratives, but we are moving beyond the PDF. And a lot of the information that is in the papers is just there, but most it's lost. So it's lost, is a just resting in paper and the reason is that in practise reproducibility is very complicated now because the way we would like to work, I think or I would like to work is, once I define a problem and I design the experiment before I actually start typing any code or doing anything, I would like to go to some database and finding my discipline or any other discipline. If I would be able to find something that is useful for me, that I could be able to inspect it if I needed modify and of course execute it before, not needing to write emails to someone to ask how do you do it and to preserve this methodology and publish it, so we close the circle. So we are moving to a very complicated panorama and in the practise, the theory I think is clear. So, but it is worth doing it because open science really is useful for sustainability and inclusiveness because well, the European Commission says that it's an approach to collaborative, transparent and accessible research. But we don't need to go to a top down to hear that, we need to remember that open science started bottom-up and I think that's very useful and aligned with what should drive achieving the SDG goals. And also the UNESCO said that, open science really plays a key role in democratising science and in making science to achieve these United Nations SDGs. So, some examples on how open science can help with that, is something we know is that science is hidden behind paywall barriers. We are far from having free access. The whole scientific community is very biased, they want free access to research resources in terms of country, economy, etc. and also, and then open science is playing a role in the partnership for, to achieve the goals in one of the SDG goals, because it makes data and results more accessible and reliable and also promote interchange exchange of ideas and avoids duplication. Also in this moment, so I'm not saying open science will save the world, but we are in the middle of a very, very difficult situation of pandemics and in sanitary crisis is when we need to accelerate the transfer of knowledge to society. And in this race we have in this rush, we have to get the solution to the situation. I just wonder how many papers and experiments will stand there in a year or two years, just because they were not open, nobody could check them. This was the work of a team and maybe the statistic was not enough. So open science I think is crucial, especially in these moments. And also has a crucial role in speeding up skills, building up skills and because it opened the methodology. So it's easier to train students and also in teaching. So we can reach students at schools through the teachers and they can learn to in general, collaborative practices and of course citizen science or the citizens have rights to use scientific data to try to do and they have done very successfully also research. And also apart from all the previous aspects I said, in order to promote diversity and inclusion, I think is a tool to reduce inequalities because it allows an objective evaluation of work and that's even a stronger in a case of women. So it has an impact in gender equality because by opening the results of research contributions that usually are ignored or just are minimised can be exposed and get the proper recognition. Of course, all this has to link together with a methodology and well, this scheme is just trying to link all this together, but it's not very complicated to follow. If we make the data and the methods more findable and accessible, if we made all these fair, we will avoid to reinvent the wheel and these will increase our scientific production and the transfer to society. Make things reusable and also we will increase and get faster the return of these investments were made in big research infrastructures. Also, if we make our methods easier to understand this will favour collaborations and also open to society and contribute with skill building. And as I said before, it's very important that our methods, our ways to do science are open to anybody. So our science is reliable. There is more trust and we prevent psuedosciences. And all this requires many ways of evaluation, so new metrics. So, but we know it's worthwhile, we know it's difficult, but it's even more difficult now because we are in every discipline, we are in the big data era. And something very important is that we do not forget about reproducibility when we want to be efficient. And so this era that as I said is in all disciplines, I think make us to think that now is the time to ask what kind of research may a science infrastructures want to do for tomorrow, for the future. And here we have this Square Kilometre Array, which gathers all these challenges. The big data, the multi-cultural, multi-national collaboration distributed across the globe and is already starting right now to establish collaborations with different partners in order to face this challenge. And part of this challenge on open science is going to be located at the SKA regional centres that Antonio just spoke about, because there is where the core of SKA science is going to happen. So the role of open science can be understood because we are going to need to change how we do things because the data cannot be delivered to a users directly because of the size and the data that come directly from the observatory are not going to be really for science analysis before they go through the network of regional centres and our community is globally distributed. So it means that a global shift in our research practices. And in that sense, I think that the SKA has a duty, the duty of being a role model and I think a is already fulfilling with that. In 2018, we organised well, SKA organised a session at European Science Open Forum about these data deluge that is coming and that is time to act, is adopting open science values and reproducibility as another metric of success. And if you dig a bit about, in the next data challenge that SKA is going to issue, also reproducibility plays an important role there. There are also European projects, speaking on European level because there is a big compromise in open science in Europe that Chiara really talked about. And where open science has been applied both to the regional centres, but also to it's free facilities to address these challenges around the European Open Science Cloud. I just want to make a note here and is that, there is something sociological here or linked to people here because we have new roles in this contexts, we have new perspectives. And I think it's very telling for the challenge to think about the individual scientists, which is the most frequent probably now. We think that we have the best code, we know how to do it, it can do what nobody can do. And we don't trust the code of other people and probably because we cannot reproduce our own results from two years ago. So in general, the individual user wants full control of everything. But the data centres have another perspective. So if our data centres is going to ask for some software to a user needs to trust the software, needs to make it easy to be used and probably is going to ask, okay, I'm offering a service to the community, then can I share it? You saw what were the community and you saw where it's not just throw things there. You need to put context for people to be able to rerun it. Then we go to this new paradigm, which we are working in large alliance of scientists. And then here, these alliances are investing resources in order to make tools to produce advanced science, advanced data products, but it's this extra effort to make science reproducible worth. If this means that I'm going to make things easier for my competitors, probably people will do. Okay, I will share with you my methods in some years. So this is about how we measure the metrics of our careers. The publishing model is evolving and it's variable, needs to evolve because all this requires probably different profiles or referees. Are we going to have enough referees to evaluate data tools and that scientific analysis, maybe together maybe separate. Should the referees have access to the data centres to validate a paper? And of course the policymakers have a problem in the evaluation because how to measure reproducibility is challenging and how to aggregate it with other indicators is even more challenging. So far it may sound like open science is our aim, but in fact we need to understand that this the mean we need, because we don't only need to make work together machines. We need to make to work together large teams. And for that open science, any science are key in order to provide all these resources that Antonio explained before. And I'm going to skip that because I think I can explain it in this network of interoperable regional centres should provide in terms of technology and that's the result of discussions and work of different committees working groups and the community is a science gateway that can provide this transparent access to the community, to the data, the tools, validation. Also the workflows, the pipelines have to be documented, so we have all the trays of the different processes. And if we follow standards for interoperability, all these places in favour of collaborative science. And when we go to present in the results of our research, doing this in terms of reproducible notebooks is also useful for supporting and training our next generation of astronomers. And of course to do this, we need also new metrics. So my last slide is well, I think that SKA is mega-science infrastructure that is engaged with trustable and reproducible science that wants to go beyond number of papers, citations and wants to pursue the scientific method. And you may say, okay, after you thought this is very difficult, but something I've learned in this whole decade I've been involved in the project is that I've never seen anyone in SKA scared or intimidated by the word difficult. So I think that open science is not going to intimidate our community, thank you. - Thank you, thank you very much Lourdes. Indeed open science might not save the world but it will play certainly a very important part in saving the world. And thank you very much for what is really the most pressing science policy priority within United systems right now for contextualising the SKA Project in that, people or colleagues might know that at a general assembly, a decision has been taken for UNESCO to develop a global recommendation on open science, which will certainly have an impact on the SKA Project. But I think the SKA project, as you have highlighted has also unique ability to shape and define the policy thinking on open science. So thank you very much for that. 