 Hello, dear students. Welcome to the lecture 1 of artificial  intelligence and machine learning courses. Let's start lecture 1 introduction based on   Asst. Prof. Dr. Senem Kumova Metin's resources. Dictionary definitions of intelligence.   So let's take a look at the definitions of  intelligence reading in different resources. The ability to use memory knowledge  experience understanding reasoning   imagination and judgment in order to solve  problems and adapt to new situations. The ability to learn or understand or to  deal with new or difficult situations. the capacity for understanding ability  to perceive and comprehend meaning The ability to acquire and  apply Knowledge and Skills.   Okay, as you can see there are four  main descriptions of intelligence. overview of artificial intelligence AI computers with the ability to mimic or duplicate  the functions of the human brain. The term was   coined in 1956 by John McCarthy at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology.   So it was invented. I mean, the term of  artificial intelligence was invented in 1956.   You see the history of artificial  intelligence costs so back. However, on the recently it is becoming very  popular. Do you know why because of the advancing   libraries and the hardware. We will see them  in the future lessons what I mean, but   it's rude goes back to till 1956. Which makes roughly? 64 years, it is old. So, there are two main  definitions made for artificial intelligence. artificial intelligence systems the people procedures Hardware software data  and knowledge needed to develop computer   systems and machines that demonstrate  the characteristics of intelligence.   So to compose an artificial intelligence  system, we need all of these. And we need to put them in  together use all of them. in the needed page. Okay. Overview of artificial intelligence AI  So let's define intelligent behaviors.   So what do we expect? Learn from experience apply knowledge acquired  from experience handle complex situations solve   problems when important information is missing  determine what is important react quickly and   correctly to a new situation understand  visual images process and manipulate   symbols be creative and imaginative use  heuristics. So all of these are aspects or features of intelligent behaviors design methodology and goals the exciting new effort to make computers things  machine with mines in the full and literal sense. So some of the goals that people  have put in the previous years. the study of mental faculties through  the use of computational models The art of creating machines  that perform functions that   require intelligence when performed by people. I think this is very very  accurate, you know a robot can do Non changing things such as a robots can cut  a metal always in the same way. This wouldn't   be an artificial intelligence. For example,  a robotic robotic car factory. In a robotic   car factory, there are multiple robots work in  synchronization and and builds a car, but it is not Result of an artificial intelligence  because they are programmed to do   certain things and it is just repetitive. It  doesn't require intelligence when performed by   people because you always cut the same line, cut  the same way, cut same dimensions. It is robotic   Behavior, but not and artificial intelligence  behaviors or the intelligent behavior. A field of study that seeks to explain and emulate   intelligent behavior in terms  of computational processes. systems that think like human systems that think   rationally systems that act like  humans systems that act rationally Okay, let's start with. Systems that act like humans behaviorist approach not interested in how  you get results just the similarity to what   human results are Eliza one of the first  chatter Bots and one of the first programs   capable of attempting the Turing test Turing  test a test for intelligence in a computer   requiring that a human being should  be unable to distinguish the machine   from another human being by using the  replies to questions put to both six. Okay, six extra readed. So Turing test is extremely popular   in terms of artificial intelligence.  Let's learn more about the Turing test. acting humanly the Turing test Alan Turing's 1950 article Computing  Machinery and intelligence discussed   conditions for considering a machine to be  intelligent. So in such an environment where,   there is a person asks both  sides questions, and get answers.   one site is real human, one side is  the machine. So, if the interrogator the Who is asking the questions cannot understand  the difference between human and the Machine   it passes the Turing test? Interrogator asks questions of two  people who are out of sight and hearing   one as a human the other one a machine  30 minutes to ask whatever she he wants   to determine only through questions  and answers which has which if the   interrogator cannot distinguish between human  and computer. The machine has passed the test. Currently, I think this is sitting not possible.   You can ask such questions to determine  which side is human or computers. So, for computer to pass this test  computer needs to possess these skills. Computer needs to possess  natural language processing   knowledge representation automated  reasoning machine learning. Okay, let's see. What does each of mean? each of them the means what would a computer need  to pass the Turing test? natural language processing  to communicate with Examiner So, it has to understand the question.  It has to convert that into the text and   in to do meaningful queries to answer it as a  as a voice again. Natural language processing. Knowledge representation to  store and retrieve information   provided before or during interrogation. Automated reasoning to use the stored information  to answer questions and to draw new conclusions. Machine learning to adapt to new circumstances  and to detect and extrapolate patterns just saw   So, the computer may have let's say the integrator  asks hundred questions and the computer knows   99 of them previously previously coded. However,  if a new question comes that the computer doesn't   know programmatically from before, it needs  machine learning to answer that new question. Okay, problems. Problems: one Turing test as not reproducible  constructive and amenable to mathematical analysis   to what about physical interaction  with interrogator and environment?   Okay. So what does these means? Each time the Turing test would  change each time according to   the person asking questions. So you  cannot reproduce it or test on it. So you have to have a system that has General as  much as possible. And in that way it would answer   every person questions, if it is being channeled  and what about physical interest in interaction? Total faltering test requires physical  interaction and needs perception and actuation. So, what does this mean? Let's say I asked. Let's say there is a window  that we can put objects.   I said that, and let's say I have two pencils. I am  putting that two of my pencils and I am saying the Side, the other side take my blue pencil and leave  my red pencil in order to pass this test. The   computer has to be able to see the environment  and act with it like an human like it. It must   have an arm, robotic arm to get that blue  pencil, red pencil and leave the other one. Okay. Computer needs to possess natural language  processing knowledge representation automated   reasoning our machine learning, mr. And  computer vision robotics. So, computer   vision and robotics would be required to  do such physical tasks. These are needed   to just talk and answers or but these  are needed to do physical tasks. so what would a computer need to pass the  full Turing test. it needs all of these. Natural language processing  knowledge representation   automated reasoning our machine learning.  Mr. Vision to recognize the examiners actions   and various objects presented by The Examiner  robotics to manipulate objects and move about So, with vision, we recognize our environment  and take an action account according to that   and with robotics we manipulate objects to physical things. Systems that think like humans, okay. Focus not just on behavior and  IO look at reasoning process What does this mean do you think? this means  that we are not just focused on behavior and I/O(input/output). It is more about the reasoning when a human  takes an action. There is a reasoning behind it. Okay, that's important. Computational model should  reflect how results were obtained. GPS General Problem Solver goal not just to  produce human-like Behavior like Eliza, but   to produce a sequence of steps of the reasoning  process that was similar to the steps followed by   a person in solving the same task. So I have let's  say, you are a manager have has given to a task. And to solve that you need to make some  planning take step-by-step actions in a   in an artificial intelligence  system. They expect the same. thinking humanly cognitive science Thinking like a human  determining. How humans think. Cognitive science brings together  theories and experimental evidence to   model internal activities of the brain. So the  cognitive so the aim of cognitive science is using the same model of our brain, you  know that our brain is composed by synopsis   and interactions and the roads between them.  So with the competitive size we are trying to Compose a system works in  a way similar to our brain. systems that think rationally formalize the reasoning process producing  A system that contains logical inference   mechanisms that are provably correct and  guarantee finding an optimal solution. This brings up the question. How do we represent  information that will allow us to do inferences. So we have to one of the hardest things. In the artificial intelligence, is that  representing the information to do machines? So, how do we represent? Let's  say a back in the room to the computers. As a human our visioning capabilities are  extremely superior, but we have to represent that   object in in the computer way. So, that computer  can process in analyze it, and take actions on it. Represent the data representation is  one of the hardest part of computer AI.   you will learn about more about  that in the future lessons. thinking rationally laws of thought Aristotle Tilda 450 BC attempted to codify   right thinking what are correct  arguments thought processes. E.g, Socrates as a man all men are  mortal therefore Socrates is mortal. the law of thought approach  initiated the field called logic Okay problems first. One uncertainty not all facts are  certain EG the flight might be delayed. It is not easy to take in formal knowledge and  state in formal terms required by logical notation   particularly when the knowledge is less  than 100% certain. The second one is Resource limitations not enough time to compute  process insufficient memory disk, etc. Etc. Okay.   So, these sources limitation was a very big problem  until recently. It is why the AI is having a blast   nowadays. You see it was founded in 1956. It  was invented as a word. However, it is recently becoming very popular. Why? Because, only the recent  developments of existing libraries, frameworks and   the computer hardware, and data we have it's only  recent allows us artificial intelligence to   become some reality becomes stronger better. So,  this is one of the biggest limitation resources. Resource limitation. systems that act rationally. So these are the relational systems. For a given set of inputs tries to  generate an appropriate output. That   is not necessarily correct, but gets the job done. rational and sufficient  satisficing methods not optimal So, you you probably hurt act rationally activation  of the bottles that mean that means that   We try to achieve a success.  We try to achieve solve a problem.   It doesn't have to be the best way.  It doesn't have to be the optimal. But, our aim when acting rationally  is getting as much as the benefit. Jay acting rationally the rational agent approach. Rational Behavior doing the right thing  the right thing that which is expected   to maximize the expected return provides the  most General view of AI because it includes   correct inference laws of thought uncertainty  handling resource limitation considerations. EG   reflex versus deliberation cognitive skills  NLP our knowledge representation. Ml Etc.   So an out the is natural  language processing our is What was it? automated reasoning and okay. And now the chair presentation and machine  learning and such things advantages more General   its goal of a rationally is well defined it. So,  the goal is the maximize the expected return.   Okay, maximize the expected return.  Some maximize the benefit of RA. Acting rationally the rational agent approach. An agent is something that acts a  computer agent as a program that   operates under autonomous control perceives the  environment persists over a prolonged time period   adapts to change is capable of taking another's  goal. So this is the futures of a computer agent. A rational agent as the agent that act so as to  achieve best outcome or when there is uncertainty   the best expected outcome. So this is the goal  of the agent. Why study AI, and AI is the next   step of the development of human  mankind, you know the robotic age I mean the machines. Has made us progress. So, only so far now we can  produce cars, better cars, or we can produce much   more food, and living much more  luxury all the way to Machines working   without ever stopping. However, AI will get  us next step. I believe that in some features   that humans will not be have  to work at all that way. Being Universal income for everyone and  everyone get leave without ever working   everything that has to be done by  humans will be done by machines. This is my somewhat prediction of the far future. applications of AI game playing deep blue chess program  beat world champion Garry Kasparov. Now,   this is much more advancer. For example,  even in now real time strategy games such as   Dota 2. It's a very complex game. It's a very  hard game and AI can now beat even such that game.   It is already very hard game  for a human for a human team. But AI is now capable of   beating the humans in such game. Let's  let's see some more information about that. Okay. I'd open a I we've used the  multiplayer video game Dota 2   as a research platform for general-purpose  AI systems are Dota 2 AI called open a I5   learned by playing over 10,000 years of games  against itself. It demonstrated the ability to   achieve expert level performance. Learn human  AI cooperation and operated internet scale. So you see this verse is very  important General propose AI systems   general purpose is one of the aims  of AI if you have a specific task,   you don't need a i you can code it you can  program it with if ifs and else's and switch   cases and such things. However, if you want  something to be general purpose you need AI Okay, let's see if there is more information. Okay, you can search for  more information about this. Speech recognition, I use speech  recognition to generate automated subtitles   to these videos by using Google cloud. And this  is also another thing of aii text to speech. Pegasus spoken language interface to American  Airlines EAS y saber reservation system which   allows users to obtain flight information and make  reservations over the telephone. The 1990s has   seen significant advances in speech recognition.  So that limited systems are now successful   as you can see it's pulse. However, it is still  not as good as humans. Yes, it is to turn. Clear that it is spoken by a computers. But I will live in future it will become much more  advanced and human life. Computer vision, which is   used in many areas such as autonomous cars or  collecting fruits from vegetables from plants. Face recognition programs and used by Banks  government Etc. The ALB iinn system from CMU   autonomously drove a van from Washington DC to  San Diego all but 52 of 2849 miles averaging   63 miles per hour day and night and in all  weather conditions handwriting recognition   electronics and Manufacturing  inspection photo interpretation   baggage inspection reverse engineering  to automatically construct. 3D geometric model Okay, applications of AI expert systems.  So what is an expert system? Let's see it. Application specific systems  that rely on obtaining the   knowledge of human experts in an area and  programming that knowledge into a system. For example, Let's look at the Wikipedia. Expert system, let's read. In artificial intelligence an expert system has a  computer system that emulates the decision making   ability of a human expert one expert systems are  designed to solve complex Problems by reasoning   through bodies of knowledge represented mainly  as if-then rules rather than through conventional   procedural code to the first expert systems were  created in the 1970s and then proliferated in the   1980s three expert systems were among the first  truly successful forms of artificial intelligence. Gents AI software 4 5 6 7 8 and expert  system is divided into two sub systems   the inference engine and the knowledge  base the knowledge base represents   facts and rules. The inference engine applies  the rules to the known facts to deduce new facts   inference engines can also include  explanation and debugging abilities history. advantages, disadvantages, applications Also, let's see Okay, this looks like a good one. Okay, for example, let's read it.  You will get more information. Example number one, Mison historically  the myson system played a major role in   stimulating research interest  in rule-based expert systems   my sin as an expert system for diagnosing and  recommending treatment of bacterial infections   of the blood such as meningitis and bacteremia, it  was developed at Stanford University in California   USA in the 1970s and has become a template  for many similar rule based systems it Intended to support clinicians in the  early diagnosis and treatment of meningitis   which can be fatal if not treated in time  advertisements. However, the laboratory   tests for these conditions take several days  to be completed so doctors and therefore   meissen have to make decisions with incomplete  information associated with medical knowledge.   My sin Incorporated a calculus of  uncertainty called certainty factors,   which seemed at that time to fit well  with how doctors assess the impact of Of evidence on the diagnosis this system  was able to perform as well as some experts   and considerably better than Junior doctors a  consultation with my sand begins with requests   for routine information such as age medical  history and so on programming to more specific   questions as required my sins expertise knowledge  lies in the domain of bacterial infections   my sins pool of knowledge consists of  approximately 500 antecedent consequent rules. Mended in lisp which give my sin the ability to  recognize about 100 causes of bacterial infections   positions usually begin antibiotic  treatment for patients who have   bacterial infections without knowing  exactly which organism as the culprit   there is no time to wait for definitive  laboratory culture evidence, which   accumulates too slowly for the desperately sick  therapy must begin at once not two days after. This requirement leaves two choices. I The  Physician can either prescribe a broad-spectrum   drug which covers all possibilities or E. He  can prescribe a better disease specific drug   mice and helps the physician to prescribe  disease specific drugs. My sin in forms itself   about particular cases by requesting information  from The Physician about a patient's symptoms   General condition history and Laboratory  test results at each point the question. My son asks as determined by my son's  current hypothesis and the answer to   all previous questions. Thus the question  start as though taken from a checklist,   but the questions then bury as evidence builds  just so this is an expert system by it focuses on one goal determining the bacteria information  cause. It is the which infection, in which bacteria.   So, this is a system expertise it on some  something not this is not a general AI.  this is expect of this system. So  this is our expert systems, okay? diagnostic systems Microsoft Office Assistant provides customized  help by decision theoretic reasoning about   an individual user myson system for diagnosing  bacterial infections of the blood and suggesting   treatments Pathfinder medical diagnosis system,  which suggests tests and makes diagnosis. Okay, so this is one area of AI  expert systems. Okay another idea. financial decision making credit card companies mortgage companies Banks   and the US government employee AI systems to  detect fraud and expedite Financial transactions. I don't know how many there are transactions  but probably billions of transactions are going   through these companies, these systems each  day. So it is extremely hard to check them   one by one by real humans. So,  a financial decision making system can   filter through them and bring  attention to human express the most critical once or most respectable ones and such. Systems often use learning algorithms to  construct profiles of customer usage patterns   and then use these profiles to detect  unusual patterns and take appropriate action.   Let's say someone hacked with  your credit card and make a purchase that is very unusual to your profile.  Let's say you are living in mersin and that   purchase made from United States or in China.  So this financial decision-making system should   catch that and alert you or alert  your bank or who is in charge, okay. classification systems put information into one of a fixed set of  categories using several sources of information   EG Financial decision-making systems NASA  developed a system for classifying very   faint areas in astronomical images into  either stars or galaxies with very high   accuracy by learning from Human experts  classifications. So in classification,   the number of categories are present, predetermined. So for example in NASA case, there are  two categories which are stars or galaxies   classification systems are usually extremely  high usually have extremely high accuracy   in terms of AI applications because there are  infinite number of categories. And if you have   enough number of data with the current algorithms,  you can classify things into those categories. very high accuracy mathematical theorem proving use  inference methods to prove new theorems.   So, some of the applications  of AI mathematical theorem proving   we can use inference methods to pronate  your hands, which is very exciting very difficult also. Natural language understanding Google's translation of web pages translation  of caterpillar truck manuals into 20 languages   Note One early system translated the  English sentence. The spirit is willing,   but the flesh is weak into the Russian equivalent  of the vodka is good, but the meat is rotten. As you can see sometimes Google translate  automatic translations. May results, very bad.   Also still they are very inferior  to the human experts translations. applications of AI more applications of AI scheduling and planning automatic scheduling  for manufacturing darpa's Dart system used in   Desert Storm and Desert Shield operations  to plan Logistics of people and supplies   American Airlines rerouting contingency planner   European Space Agency planning and scheduling of  spacecraft assembly integration and verification. Robotics and path planning NASA's rover mission biology and Medicine modeling of  cellular functions analysis of DNA   and proteins. Okay. So how to achieve a  I sound so good but how to achieve it. how to achieve AI How is AI research done AI research  has both theoretical and experimental   sides. The experimental side has  both basic and applied aspects. There are two main lines of research one  has biological based on the idea that since   humans are intelligent AI should study humans  and imitate their psychology or physiology.   The other is phenomenal based on studying  and formalizing common-sense facts about the   world and the problems that the world  presents to the achievement of goals. The two approaches interact to some  extent and both should eventually succeed.   It is a race, but both Racers  seem to be walking John McCarthy. So, these are the two main nice of research   and as you can see one side is  aiming to construct system. That imitates the human. Humans AI and the other one is phenomenal   studying formalizing Common Sense science  facts about the world and the problems.   It is more like a mathematical formalization.  So, both of them interacts to some extent and   both should eventually succeed according to  John McCarthy. Okay major branches of AI. major branches of AI so perspective system Perception it's about perception  perceptive system A system that   approximates the way a human sees  hears and feels objects. This is an extremely hard task and extremely important  task when this is perfectly achieved.   There will be human robots that tells  the human jobs that will be autonomous   cars, that rise on the roads perfectly  safe. Just imagine this is this will make and historical leap of the  humans, in humans history. Vision system capture store and manipulate  visual images and pictures Vision system   is a necessity for perceptive  system to be successful. Robotics mechanical and computer devices that  perform tedious tasks with high Precision.   So the Robotics are necessary to  basically manipulate anything physically,   let's say you want to open doors, you want to  cut something, you want to construct something   everything depends on robotics. Robotics are  already very advanced set with high precision. For expert systems, for a task that is  pretty time predator minute. It's extremely   working well with high precision. However, if  you want to build something that is general use they are still inferior. expert system stores  knowledge and makes inferences major branches of a i 2/3 Okay Learning System, Learning System  computer changes how it functions or   reacts to situations based on  feedback Saudis Learning System   is used in many of the current air systems  such as we talked about health and AI   beaten the expensive Dota2 to game they use  it reinforcement learning system. We saw that they use it they have. They Run 110 thousand years of magic you see every  time it plays a game it learns something and based   on the something it tries to improve its success  it plays against itself simultaneously many times.   So, it is also same for humans,  but we start playing a game we learn it. As we played it from the feedback of our  previous claims. It is same for learning systems.   They learn as they play in the in the case of  playing games or in other tasks doing the task. Nature language processing which I am  already using for recording this video. Natural language processing computers understand  and react to statements and commands made in a   natural language such as English. And neural  networks. Neural networks are also another   major branch of AI at the moment because they  work so well if you have enough amount of data. Neural network computer system that can act like  or simulate the functioning of the human brain. Okay, so some major branches  robotics. Vision systems, Learning   Systems, nature language processing,  neural networks, and expert systems. AI prehistory, okay. So philosophical logic methods of reasoning  minds as physical system foundations of learning. Language relation of the mathematics formal  representation of proof of algorithms computation   and Scientology in tractability and probability  actually many of the current algorithms are   founders like 30 years ago,  40 years ago, 50 years ago. However, they're only recently become useful to  us. Do you know why? because only recently we have   enough hardware power, and data to make use of them. Data and power is everything for the AI currently. The first illogically adoption phenomena  of perception and motor controlled   experimental techniques, psychophysics and etc. knowledge, representation, grammar Neuroscience: physical substrate for  mental activity control theory remains static   system stability simple optimal agent  designs. Okay, AI history is giving you see it is starting with 1943 as  holding circuit model of pain. ones and zeros, shootings Computing  machinery and intelligence and adult things. You see discovers computational complexity  neural network research almost has   almost disappeared. Why? because in those years  there weren't enough Hardware power or data. You see in 85 and 95 neural network. We  saw its popularity because Hardware as it   develops every year significantly. Oki state-of-the-art So, let's read it. But the following been achieved  by AI world-class chess playing   playing table tennis cross-country driving  solving mathematical problems discover and prove   mathematical theories engage in a meaningful  conversation understand spoken language   observe and understand human emotions express  emotions. So this is done. This is also done. This is still not done enough. There are cars that can drive  through a country. However,   I think still no cross-country driving  solving mathematical problems done discover   and parameter Vector is done engage in  meaningful conversation. Someone's still   Understand spoken language done, Observe of human emotions kind of done.   Not fully. Express emotions still kind of done. Okay, special topics and introduction.  So these are the topics of AI. Natural language processing robotics machine  learning expert systems genetic algorithms   information retrieval planning Vision neural  networks. Let's take a pause for myself. Okay, let's continue. natural language processing Natural language processing process information  contained in natural language text also known   as computational Linguistics CL human language  technology HLT natural language engineering. Nle. These are the others names of  natural language processing. Can machines understand human language Define  understand understanding is the ultimate goal?   However one doesn't need to  fully understand to be useful. For example currently machine is converting  this speech this text into the speech. However,   it doesn't understand it. It may have  understanding to a certain degree to compose   voices in a better way, but it  doesn't understand as humans, too. Analyze understand and generate  human languages just like humans do   applying computational techniques to  language domain to explain linguistic   theories to use the theories to build  systems that can be of social use started   off as a branch of artificial intelligence  borrows from Linguistics psycholinguistics   cognitive science and statistics make computers.  Learn our language rather than we learn there's The input output of a NLP system can be  written text speech to process written text.   We need lexical syntactic semantic knowledge about  the language discourse information real-world   knowledge to process spoken language. We need  everything required to process written text   plus the challenges of speech  recognition and speech synthesis. Okay, NLP applications. Question answering who is the  first Taiwanese president.   So first it has to convert spoken  language into the text. Then, it has to   analyze this question understand it and answer  it. It requires so many background processes. This is very hard part text categorization  wrote range. This is rather easier one.   This is text categorization routing. EG  customer emails classification text mining. Text mining find everything that interacts with  brca1 Mission assisted translation. For example. Machine assisted translation language teaching  learning usage checking spelling correction.   Is that just Dictionary lookup so these are the  NLP applications. Let's continue with robotics. Word robot was coined by a Czech.  Novelist Karel capek in a 1920 play   titled. Rossum's Universal robots Are You Are? Rubato in check is a word for worker or servant.   So this is the history of  robots. Definition of robots. A robot as a reprogrammable multifunctional  manipulator designed to move material parts tools   or specialized devices through variable programmed  motions for the performance of a variety of tasks   robot Institute of America. 1979. Sookie compounds  power conversion unit, sensors, actuators, controller   user interface, manipulators linkage, and base.  These are the key components of a robot. Robotics: what can robots do? Industrial Robots. these industrial robots   doesn't require AI to work. Okay. So, you need  to separate robots and AI robots can work   perfectly fine without AI which they  have been working for many years now. Because all of these tasks can be  programmed without artificial intelligence or   machine learning. Material Handling material  Transfer Machine loading and or unloading   spot welding continuous arc welding  spray coating assembly inspection. NLP applications. Okay, we saw that hot  it is extra page I should simulators. Okay machine learning. Machine learning adapt to learn from data to  optimize a performance function can be used to   extract Knowledge from data learn tasks that  are difficult to formalize create software that   improves over time. So we have seen that there  are many subdivisions of artificial intelligence   in this course, we will focus on machine  learning. This is one of the primary division of Artificial intelligence. It is extremely  importan,t extremely useful, and extremely   popular recently. So if you become an expert  in machine learning, you can get a job very   easily. You can complete many tasks with  easiness. It is like an ocean, okay. Machine learning machine learning  is programming computers to optimize   a performance criterion using  example data or past experience. Learning as used win human expertise  does not exist navigating on Mars   humans are unable to explain their expertise  speech recognition solution changes in time   routing on a computer network solution needs to  be adapted to particular cases user Biometrics for   kids of learning he can for example at playing  again, playing against humans in Dota 2 game. You can't quote. An infinite number of variables or infinite  number of situations. It can only learn on adapt. By playing many many many games  and improved its gameplay. So it is also for example another case of  learning machine learning. Okay, there are   four different. That's a methodologist  one methodology supervisor learning in supervised learning, you provide  labeled data, in unsupervised learning   there is data and it learns  according to the rules you define. Discrete and continuous discrete   is classification of categorization unsupervised  learning at this case is clustering continues is   regulation and unsupervised continuous  system national debt reduction. We will   have more information about them in the future  lessons. Let's continue machine learning   classification applications, classification is one  of the most used application of machine learning. And we use classification in so many  areas and let's look some of them. Face recognition pose lighting occlusion glasses   beard makeup hairstyle character recognition  different handwriting Styles speech recognition   temporal dependency use of a dictionary  or the syntax of the language   Sensor Fusion combine multiple modalities.  EG visual lip image and acoustic for speech   medical diagnosis from symptoms to illnesses web  advertising predict if a user clicks on an ad On the internet. Okay. So in face recognition  how classification is done you you know,   if you want to recognize something  you have to have information about   the surface recognition means  that computer scans the face   and make that face into the one of the people it  has in its database. So basically you classify. A picture of face into one of the  classes in this case classes are   humans that are predetermined  and preset in that database. So each recognize that face either belongs to  a person a or person b or person c how many   among you have. Character recognition. It classifies character   into one of the characters in its database for  example, in English characters. It recognize   which character is that character.  So, it still classification among   a number of determinate classes. Speech recognition. Same, this time is recognized which word is  being talked. So, each it classifies words each   class 5 sounds into the words that it has in its.  Medical diagnosis once again it. Classified illness in one of  the illnesses it has among. in this classes web advertising. This  prediction. It means that either it will click   or not or a either the click was January  from a really interested person or automated click. So you see there  are two classes in these examples. okay, training of examples of a person so  you see there are four classes in this case   and it trains examples of a person so we provide  these images to the machine and it builds and model   for this person saw them when we provide  each of these images that model outputs that This image belongs to this  person. So from the training model   it it it classify the image into one  of the classes. It has in its database. Okay expert systems. The term expert system has used in a paper by  Alan Turing in 1937 related to a study in AI. An expert system s is a computer program  that reasons using knowledge to solve   complex problems feigenbaum 1992. Traditionally computer solve complex  Problems by arithmetic calculations   and the knowledge to solve the problem  as only known by the human programmer. Okay, expect systems architectures there are experts, of course to build an expert   system. You have to have an expert in that  field because expert will provide knowledge   to the acquisition system. So you  will get new knowledge to from expert   and you will knowledge base and then your algorithms  your inference engine explanation system. will provide answers to that problem based  on the knowledge which obtains from experts   with the artificial intelligence algorithms  or static codings, genetic algorithms. A class of probabilistic optimization algorithms   inspired by the biological evolution process  originally developed by John Holland 1975.   So genetic algorithms are branching like this  search techniques, calculus based techniques.   So Calpers basic techniques branches into  direct methods indirect methods and you know,   Fibonacci and Newton, guided random search techniques,  enumerative techniques, evolutionary algorithms. Simulated annealing dynamic, programming additional  strategies, genetic algorithms, parallel, sequential   centralized, distributed to the steady-state and generational. Genetic algorithm some   application types.  Let's read time for example control. Control gas pipeline Paul balancing missile  evasion Pursuit. And so in this application   types each value control. You control gas  pipeline. What does that mean? That means you   let the gas go through the pipes certain amount  you calculate how much you need to provide. gas to the system based on perhaps the  previous data for balancing missile   division how to evased from a missile.  you control the direction of your craft or pursuit  of a let's say an autonomous vehicle. Design. Semiconductor layout aircraft design keyboard  configuration communication networks. For example,   on Semiconductor layout it is extremely important  to use that board efficiently. You have to put   conductor lines on that board with maximum efficiency to   get the maximum profit to  spend the least amount of resources so in design is extremely important  scheduling, scheduling is also another important   task you have to use your available  resources with maximum efficiency   such as your cars or your trains. Manufacturing  facility scheduling resource allocation. Trajectory planning, machine learning... Designing neural networks, improving  classification algorithms classifier   systems filter design in Signal processing in  game playing poker Checkers prisoner's dilemma.   come in authorial optimization. combinatorial optimization: set covering traveling salesman routing bin  packing graph coloring and partitioning.   Okay, information retrieval is  also another important aspect for artificial intelligence goal goal equals find documents relevant to an  information need from a large document set.   One of the best example of information  retrieval is Google, Google scans   all of the web and tries to bring you the most  relevant information that you are searching for.  So, this is the best perhaps the  best example of information retrieval. Okay possible approaches. one string matching linear search in  documents slow difficult to improve two, indexing asterisk fast  flexible to further Improvement Okay, the next base IR information  reveable systems, document indexing   presentation keyboards and clearly indexing query   analysis representation keyword query  Revelation that presentation keyboards. Indexing. Indexes are used in every  application of big databases. You have   to have proper indexes. Otherwise,  you can access the data efficiently. When you learn and database management, you have to learn building proper and   efficient indexes in without indexing, you  can't have a big database. You can't manage   a database properly. So indexing  is used in every area of data. It's the same for information retrieval  systems as well as well planning, okay. the task of coming up with a sequence of actions  that will achieve a goal as called planning   it contains both how to take actions in the world  the search based problem solving agents and how to   represent objects relations and so on The Logical  planning agents scheduling Plus game playing Okay computer vision make computers understand  images and video for example, what kind of scene What kind of scene where are the  cars how far as the building? So, computer vision system should be able  to understand understand and answer each   of these questions. By computer vision  matters safety, health, security, comfort   fun, access. Basically, we need computer vision to  to have autonomous systems or to improve our jobs. easiness Okay. Okay, let's see some of the  computer vision applications. Optical character recognition very  popular. For example, our speeds radius   radar systems are already using optical  character recognition to recognize your   car plate and if you are  going with over speed they And they issue. They issue fee to you. So you have to pay that. Or technology Converse color text docs to text for  example, Google uses this alert for Google books. For face detection in this case. It just   try to focus on the faces. So determine  what is face? How does it look? Neural networks, which is another massive area of   artificial intelligence and it's  also part of machine learning. A mathematical model to solve engineering  problems group of Highly connected neurons to   realize compositions of nonlinear functions. Yeah.  This is important. Nonlinear functions. Tasks. It is basically used for almost every tasks  tasks classification discrimination estimation. Okay, then are two types of networks  two types of networks feed-forward   neural networks recurrent neural networks.  That's how some information about them. A feed-forward neural network is an artificial  neural network where in connections between the   nodes do not form a cycle one as such it  is different from its descendant recurrent   neural networks. The feed-forward neural network  was the first and simplest type of artificial   neural network devised to in this network. The  information moves in Only One Direction forward   from the input nodes through the hidden nodes.  If any and to the output nodes, there are no Cycles or Loops in the network  so it gets the data from input layers   in the hidden layers. The data is progress  it to other layers and in the output layer,   it produces an output. This is feed-forward  neural network. We will see about neural networks   in future lessons and let's have an idea about  recurrent neural network. Recurrent neural network. Okay. Okay, let's read it. A recurrent neural network. RNN is a class of  artificial neural networks where connections   between nodes form a directed graph along  a temporal sequence. This allows it to   exhibit temporal Dynamic Behavior derived from  feed-forward. Neural networks rnns can use their   internal state memory to process variable length  sequences of inputs. One, two, three. This makes   them applicable to tasks such as unsegmented  connected handwriting recognition for or speech. ignition five six the term recurrent neural  network is used in discriminately to refer   to two broad classes of networks with a similar  General structure where one has finite impulse   and the other is infinite impulse both classes  of networks exhibit temporal Dynamic Behavior   7 of finite impulse recurrent  Network as a directed acyclic   graph that can be unrolled and replaced  with a strictly feed-forward neural network   while an infinite impulse recurrent Network  as a directed cyclic graph that cannot not be unrolled both finite impulse and  infinite impulse recurrent networks can   have additional stored State and the storage can  be under Direct Control by the neural network.   The storage can also be replaced by another  Network or graph if that incorporates time delays   or has feedback loops such controlled states are  referred to as gated state or gated memory and are   part of long short term memory networks LSD Ms.  And gated recurrent units. This is also called back neural network fnn unfolded basic recurrent neural network So this is how it is. It has  a feedback as you can see. the Elman Network long short term memory units you see these are a pretty advanced stuff.  It takes a lot of time to understand them. let's see if there is a by the explanation of this Okay. Okay, let's open this page. Okay.   So, input layer hidden aid update as you can  see output layers changes the input layer. So, there is a back propagation Through  Time an algorithm uses for updating   base in the recurrent neural network  to minimize the error of the network   outputs for every recurrent network carries a  feed-forward network with identical Behavior. Okay, so the network can be trained by  backpropagation. This is really important.  for example, you provide a you provide a data  set with correct labels. until the system   classifies each of these data into the correct  labels it back propagates and update its weights. To improve its accuracy.   We will have more information about this and the  future so just have basic idea at the moment. Okay. Okay for today, this is enough. I  will be uploading all of these to our   GitHub repository. I will also  post on our LMS system of school. Our GitHub repositories this one I will show you. Let's compose PDF or only version. Also, okay, there is only the pdf version. Okay. I'm just closing this and  let's show our GitHub repository. I will be also posting your project on here. I give a semester project for the entire  semester. I will also upload that from maybe a few weeks later not right now. Okay, this is our repository.  I'm going to upload the file. Let's move to okay this one. Okay. You can come to my room and visit me ask me  your questions. You can email me as shown here.   You can ask me. Any questions you want related to lesson  as an attendance as a course attendance.   I want every one of you to watch an  entire videos of courses and mechanics   and detailed a comment about that lesson.  I will be posting information related to that.   Hopefully see you next week. Stay safe.  Try to avoid it from a crowded place. as digital covid-19 outbreak. Hopefully see you next week. 