 John Iskander: Good afternoon. And welcome to our January 2020 Public Health Grand Rounds on pathogen genomics. I'm Dr. John Iskander with CDC's Office of Science. Thank you very much for joining us. Public Health Grand Rounds has free continuing education available for physicians, nurses, pharmacists, veterinarians, health educators, and others. The course code you'll need is PHGR10. Please see either our website or the CDC continuing education website for more details. And here is our continuing education disclosure statement for this session: Please note that brand names, images, and trademarks are used for identification purposes only. Grand Rounds is available on the web and on all your favorite social media sites. Please send questions to grandrounds@CDC.gov and we'll include your question during our Q&A part of today's session. Want to know more? New this month, we have a featured podcast on our website called Beyond the Data, which is posted after the session. We've also partnered with CDC's Public Health Library to feature scientific articles about this session, and the full listing is available at CDC.gov/scienceclips. For those of you who have not read Watson and Crick and Rosalind Franklin's original papers on the structure of DNA, we have posted these to the Grand Rounds website, along with a glossary of terms related to advanced molecular detection that we've developed in conjunction with the program. For those of you in the room, we also have hard copies of that glossary available. In addition to our outstanding speakers, I'd also like to acknowledge the important contributions of the individuals listed here, particularly Luciann Draper. Here's a previous of upcoming Grand Rounds topics. Please join us live or on the web at your convenience. It's now my pleasure to introduce CDC's Deputy Director for Infectious Diseases, Dr. Jay Butler. [ Applause ]  Jay Butler: Well, thank you, Dr. Iskander. Welcome, everyone. We last talked about advanced molecular detection or AMD at Public Health Grand Rounds in December of 2013. As you will hear today, a lot can change in six years. Advancement in bioinformatics and the science of proteomics and genomics and all the other -nomics has transformed how disease surveillance and outbreak investigations are conducted across the public health enterprise, not only here at CDC but as you'll hear today in state and local health departments as well. Bringing these technologies collectively called next-generation sequencing to the public health front has required a perfect storm of alignment in leadership, funding, and technical expertise. I have to add Dr. Iskander's historical perspective of Watson and Crick, it was 25 years ago the entire sequenced 1.8 million base pair genome of the bacterium Haemophilus influenzae was published -- a project that took about a year to complete. As these technologies have advanced, speed and throughput activity have increased and costs have fallen. For example, just during the period from 2001 to 2013, the cost to sequence a million base pair segment fell from over $5,000 to about 5 cents. Thankfully our TSP accounts have held up better than that. Meanwhile, the number of base pairs that could be sequenced in a day rose from 50,000 to over 60 billion. As we'll hear today, sequencing the entire genomes of pathogens has now become routine. Existing public health infrastructure such as PulseNet is rapidly transitioning. We'll hear additional examples of how sequencing technologies are applied to several types of infectious diseases from our speakers today. The transformation of public health through advanced molecular detection will require changes not only in lab workflows, but also in the entire public health workforce as we expand the capacity of public health to manage the huge amounts of data generated by these technologies. I want to thank you for joining us today, thank our speakers for being with us. And I look forward to how they'll provide a view of what public health will increasingly look like in the coming decades. Thank you. [ Applause ]  John Iskander: Thank you very much, Dr. Butler. Our first speaker is Duncan MacCannell. [ Applause ]  Duncan MacCannell: Good afternoon. My name is Duncan MacCannell, and I serve as the chief science officer for CDC's Advanced Molecular Detection Program. It's an honor to be presenting here today. As Dr. Butler said, it's been just over six years since we first presented at Public Health Grand Rounds. And at the time the AMD program was a newly-proposed initiative in the president's budget. And our presenters were focused on the vast potential of emerging laboratory technologies such as next-generation sequencing and the applications of bioinformatics and scientific computing to advance and protect public health. The Advanced Molecular Detection Program or AMD was established in 2014 as a $30 million a year public health laboratory innovation program with an aim to improve pathogen detection and characterization; to enable new diagnostic methods; to establish coordinated, sustainable, and well-integrated genomics and bioinformatics capacity across the public health system; and to apply these technologies for improved surveillance, outbreak response, modeling, and prediction of infectious disease threats. Today we'd like to talk about some of the progress we've made since then with a specific focus on the public health applications of pathogen genomics. So what do we mean by pathogen genomics? Microbial genomes range in size from a few thousand to hundreds of millions or even billions of base pairs in length. Up until about a decade ago, sequencing was a limited and time-consuming process, and it was challenging to use as a frontline technology, especially at the scale that many public health programs required. In general, it was a good but expensive fit for pathogens with small well-conserved genomes or well-defined regions of interest. But a single sequencing reaction just captured just a tiny fraction of the genomic information that was there -- in the case of an average bacterial genome, less than 100th of a percent. NGS allows public health scientists to look across the entire pathogen genome to understand what virulence or any microbial resistance genes might be there to better understand disease transmission and potential sources of exposure, and to examine other features in the genome that might impact public health investigation or response. With the introduction of NGS, the cost of sequencing decreased dramatically and these new sequencing approaches could be used to generate massive amounts of data for virtually any organism or biological sample by sequencing many thousands or even millions of nucleic acid molecules at once. But why is next-generation sequencing such an exciting technology for public health? The first thing to understand is that NGS is an incredibly powerful, amazingly flexible, and almost universally applicable technology. This is very unusual in public health microbiology. Because public health labs deal with so many different types of pathogens and so many different testing scenarios, the molecular techniques that they rely on are often highly specialized. By contrast, NGS workflows are increasingly universal and can be performed almost anywhere -- from a well-equipped lab at CDC headquarters to a temporary lab out in the field. As the sequence data comes off the instrument, it can be analyzed by bioinformaticians using high-performance computing systems. They can analyze and compare these sequences using a growing repertoire of bioinformatic tools and pipelines. And they can work with epidemiologists and other public health professionals to integrate information from other data sources and determine the best course of action for public -- the best course of public health action. The other important thing to understand is that public health scientists can get lots of useful information from a single sequencing run: They can definitively identify and characterize pathogens; they can flag them for known markers of virulence and antimicrobial resistance; and they can use high-resolution genotyping for phylogenetic analysis of potential outbreak clusters, often all from the same dataset. And by comparing these sequences to what is already known, they can predict phenotypes; they can build important new global databases of emerging and important strains; and they can use these data to build new, better diagnostics and therapeutics. As we'll see later on, NGS is starting to replace or enhance many traditional approaches and is beginning to redefine what is possible in public health surveillance and outbreak response. Just to give you some idea of the breadth here, this is a rough list of the types of projects that the AMD program has worked on over the past year. These range in scale from large-scale transformative projects like PulseNet and seasonal influenza surveillance to small high-risk, high-reward projects that we call incubator projects. Because the AMD program is so cross-cutting, we're able to focus on impact and innovation. We can be strategic about these investments; coordinating across activities; introducing new technologies and partnerships; and building shared systems, simplified infrastructure, and sharing knowledge wherever possible. But let's zoom in for a second and look at a specific application. At the very front lines of influenza surveillance and outbreak response where CDC's influenza genomics and diagnostic team has been working on portable sequencing platforms that can be deployed virtually anywhere, including as shown here at the livestock pens at a major animal exhibition, just the type of setting where animal-to-human transmission is a potential public health concern. The team was able to take existing influenza sequencing protocols which normally require a full, well-resourced reference laboratory, and adapt them to run in the field on portable, nanopore-based sequencing devices. These sequencing instruments that were used in this field test are about the size of a chocolate bar. And all of the necessary lab equipment and supplies to run the protocol fit in several large cases and coolers that can be deployed quickly in the field. For an outbreak investigation, having this kind of high-quality, real-time sequence information from the front lines is a complete game-changer when it comes to understanding and preventing influenza transmission. So how are -- how are the state public health labs doing at implementing NGS-based methods? In 2013, back before the AMD program really took off, only a handful of laboratories had NGS capacity. By 2015, thanks in large part to AMD and aligned funding, over half the labs had sequencers. And by 2018, all 50 states had local sequencing capacity. One of the key drivers for this expansion was surveillance for foodborne bacterial disease. And today nearly all states are actively sequencing as part of PulseNet or -- and FDA genome tracker. But many states have started to apply NGS to other infectious disease applications of local, regional, or national concern. Some of these priorities include healthcare-associated infections and antimicrobial resistance; viral hepatitis; legionella; and tuberculosis. As state sequencing capacity has evolved, the AMD program has worked with programs and key partners to provide the necessary funding, training, and technical assistants to navigate their transition to NGS-based methods. But sequencing is often the easy part. One of the most important new challenges has been the development of standardized and reproducible bioinformatics in data management capacity across the public health system. Many labs just don't have the necessary IT infrastructure, bioinformatics, and scientific computing expertise that are needed to analyze and manage the volumes of pathogen sequence data that they are now capable of generating. The CDC APHL Bioinformatics Fellowship Program, now in its sixth year, has been an incredibly effective tool to connect new bioinformatic graduates with state and public health -- federal public health laboratories. Recently, AMD also established regional training and support networks to begin to develop laboratory and bioinformatic skills across the public health workforce. And the State Public Health Bioinformatics Group or StaPH-B has also an enormous benefit to national capacity-building, providing users with an active and thriving virtual community to support their learning and development needs. AMD has been helping to drive both consensus and innovation, establishing new partnerships and consortia with the global microbial genomics community and engaging with academic and private sector partners on new and cutting-edge technology and applications. And we've been working to close the gap between existing open source software development and the robust sustainable tools and workflows that the global public health community needs to put these powerful new technologies into action. NGS represents a fundamental shift in public health and clinical microbiology, requiring sustained investments in laboratory, IT, and workforce innovation. The AMD program has enabled CDC and its partners to leverage these technologies and incorporate them into routine practice, making the important work that we do faster, better, and with the most advanced tools and resources available. With so much change and so many new challenges, it's an incredibly exciting time to be in public health. Our next speakers will talk about how NGS is being used for large-scale molecular surveillance and how implementation of NGS is working at the state and local level. With that, I'd like to introduce Dr. Heather Carleton. [ Applause ]  Heather Carleton: Thank you, Duncan. My name is Heather Carleton. I'm the team lead for the bioinformatics and metagenomics team in the Enteric Disease Laboratory branch. And I'll be talking to you today about applications of next-generation sequencing to foodborne disease prevention. So in the United States, one in six Americans will get a foodborne illness each year. And a subset of these sick people will go to their doctor and a sample will be collected to identify the cause of illness. This sample is sent to a clinical or a diagnostic lab that performs the identification. And if the cause of illness is an enteric bacteria like Salmonella, Shiga toxin-producing E. Coli, Listeria, Campylobacter, a sample of that bacteria will be sent to the state or local public health lab for molecular subtyping. The molecular subtyping information that's generated will then be sent to the CDC as part of the PulseNet network and compared to other fingerprints from across the United States. So if you're not familiar with PulseNet, PulseNet is a distributed molecular surveillance network for foodborne illnesses. Public health laboratories in all 50 states as well as some local and federal laboratories are participants. Within the PulseNet network, all participants use a standardized laboratory method, and they use this both for molecular surveillance and outbreak detection. For public health labs like the ones generated here, they generate their molecular fingerprints using our current gold standard technique called genome sequencing. And then the data of these molecular fingerprints are transmitted to a centralized database at CDC in Atlanta, Georgia. PulseNet monitors for clusters of illnesses with the same molecular fingerprint. Once they identify clusters of illnesses that -- that match, that have that same fingerprint, they tell epidemiologists about these clusters to investigate. Bacteria with the same fingerprint are assumed to more likely come from the same outbreak source. So PulseNet saved the US economy over half a billion dollars in medical costs and lost productivity per year. PulseNet also has a high return on investment -- with $1 spent, $70 are saved. And PulseNet prevents over 270,000 illnesses from Salmonella, E. Coli, and Listeria every year. And this is with our previous gold standard technique, pulse-field gel electrophoresis. With this transition to whole genome sequencing, greater impact on disease prevention and savings is expected because more cases will be linked with more precision using whole genome sequencing. So PulseNet recently went through a transition in its gold standard technique for molecular subtyping, as I mentioned, from pulse-field gel electrophoresis to whole genome sequencing. And you can see on this image here we went from a technology that gave us a resolution per strain of about 50 to 30 bands per isolate on a gel to 2 million to 5 million base pairs by whole genome sequencing. So there's several orders of magnitude more data. In addition to giving us the -- this sequence, so the code of the bacteria will also -- whole genome sequencing also tells us information about serotype and microbial resistance and virulence. And the reason we went to whole genome sequencing is with WGS data, you can detect more outbreaks with more precision. And this can lead to more effective outbreak investigations and trace that. So we use whole genome sequencing to help put together the picture of a foodborne outbreak. Through molecular surveillance by whole genome sequencing, PulseNet is able to link cases that may have been exposed to the same outbreak source, originating from potentially multiple states across the US. And once again, that fingerprint -- if they share the same fingerprint, they're more likely to come from the same source. Once a potential outbreak cluster has been identified, epidemiologists collect exposure information conducted by case interviews with patients, including looking at what food they ate in the past week or month, where they traveled, and other potential exposures. When a food is identified as a potential outbreak source, CDC works with federal regulatory partners including FSIS, USDA, and FDA to trace back the food to a particular field or production facility. We work closely with our federal partners to put together the picture of foodborne illness. Here is an example of one of the first outbreaks we characterized using whole genome sequencing data. It's an outbreak caused by the bacteria Listeria monocytogenes. If you're not you're not familiar with it, Listeria monocytogenes is a bacteria associated with severe disease in pregnant mothers, older adults, and those with weakened immune systems. We perform whole genome sequencing on all the isolates linked by the previous fingerprinting technique, PFGE. Using whole genome sequencing, we were able to create phylogenetic tree like is shown here on this slide of all the isolates with that same pattern. Via whole genome sequencing, we were able to get a better picture of the outbreak. We compared current clinical cases that were known to have an exposure to the potential outbreak source, and they're shown in red; environment isolates from the suspected facility that were collected over multiple years, and those are shown as the cheese and the -- the black gray color there; and historic clinical isolates with the same PFGE fingerprint in blue. And we can see that whole genome sequencing was able to link cases from the facility, current clinical cases, and historical clinical cases. And that's highlighted in that bluish-green box there. And this indicates that the contamination might have occurred over multiple years. The study and others like it led us to look at outbreaks differently and find potential cases associated with ongoing outbreaks from previous years. By using whole genome sequencing in this outbreak, we were able to trace back the outbreak to a cheese producer in Wisconsin. And this outbreak was associated with six illnesses and hospitalizations in five states, including one fetal loss and one death associated with the outbreak. And the cheese manufacturer voluntarily recalled their contaminated product. So in addition to helping us look at outbreaks in new ways, whole genome sequencing is helping us link cases that may be associated with reoccurring, emerging, and persisting strains. So previously with that less precise technique, PFGE, we would have oftentimes many of the same pattern in our database occurring over multiple years with no way to link potential cases that may have been exposed to the same outbreak source. With whole genome sequencing, now we can link fingerprints with more precision and identify trends that we could not identify otherwise, for example, here the blue -- dark blue fingerprints that occur around the same time every year. And we've applied whole genome sequencing to -- to look at some of these long-term strains we see in our database. So we use whole genome sequences -- whole genome sequencing to link cases of E. Coli 157:H7 that occurred over a four-year period. If you're not familiar with E. Coli 157:H7, it causes severe gastrointestinal illness, which can lead to kidney disease known as hemolytic uremic syndrome or HUS. Here we're showing phylogenetic tree of cases associated with this particular strain. And it's -- so all the isolates on the tree are represented by the different-colored boxes. And the different-colored boxes are also associated with different years or outbreak events. You can see here it's labeled with six genetic differences. E. Coli has a 5 million base pair genome, so this is relatively few genetic differences when you look across the entire genome. And when you also look at the cases on a histogram looking at -- at them as they occur over time, in the first half of the year and the second half of the year from 2016 to 2019, you can see over this four-year period that you have an increase in the number of cases in the second half of the year. And this is really in the later half of the second half of the year, every year. And we were able to go back and link these cases to leafy greens to a single growing region in Santa Maria. Here's another example of how we use whole genome sequencing to help outbreak prevention efforts. So this is an E. Coli 0157 outbreak where infections were linked to romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region. Whole genome sequencing linked together 22 different PFG patterns in two main branches of the tree, which is highlighted by the greenish-blue box here, traced back to two dozen farms showed that they were all related, reflecting widespread contamination in the region. And we were able to confirm that E. Coli 0157 isolated from the irrigation canal, which is those isolates in blue here, were closely genetically matched to the main outbreak strains from the clinical isolates. And showed that isolates were -- whole genome sequencing also showed that isolates from previous years were closely genetically related. And this investigation led to new public health action. So the contaminated lettuce was recalled. There's now a -- a new requirement in the Leafy Green Marketing Agreement for farmers to sanitize surface waters used to do overhead irrigation during the last 21 days of production. And now you can see on your bag of romaine lettuce that you might buy at the grocery store, the label with the growing region it came from and the date it was harvested. And these are all efforts to help prevent continued contamination by these different bacteria. So whole genome sequencing tells us more than just relatedness. So previously to -- to characterize our enteric bacteria, we used many different phenotypic tests kind of illustrated in these pictures here. And now we can get much of that informing from a single test, whole genome sequencing. So the same test that gives us our relatedness information can tell us other information about our strains, such as identification of the organism; serotype; antibiotic resistance genes and mutations, which can be associated with harder to treat infections in virulence genes which can lead to more severe infection. And we get all this information at the same time we're detecting our foodborne outbreaks, which can better inform our response and public health action. To be able to determine the relatedness and pull out that -- that genotypic information, so that -- those kind of phenotipic inferences, PulseNet provides software and analysis engine for PulseNet members to use. When a state performs sequencing, they submit their sequences for whole genome sequencing to a high-performance computing system at the CDC that houses the analysis engine. After that analysis is complete, the state receives that information back in their state database for local cluster detection and then submits their analyzed results to the PulseNet national database for multistate cluster detection. The state also submits their sequenced data to a database housed at the NAH called NCBI. And this -- these data, along with others from all over the world, are shared so sequenced data can be compared across the world. But with these opportunities do come challenges. And one of the biggest challenges we faced is challenges with the amount of data in the PulseNet system. So PulseNet transmits about one to three terabytes of data per month. So one terabyte is one trillion bytes of data. And we receive a similar amount of data per month in our system that the Library of Congress receives per month. Another challenge is the complexity and number of computing jobs we receive. So we receive over 40,000 computing jobs per week. And a computing job is equivalent to one analysis and varies in complexity from a quick database search to -- that takes seconds -- to an assembly that can take one to two hours. And another challenge we faced is that state and local public health labs have greatly differing IT resources. So Internet connections at states can range from mere dial-up speeds at less than one megabyte per second to fast broadband connections that transfer over 100 megabytes per second. And several states and local laboratories represented in -- in red here, have Internet speeds that present challenges for doing outbreak detection using whole genome sequencing. But even with these challenges, we do have those -- those benefits of detecting foodborne outbreaks with more precision, and that states receive both their genotyping and molecular fingerprint results to detect local outbreaks and better prevent in -- prevent disease and protect health, both in their state databases. And then we use this data on the national level as well to detect multistate outbreaks. So for the future PulseNet. With this transition to whole genome sequencing, PulseNet will be able to detect outbreaks with more precision. The transition was made possible with the initial investments we received through AMD. And even moving beyond whole genome sequencing, PulseNet is continuing to innovate by applying novel technologies like metagenomics to characterize foodborne pathogens directly from patient samples. And thank you very much. And now I'm going turn over the talk to Dr. Lauren Turner. [ Applause ]  Lauren Turner: Hi, I'm Lauren Turner. I'm the lead scientist for the Implementation of Next-Generation Sequencing for Advanced Pathogen Characterization at the Virginia State Laboratory, Division of Consolidated Lab Services or DCLS for short. DCLS is the consolidated state laboratory for the Commonwealth of Virginia that provides public health, environmental, agricultural, and consumer product testing services to more than 26 Virginia localities, state agencies, and federal partners. DCLS has a broad scope of testing services that range from newborn screening for metabolic and hereditary disorders for all babies born in Virginia to emergency response, food safety, environmental, and clinical testing. DCLS is the reference laboratory for microbiology testing in Virginia, and as such receives cultures for identification, as well as specimens and samples according to the Virginia regulations for reportable diseases. DCLS also partners with epidemiologists to provide testing for patients with suspected outbreak association. Three advanced molecular detection methods for surveillance and outbreak detection we use to subcategorize pathogens by type, subtype, virulence profiles, and PFG DNA fingerprint type, which was used to compare DNA fragmentation patterns between pathogens from different people and sources. Constraints with this process were cost; time-intensive testing; loss of institutional knowledge; and limited resolution to differentiate between strains, which limited the accuracy, reliability, and timelessly of these long-standing surveillance approaches. Federal government initiatives, which we have heard about today, to adopt next-generation sequencing is the primary method for pathogen surveillance and to inform outbreak investigations demonstrated the superiority of whole genome sequencing, here abbreviated as WGS, as compared to pre-whole genome sequencing surveillance in regard to the aforementioned limitations of accurately detecting clusters of illness, detecting clusters sooner, and solving outbreaks by identifying the source of the outbreak. Most notable is the large increase in the number of cases of foodborne illnesses linked to specific food source by whole genome sequencing, which increases the possibility of preventive actions such as recalls of adulterated food products. The distribution of federal funding to states was critical for the adoption of advanced molecular detection technologies in public health laboratories. Gaining access to next-generation sequencing instrumentation, testing supplies, and training resources has helped DCLS to modernize testing, stay in step with national programs, and to also identify Virginia-specific needs for next-generation sequencing implementation. DCLS's primary goals for advanced molecular detection implementation included developing on-site expertise and computational resource capacity for analysis of large datasets, commonly referred to as big data that are produced by next-generation sequencing; and also utilizing bioinformatics to replace or supplement existing methods for pathogen identification and typing, outbreak detection, and source attribution. Implementation of advanced molecular detection technologies at DCLS began as a foodborne initiative as part of larger network-driven initiatives coordinated by the FDA genome tracker and CDC PulseNet programs. DCLS began generating whole genome sequencing data in 2013 and along with other public health laboratories participated in a multiyear project to transition to a whole genome sequencing-based foodborne surveillance system beginning in 2014. This project was realized in 2019 when whole genome sequencing became the sole method for foodborne pathogen surveillance in Virginia and nationally. The significant investment and robust, accurate, and standardized bioinformatics workflows by the CDC and development of state interfaces for access to calculation engines for data analytics have enabled states like Virginia to perform on-site comparative genomics of pathogen data for local foodborne cluster of illness surveillance. Next-generation sequencing infrastructure that is now in place has provided a launching point for DCLS to apply this technology to other infectious conditions. At DCLS, next-generation sequencing capacity was progressively built over several years. Early benchmarks in 2013 were acquiring instrumentation and developing proficiency and sequencing protocols. Increased testing in 2014 to 2015 made workforce development a priority and led to the development of an internal training program for increased scientist coverage and capacity for nucleic acid extraction and sequencing. Early on, DCLS generated data but did not have the capacity to analyze this data on site. In 2016, DCLS began to focus on dissolving state lab capacity for bioinformatics. This required identifying scientists with bioinformatics knowledge, skills, and abilities that could be leveraged by the lab and harnessing infrastructure for the computational analysis of data. Between 2017 and 2019 we also saw the expansion of next-generation sequencing to non-foodborne diseases, including tuberculosis, healthcare-associated infections, and drug-resistant pathogens. There are many examples of how next-generation sequencing data have informed public health response. I'm going to describe briefly a view -- a few Virginia-specific examples. In 2014 we saw firsthand the advantages of next-generation sequencing for outbreak source tracking when we partnered with Maryland and the CDC on an investigation of a cluster of severe Listeriosis illnesses among eight people, including two newborn infants that were infected in utero. Listeria isolated from some of these patients is indicated here in red lettering. Cheese implicated by the Maryland patients was collected from a Virginia retailer and tested positive for Listeria monocytogenes at DCLS. Sequencing of Listeria isolated from the cheese samples shown here in yellow lettering showed genetic relatedness with isolates from the patients, providing genomic evidence that the cheese was the source of the outbreak. This is indicated by the close grouping of the cheese in patient samples on the branches of this tree and the minimal genetic differences between the pathogens. These findings informed further regulatory actions to recall the cheese and address issues at the point of manufacture that led to this contamination. We have also applied next-generation sequencing to investigate disease outbreaks in healthcare settings. In healthcare-associated outbreaks, there are several questions that need to be addressed to inform infection control and prevention, which include whether transformation is restricted to a single facility or may be occurring between facilities; whether the infectious strain is regionally or locally persistent; and if asymptomatic healthcare providers might be inadvertently infecting patients. DCLS applied next-generation sequencing to investigate regional invasive group A streptococcus outbreaks over a four-year period, including two concurrent outbreaks in 2014 to determine the answers to these questions. We collaborated with the CDC and other state public health laboratories for the development of an analytical workflow for the group A streptococcus genetic sequences. The analysis of this genetic data across institutions from 2013 to 2017 indicated that the two outbreaks that were occurring at the same time were unrelated. Thus, transmission between these facilities was not a factor in these outbreaks, as shown by the demarcation of samples from the two facilities A and B. The facility outbreaks were also distinct from historical outbreaks, suggesting that illness was not due to a common strain or infectious point. And this information was used to target epidemiology resources towards the most likely source of these outbreaks within these facilities independent of each other. Beyond outbreak detection, DCLS has also developed programs that can be used to identify a pathogen from the sequencing reads generated. In the future these software may be used to adopt next-generation sequencing as the primary test to provide pathogen identification, subtyping information, and pathogen trait predictions in addition to outbreak detection. It is important to note that despite these successes, the emerging use of next-generation sequencing has presented new challenges to state public health laboratories. These include developing scientist capacity to perform testing; manage equipment; sustain testing operations; and to analyze results. The need for next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics have also revealed limitations of public health laboratory information technology infrastructure for the transmission and storage of large amounts of genome data and computational resources, as well as policies to support the use of these resources. States have had to adopt many different strategies to overcome these obstacles and no one solution has worked for all states. Some have formed new partnerships with universities or commercial cloud providers for cost-efficient access to computers for data analysis; others have built on-site infrastructure and expertise for managing hard -- soft -- hardware. Informed guidance through CDC partnerships has provided an exceptional opportunity for modernization of the public health lab infrastructure and testing services. Virginia and other states have also benefited from CDC's strategic funding of state bioinformatics resources that are assigned regionally within the United States. These regional contacts provide subject matter expertise and guidance from the perspective of a state public health lab to support workforce development for bioinformatics and work with state contacts to identify solutions for computational data analysis. Novel partnerships with universities have also been used to develop collaborative training programs for the public health lab workforce for next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics. Integration of next-generation sequencing technologies in capacity for testing and data analytics have catalyzed the expansion of advanced molecular detection by state laboratories to focus on emerging pathogens in critical jurisdictional needs, which is transforming how states approach infectious disease detection, surveillance, and response. There are states in the United States developed advanced molecular detection capacity for each of the conditions shown here and more. So much progress has been made in the past five years. Looking to the future, new tools for integration of next-generation sequencing data and visualization of results to aid in communication with interdisciplinary laboratory, epidemiology, and regulatory teams are needed. Also, data-sharing agreements to capitalize on work across the public health and laboratory community, especially as more sequencing is performed in clinical laboratories for patient diagnosis and care. More definitive guidance is needed for clinical diagnostic use of next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics so that accredited laboratories can replace traditional laboratory tests with advanced molecular detection tests. And as more laboratory tests are moving away from isolating pathogens and moving towards detecting the presence of a pathogen in a sample, public health laboratories are also looking toward applying next-generation sequencing directly to the sample types they will receive in the future. Finally, ensuring utilization of next-generation sequencing data through workforce training of epidemiologists and regulatory officials is a key priority for the future to make sure that we can capitalize on the investments that have been made in advanced molecular detection technologies. And with that, I'm going to hand it off to our next speaker, Dr. Greg Armstrong. [ Applause ]  Gregory Armstrong: Thank you. Hello, I'm Gregory Armstrong. I'm the director of the AMD Program here at CDC. The last three presentations gave a sense of how next-generation sequencing, bioinformatics, and related technologies -- what we collectively call AMD technologies -- have become a core part of infectious practice in the US public health system. When we last presented at Public Health Grand Rounds in 2013, the AMD Program was just beginning and there was very little capacity for next-generation sequencing or bioinformatics here. Today in 2020 we're in a very different position. Next-generation sequencing is now in use in all of CDC's infectious disease laboratories. The agency has robust bioinformatics capacity. And in our laboratories, there's widespread expertise in microbial genomics. Outside of CDC, all state public health laboratories now have sequencing capacity and there's a growing network of state-based bioinformaticians. In short, AMD technologies are now being used across the spectrum of infectious diseases of -- of public health importance. So what's next for AMD? First, the field of microbial genomics is continuing to advance at a rapid rate, opening many new opportunities to improve health. For now, there's still much that we can do to adapt current next-generation sequencing technologies to public health priorities. In addition, new technologies such as nanopore sequencing are showing promise and are already in use for niche applications. Metagenomics, which in our context mostly means the ability to sequence directly from specimens, has the potential to address certain problems such as the increasing use of culture-independent diagnostic tests in clinical settings, which is impairing our ability to obtain cultured isolates. Finally, to take -- to make the most use of this genomic data, we need to be able to integrate it with the related epidemiologic data and to analyze and visualize both together. CDC's data modernization initiative has the potential to enable and accelerate this integration. So with that, we'll stop here and take questions. Actually, let me turn to Susan first to see if there are any questions online.  We have several questions coming in. And I want to remind our audiences from online to send your email to grandrounds@CDC.gov. So let's start with one went specific to Duncan. Says, "Is CDC looking at cloud-based bioinformatics solutions, and what are the security challenges?" And that's from Brian at New York State.  Duncan MacCannell: Thanks, Brian. How much time do we have [Laughs]? Working in government, access to cloud services has been a historic challenge. Not only are there contractual challenges to obtaining cloud services because of the way that cloud services are structured, but there's also -- you know, it is an interesting area when it comes to compliance and ensuring that the data that we put out there is secure and appropriately accessed. I will say that the AMD program has been working on direct access to cloud service for some time. I think a lot of that is mirrored in a lot of the state activities. A lot of states have varying levels of access to cloud themselves. I think eventually the concept of using cloud computing for these resources, this is not going to be a scary concept going forward for -- for much longer hopefully. Many of the applications that we're looking at are ideal candidates for cloud computing. Outbreak investigations, for example, are very bursty in their -- in their computational needs. And so you don't -- it doesn't make sense to invest a lot in capital infrastructure. A lot of the data that we're putting out there -- a lot of sequence data at least is already being put into the public domain. So it's really the patient-specific data that we have to be careful about and ensure that we have appropriate access controls around that. So I guess the -- the short answer is we're marching towards the cloud. There's a lot of obstacles, but we still haven't reached it yet.  Thanks. This is Steve Monroe, Office of Laboratory Science and Safety at CDC. Thanks for nice presentations. I want to follow up on one of the last points that Greg Armstrong made about linking the AMD data with the epidemiologic data. And so one of the benefits that you've demonstrated here is the enhanced precision that comes from using a whole genome sequence versus some of the earlier techniques for pathogen characterization. And in terms of linking with epidemiologic data, what do you see as the need for more precision on the epidemiologic data that would allow you to -- to answer the questions that are coming to light with the use of the whole genome sequence data? So maybe for Heather or Lauren to speculate a bit on that.  Heather Carleton: I can start on that. So I think for the epidemiologic data, linking it to whole genome sequence data, as you mentioned, you have more precision. So you're more likely to be able to get to the potential source of an outbreak quicker if you have robust epidemiologic data. And many of our data systems that we use in epidemiology in some ways are -- are a bit antiquated. Some of them still use fax not so long ago. And a lot of times they exist in systems that are aren't compatible with the laboratory data. So I think with the -- the new data modernization opportunities here at the CDC, there -- there is that chance to bring in at the same time the epi data to be able to see the links for closely-related isolates in the whole genome sequence data, see the links to potential sources. And there's a lot of great tools out there for data visualization, not just the foodborne side but for many of our infectious diseases that really use the power of both whole genome sequencing and epidemiology to -- to get the most out of our data.  Lauren Turner: I agree with what Heather said. And we're already seeing some of the benefits of having broad-scale sequencing initiatives. So the FDA genome tracker program is really targeted towards sequencing not just food sources which are implicated by patients in outbreaks but broad-scale sequencing of global pathogen collections, university collections, and other types of repositories with the goal of being able to link together potential sources of outbreaks with cases at the time the outbreaks are occurring. I know when working with some of our epidemiologists that sometimes getting the right recall history for patients is very, very challenging. And so there are ways that we're hoping to use sequencing data to -- to better resolve those situations as well.  Just adding onto that quickly, you know, I think we're at an interesting point where the sequence data itself is fairly easy to generate. We can generate a lot of high-quality data fairly quickly. It's inherently a fairly digital format. So a lot of the processes around that are -- are getting much faster. We're getting much better at that. In order to actually leverage it for public health use, though, you need to be able to put it into context. You need to be able to link it with the epi data. And that inherently is a very analog process. You know, there's a lot of -- of free text that's involved in that, there's a lot of phone interviews, there's a lot of questions about what's in your fridge or what exposures or, you know, where did you go on vacation that can't necessarily be captured as easily in a digital format. I mean, there's a lot of things that need to happen in terms of IT modernization plumbing. And there's a lot of IT technologies that now that can help make that process easier, but there's still an inherent complexity, which is the unstructured nature of epi date and trying to that quickly into a format that can be merged.  Why don't we go online first.  We've had several requests on Facebook for the slide posting, and we always post our slides by Friday of Grand Rounds week. So you'll be able to see that as well as a recorded version of the session. I have a question from Dan in South Carolina: Can you explain how the relatedness of whole genome sequencing results -- sequencing results that may identify outbreak-related cases is balanced with background noises of expected, for example, Salmonella cases? It seems that without knowing the background, it may be difficult to determine causality.  That's a great question, I'll take a stab of it -- at it. So previously with PFGE, for a Salmonella serotype, let's say Salmonella entered into half of our database -- so that's about 5,000 isolates per Salmonella [inaudible] alone were the same PFGE patterns. So we had a huge background. And if you have that many isolates that all look the same by the molecular fingerprinting technique you're using, you're not going to be able to detect kind of the outbreak above the noise of the background unless it's a really large outbreak. But we want to stop outbreaks sooner before they become real large -- large outbreaks. So with whole genome sequencing, we're able to break apart that kind of multiple thousands isolates -- of isolates into separate potential outbreak clusters. There's still some background there. With whole genome sequence data, there will still be background cases. And with PFGE we had over 20 years of data. So we had a good idea of what the background looked like for PFGE technique. And with whole genome sequencing, we've been doing sequencing since 2014, and we've switched to whole genome sequencing alone in 2019. So we're still in that transition to get the background data. But we expect less background with whole genome sequencing because it's more precise technique. So we will be able to identify more outbreaks where we couldn't previously.  And if I -- if I could just add to that, the -- you know, so first off, between CDC's state health departments and FDA, there are well over 100,000 Salmonella isolates in the public databases alone. I'm sure there's actually quite a bit of experience already with -- you know, with sequencing these -- these pathogens. I mean, quite a large database. But in addition to that, you know, as an epidemiologist, you're -- you're never or you're rarely relying on a single source of data. A large part of epidemiology is integrating all that data and making sense of it. And for the epidemiologists, whole genome sequencing is -- is -- is another tool that they -- a very powerful tool, a very precise tool. But they -- they -- they almost never rely on that alone. They -- they -- they're -- they're always looking at the -- the -- the bigger picture. So why don't we go to the room for the next question?  Okay. Good afternoon. So [inaudible] from the Office of Genomics and Precision Public Health and the Office of Science. So congratulations, it's been an amazing trip over a few years. You probably know what I'm going to be asking, but let me ask it anyway. So the -- the microbial genomics doesn't work in a vacuum, there is the host genomics. And so the question which may be a futuristic question for discussion, especially at the state level when you have other programs like newborn screening and others that deal with the human genomics, do you all see a tragedy by which the human -- the host genomes could be integrated with the pathogen genomes to understand outbreaks better, maybe vaccine effectiveness, safety, and other odds and ends? And the second question: Where's the microbiome in all of this and the genome of the microbiome? Thank you.  You know, that's a very complex question. [ Laughter ] That's several complex questions. I mean, the best answer I can give you is that in many cases you need to walk before you run. And I think we've made a lot of big strides over the past five years. I think building up some of the basic capacity to start asking those questions is an important first step. Once you start introducing host species into the question, it becomes -- and microbiome into the question -- and both are increasingly common now in public health -- it increases the complexity by an order of magnitude. And a lot of those are starting to exist now in the research domain. For example, on the front of metagenomics, it's being used increasingly as a diagnostic for -- for various neuro inflammation cases and those sorts of things. But they've started looking at the host side to see whether they can actually look at immunogenomics, immunotranscriptomics and compare those profiles to see if they can predict what pathogen is likely there, even if it's something that they can't necessarily recover it directly. So I think those -- those are definitely coming. On the metagenomics front, there's a lot of keen interest in public health in looking at that because it's a -- it's a technology that, you know, can be broadly applied. You can look at -- you know, grind up vectors and look at what they carry. You can look at environmental samples. You can look at clinical samples, especially ones where the organism is either slow to grow or just recalcitrant and difficult to get at all. And so it is a -- an important approach that we -- many groups are evaluating. But I would still classify it pretty firmly in the research domain and not necessarily being used much beyond large -- small-scale studies.  And if I -- if I could just add to that. So the -- you know, in the AMD Program as -- as Duncan mentioned, when we first started out, we were actually quite a bit behind in this technology and had quite a lot of catching up to do. And -- and -- and I think we have caught up. But, you know, our -- our focus has really been on developing actionable data. And the low-hanging fruit in -- in that regard has -- has -- for us has been microbial genomic data. But we've certainly been looking at, you know, the -- other applications. So microbiome, for example, our hospital infections group is actually quite interested in -- in microbiome and has been doing some microbiome work and sponsoring some microbiome work in -- in academia largely focused on looking at the impact of antimicrobials on the diversity of -- of -- of the microbiome and how that might -- that might impact interventions to -- to prevent transmission in -- in -- in hospital settings. I think on -- on the human side, there -- there aren't as many immediate applications. The one that clearly comes to mind is -- is newborn screening. Newborn screening programs are already looking into and some are already doing -- are using next-generation sequencing as part of the screening that they do. And in fact, I -- I suspect that's going to be the next area where sequencing is used on a -- on -- on a large scale. The other applications that you talked about, for example, looking at factors that -- that may make people more susceptible to infectious disease, those are actually of quite a lot of interest to us but are -- from our perspective are a little bit further down the line. They -- they don't have that same -- they don't produce that same immediate actionable data that -- that public health can use, at least at this point. So it's not that -- that we're not interested in those, but we just haven't had the time and resources yet to -- to get around to them.  And I just want to add a little bit from the foodborne side, from the microbiome, that's definitely something we're interested in. We see ourselves going in the next few years because of culture-independent diagnostic tests that are routinely being used. Public health labs no longer get an isolate for doing this molecular subtyping. So they get samples. And wouldn't it be great if we could get that molecular fingerprint for the pathogen out of the sample rather than having to go through this time-consuming isolation process. So we're looking at techniques to do the molecular subtyping directly from stool. And a big part of that is the microbiome, which is also in the stool and in some cases can be very similar to the pathogens that we also are detecting in the stool. So it's definitely something we're looking in -- looking at. And then for the foodborne side, when I talk about virulence genes, that's just what affects the virulence on the -- the microbe side. But the on the human side a lot of times we know that there's differences in disease severity in patients. And it's not necessarily the bacteria that's causing the difference in disease severity, it's what's going on in host factors. And I -- I agree, this is something that we need to look further into.  And I'm sorry, we're -- we're out of time. I think we're right at the end of the hour. But for those of you in the room, we will be around afterwards. Let me hand things back to -- to Susan.  We have a quick question I want to get in before the end here. Hanan from Facebook, "Will you be applying next-generation sequencing for outbreak source tracking of coronaviruses?  So just as we're sitting here, the news item did cross my phone that -- of the first US case. So almost certainly, I guess, the answer -- very short answer.  So how -- how's that for a stay tuned? So I'd like to say thank you to my former colleague Dan in South Carolina. We worked together about a generation ago. Thank you for -- thank you for tuning in. Let's have a round of applause for our speakers. [ Applause ] And please join us next month for our Public Health Grand Rounds session on measles. Thank you. [ Applause ] 