 (upbeat light music) - I think that we bring an awful lot to the table for clients that are looking for cloud managed services and for cloud professional services. First, we've got an unbelievable history in this industry. We've been here from just about the beginning of the development of the channel organization, the partner organization, from the major vendors like IBM and Dell and DMC. And we developed a very large data center and infrastructure business that was oriented at enterprise-class customers. Over the years, we've diversified in a couple of ways that are meaningful for our clients. The first one is is that we created partnerships in the legacy space with everybody in the industry, practically. So it's no longer the case that you come into Sirius and you buy an IBM box. I mean, that's not the way we work anymore. So we've done that sort of diversification, by just adding logos of similar capabilities. Then we've also done sort of a Mode 2 diversification, where we've gone out and we've acquired companies that are like big data and analytics companies, like Brightlight, when we bought them. And we bought a huge security company and brought them into the fold. And so now the way that Sirius approaches the marketplace is truly from the solutions perspective, designed to solve problems at a broad spectrum level, and to solve them either from a very abstract position, like enterprise architecture, all the way down to the very high degree of expertise that it takes to produce infrastructure as a code in the cloud. The second thing is is that we have done something that I'm not sure anybody else in the industry has done, and that is that we've created the ability to deliver professional services with a cloud-like experience. We can can meter those services, they're elastic. You can spurt into them when you need more resources and dial it back when you don't. If you got behind in a project, we can accelerate it for you because we work in parallel. We've adopted an agile methodology. That means that we've got a number of people available to pick up tasks at any given time to execute those tasks, and frankly, to work around the clock. So we think that that's a pretty unique way to bring services to market, and it does bring with it not just the advantages I mentioned, but also the advantages of greater economy and better quality control because of the constant scrutiny of the work. And then I think there's always an argument for Sirius when we start to think about the proper place for workloads to run and the proper cost for running them, and because we've developed this end-to-end ability to execute from the professional services starting point, where we can help you design a new environment, consider your options in moving it forward and helping make the best possible selections for your particular business; then through any kind of a migration effort, including refactoring applications, moving into containers, preserving some legacy application that needs hand-holding or care and feeding that is extraordinary and needs kind of a white glove approach; and all the way out to the most commoditized parts of managed services. So in the end, I would say that the primary reason why clients ought to want to work with Sirius is the reason that they actually do wanna work with Sirius. We know our stuff, we've been around a long time, and we very aggressively leaned into all the emerging technologies and made ourselves a expert at them so that you don't have to. 