 Can you play in Virtual Reality on an integrated GPU with enough performance no to die in motion sickness? The requirements for Virtual Reality are significantly higher than regular gaming and low performance can have some nasty consequences. I have already proved how even something as humble as a dedicated GT 1030 is able to play a couple of intense games with the right adjustments. Now I am yet to find an IntelHD powerful enough to run any VR title I own, but then I remembered the Ryzen 2200G. On my video on this 100 dollar APU I was surprised on how far its integrated vega graphics compared to any other integrated GPU I had tried. And so the question takes shape: SuperHot VR was the lightest of the proper Virtual Reality games I tried. With the proper Overclock, could the 2200G run it in a low resolution? On my last video on that topic, I had a bit of a miniature rant of that video regarding overclocking. As a ton of you were quick to point out, my issues were happening due to a low quality VRM, I decided to put yet more money into this project and change the motherboard for this Gigabyte GA-AB350M. Which is a bit more expensive than my previous components. I am not going to claim to be an expert on overclocking, obviously, the lesson learned from here is that if you plan to Overclock you might want to have something better than Amazon's cheapest option... even if it supports Overclocking on paper. With that done, I turned to the cooling. Longtime viewers might remember that time when I use a Chinese all in one water cooler to overclock an old modded Xeon CPU and some noticed that I was sent two of those and that I never used this one which is Ryzen compatible so... let's do that! Finally, I had a short conversation with the folks at Bitfenix (the brands of PC cases) which ended with them sending me a review unit of an Enso case with, I kid you not, a bunch of LED strips and I thought to myself... Why not? So, this is how the Overclocking Ryzen PC Looks like! Wait a minute... I just build a PC from new components, that is liquid cooled that is about to be Overclocked, in a case that is filled with lights. Oh god... Is this becoming a mainstream PC channel? (Nothing under 90 FPS can be allowed) Huh? What was that? (4K is the only acceptable resolution) Oh no. It's the ghost of the PC Master race (8 GB of RAM? Don't make me laugh!) With all the components set all that was needed was to overclock the ryzen, which can easily be done with the Ryzen Master Utility. I am going to focus on overclocking the GPU, which starts on 1.1 GHz. 1.1 GHz. Without touching any of the important voltage values I was easily able to reach 1.35 Ghz. Not bad, any more than that and I get a blue screen which gets fixed by raising the SOC voltage 1.25. From what I have been able to research 1.2 is the top recommended safe value for that but I am sure we can risk 0.05 volts extra without many issues. Right? This tiny change allows us to get all the way to 1.6 GHz which is really good! Any more than that and we start seeing some pretty bad artifacting which can be fixed by raising the GFx voltage but that Overheats the chip and it stars throtelling... so it seems we have hit the limits of the cooling. Still, a 500 MHz jump is nothing to laugh at. Let's test it. For the VR Headset I will use this HP Windows Mixed Reality that I got for cheap for my VR video in the corner. Steam VR did not initially seem to work with this iGPU but after disabling direct mode we were in business. Despise my best attempts Skyrim VR was not withing the realm of posibility. But using the resolution scaler in steam VR and putting it all the way down, superhot gave some interesting results. This game doesn’t even look half bad on a really low resolution. It tells that it has a solid visual design that actually allows you to recognize what is actually happening, even though the resolution is much lower. Which is a huge advantage it has compared to Skyrim or FallOut. So it has excellent performance and it absolutely- it’s still very much recognizable when you’re playing with a low resolution. Oh ok, that didn’t went- Oh wow, that was perfect. C’mon. That doesn’t. Ok. Wow. This is amazing. It’s hard to believe that this is an integrated GPU, they have really come a long way. This could potentially be a fantastic new used case for… ok that was terrible. Oh god no. Oh ok, that actually worked. Oh come on! The only game where speed running is actually exercise. Ok, I think I’m done. I think that’s enough. So if you want to get away with experiencing virtual reality on apu you kinda can, under some specific circumstances. But if you want to get away with making the whole world better without spending any money you could me a madma but I am not because of tab for a cause. Tab for a cause is a plug-in that substitutes your new tab page for a nice looking dashboard with some ads. Money from those ads goes to charity and you can even point out which charities you want to contribute to the most. So install it, start opening tabs and helping the world. Since its creating it has raised over half a million dollars to charity and with your help it can do way more. Check it out in the link in the description. Thank you to them for sponsoring this video, and to people for patreon and huge thanks to fellow creator EposVox for making the voice of the ghost of the PC Master Race. 