 I'm Alexandre Godin, I'm working at Airbus and I'm leading the mixed reality team at Airbus. Part of my job is to foster the use of these technologies to the benefit of the people. Every person on board at Airbus in the coming months and years will go through this holographic course which you can only explain with 3D shapes so people can better understand what it means in terms of technology and what it could bring to them in their personal lives. Mixed reality is going through industries and then will go to the mass market. And if they start to use it at work, they will understand how it can benefit them, and what could be the benefit for them at home. I guess mixed reality is actually a combination of different technologies and these are what we name the mixed reality paradigm, because we are so used to this paradigm of controlling a mouse or controlling something in your hands and trying to control another user, which is your avatar. But in virtual reality you are the avatar, you are the user in the middle of the world, or the digital world. So far we have used computing in a certain way and mixed reality will change the way we interact with this data and with computing technologies. And humans, people, will take benefit from it. I think we all already use mixed reality, for instance, when you have a radar in the rear bumper of your car, you know, telling you with the sound "beep, beep, beep" that the wall is close. So it's already a kind of mixed reality combining the physical reality and the digital reality, these two components, in one single user experience. I think mixed reality will actually make interesting progress because it will all be centred on the user. It will all depend on your own belief, and it will all depend on what you want to do and with what you want to interact. So I guess it's an interesting way forward to recenter the user in the technology. It will change naturally because new capabilities will be at hand and we´ll be able, for instance, to teleport easily, like today you make a call with your phone. 50 years ago it was not even possible, people didn't even think it was possible. But today, to do this is just a usual habit: you just call your mom or your friends. Tomorrow, you will just teleport and be in their house with them virtually. 