 Hello, everybody. Welcome to my talk. Thanks for being late here. I want to show you about Developing industrial mixed reality applications with unity. So, i'm oliver, solutions engineer at unity technologies. We used to be a game engine company, but these days with all These vr and ar and mixed reality head sets, a lot of People are using us outside of games. To start the talk, i want to show you a small video of what People are doing with unity in games and among gaming areas, Which we call this. So i'm going to run a short Ct-show Reel.  So a lot of people are using us to create awesome content, And a lot of mobile games you're playing on your phones are Actually made with unity, more than 50. 60 Of all vr apps, and that's stunning to run it on 2.75 Billion devices last quarter. So it's a huge amount of Devices. Actually, all the demos you like Here for hollow lens, you're seeing in aquariums, actually 91 Of all hollow lens apps are created in unity. And all the major platforms we're supporting, so you can Build on any platform on any device. So is it a desktop you see or a Mac mobile console like xbox 1 or play station or other a r.V. Platforms, so you don't have to decide which device you're Targeting, you can just build it in unity. That's also true for mixed reality head sets for microsoft. So both for the immersesive ones and hollow lens, they are fully Supported in unity, and you have to develop once, and can deploy It with windows platform to all these head sets easily. Because of all these ar and vr devices, unity is now used Heavily outside of games, like in the automotive industry, Where i used to work for. I met workers and to simulate Stuff, and in the film industry, people use unity. So what we bring you is all the powerful games we created For game persons or studios, and Bring this to every developer, even if he is doing non-gaming Applications or industrial applications. With all the benefit that's come From games, for example, the stability of the run time, so Unity was installed on 24 billion downloads last year. So it's running on nearly every device and a very huge amount. You can use your favorite language, to ride high Performance code leveraging the gpu and cp u of any device. And as i said, you can deploy it afterwards to any platform on Any device. With these initiatives, we Create dedicated teams focusing on non-gaming applications, but We have experts around the globe for all of the other use cases You want to build, which are not games. A lot of people are building unity applications for Supporting their work flows or showing the products or the engineering. And so cut support is very important for a lot of people. That's why we partner up with a company called pixies from France, and with the power of them, we can support more than 30 Performance, directly in community, and You can integrate whatever you want. And have the powerful tools to calculate nerves to poly goons And use them inside unity, you can do this manually. Anden script it. So you have a fully automatic Process that's possible. And you can also lower into the Run time you create with unity. Best pc only, so only on windows. Because when you think about the hollow lens, it's a mobile Device, so it's not from the memory of the cpu leverage. It's not possible totes late the data on the device, but on Powerful pcs, you can actually do this. You can use unity to create hollow lens applications very Easily, based on your cut fire. So when you have a client or 3-d Files from your company and want to create applications around it For the hollow lens, it's very easy to do so. And i want to show it to you now. So i'm going to run a Demo. So i have here my unity editor open. And let's imagine i'm working for a company selling brakes for Automotive stuff. So i have here my unity editor With a blank seam and i already installed the pixies plug in Which is found here, and microsoft's mixed reality tool Kit, which is an open source tool kit you can download Directly, and it's selling you a lot of tools to develop for Mixed reality. In the first step, what i'm Going to do is configure my Project, so i'm applying these settings now. Next i want to set up my seams. I say apply mixed reality Setting seams now. What it's doing is preparing Some objects in the seems, so that, for example, the camera When you start the application is On 0, 0, 0, in the coordinate system, so you are good to go. What you also find here is a camera prefab, so it decides am I currently running on a hollow lens or an immersesive or Practice play. So you just create your app Once, and you don't have to think about this Anymore. Now what i can do with the menu Here is just input cat. Search for my cat file which i Got from the department. Which is here, a cattia file, a Cat product. So without leaving unity, i can Natively integrate them without switching the tool or Anything. I just click open. And i decide to transform all my objects on my small pass of the Assembly, and one root object. I currently don't care what it Is. And because we are targeting Hollow lens, i just set the settings to medium, so it's Liketes lating it to a medium quality mesh. Now i press input, and what it's Doing when you see this loading bar, it's actually loading it Into memory,tes lating it to meshes, that you can use in Unity right away. So now the object is Imported. I have my cat file integrated. I want to rotate it a bit. As i said 0, 0, 0 is currently My camera. I want to move it two meters Away, so when i start the hollow lens application, it will be two Meters in front of me. So since these colors that you Now see are from directly from the cat product, so when an Engineer decides okay, this part is yellow because of his Engineering metadata, he needs a color for this, but it's not the Real word color. So that's why we're going to assign better Looking materials which we want to use for visualization. I just created a very small script which is doing that, Which is just searching for names. So i can show you the script. It's just a dictionary searching for names, because they are most Of the time standardized and Putting materials on. So when i now do this, i can Actually recreate scripts that adjust the editor as i want to Help them. You can use c-sharp to actually Modify the unity editor to your needs. Whenever you need a tool, you Just write a c sub-script and you can adjust the unity editor. Now i'm going to assign materials. It's looking better. So we have like metal and paint here. I'm going to go to a sky box for lighting my brakes here. So what you see is the editor view, and the game view that i Would see later on. So imagine on a hollow lens, you could use your hand gestures to Do an explosion in the cat files. So what i do for this is move The center points of each object into the center of the whole Brakes, and it's another small script i created. I just call it hierarchy, and now every single screw and part Has the origin in the same center, so i'm able to animate It very easily. So for these, i don't care right now. So i'll remove this. I want to do interactions now based on my hand gestures in the Hollow lens. So i'm creating an area where i Want to do this. So i created a cue which is one By one by one meter. When i look at this cube, it's Around the brakes. I can use my hand gesture to Interact with. So i don't want to show this Cube, but remove the render in here. So i have the bonding volume, then i will drop my brakes under This cube. So i now have an interactive Component to actually interact with my hand gestures. Therefore i created another script which is just searching For the hand gestures. When the event comes, i can then Calculate the distance when i move my finger left and right. I will explore the cat file which i got from a colleague, For example. When i now press Play, it's simulating my app running inside The unity editor. So you see the small hand Underneath, so i can simulate gesture. When i press space, you see the right-hand shows Up now i can do the gesture, and do the cat Animation automatically. Now we have an interactive Application created in five minutes based on any cat file. You can right away save this now. Calling this live demo. Now build this for hollow lens. So just choosing the folder where i want to build it. It's creating a ufwp out of it, and you can deploy it into your Hollow lens, and use it in vr. In hollow lens you will just see The brakes, in vr, you will see the parking spot that i just Dropped in the background. So to recap this, before it was very hard to bring cat into unity. It's not just a games format. It's from the engineering world, And we're coming from the games world. That's why we are partnering together with pixies to bring The cat files into unity as well to create these awesome vr and Ar experiences. You can actually also download The file, which i show at the breaks. Also on the pixie's web Site. The pixies for unity, and in the Demo i also used the microsoft mixed reality tool kit, which You find on github, which you should use to work with hollow Lens and have a lot of scripts to help you to create Interactive applications. And the last step i just created A build out of it, so that you can deploy it right away. That's under 5 minutes. I didn't ra have a count in the Keynote, but i would say it's like under 5 minutes. More into detail will go my colleague tomorrow, peter, at 10 30. He will show you all the new features which we are providing For unity with mixed reality. There are new features which i Just released this last week. You should definitely check out this talk. Another talk, i can advise you, he's also using the hollow lens, Creating unity applications with the power of machine learning. So i definitely advise you to go there because you'll have a lot Of lessons learned what they created with unity applications. You should go to our booth at 821 where we have colleagues From pixies and unity, and you can ask any questions that you Have, and we can show you with much more details, and the Powerful reduction tool that we provide. And all the questions you Have. So to summarize with unity for industrial. We bundle you all the best tools we created for games. We add the full cut support so you can create your applications Around your already existing data. You don't have to take care of Which tools you need. So like complicated tool chains, You can, directly without leaving the tool editor, you can drop them in. We also have dedicated teams worldwide. I am located in germany. We have resources here in the u.S., And asia, so all around The world. So we are happy to support you On all the applications you are creating. With this power, you can Actually create for mixed reality both for hollow lens and Immerse, and you should do so, because it's a very awesome Experience you can create, and it's a growing market and very Well adopted in the industry. So when you want to work with Big customers, they are searching for unity developers To create experience for them. So when you want to work as a Developer for big names or brands, they're really investing A lot into this space.  Also, you should evaluate this session and give me some Feedback, so also we have time for questions. If anyone has any questions.  Yes, i think so. Yeah. Oh, yeah, i think it's supportive. You can come to our booth and ask the guy, yeah. I'm actually thinking about it. So maybe you can drop me an Email, and we'll open source them later. But i will put them in a repository, Yeah. The question was if we get the script. We'll put it on our editorial question, so very small script, So nothing special. Other Questions? you can also come to our booth And ask us anything. Thanks for your time. 