 Hi in this video I'll be showing you how to get to ELAC Library's Opposing Viewpoints database. To get started, open up a browser and go to elac.edu. From the ELAC homepage, you'll have to get to the library's homepage. You can do that by going into the menu at the top, and going down to the library link under student resources. Here at the library homepage, you can get to see all of our library databases under the Find Articles menu to the left. Click on that and you'll see sub-menu. In the sub-menu, click on databases. That databases link will take you to this page: an alphabetical list of all of the library's databases. To get to Opposing Viewpoints in Context you can see it's listed over here in the Popular Articles Databases box. You can click on Opposing Viewpoints, and if you're off-campus, you'll first see this proxy login screen. Pay attention to the directions below. For students, your username is going to be your student ID number and your password will be Elac with a capital E followed by your birth month and your birth date. For faculty, it will be a little bit different. So I'm going to login with my faculty ID. If I can remember it. Ok. But if you're a student just note up here you'll have your student ID and your password again will be ELAC with a capital E and your birth month and day. So once you hit login you'll see the database should load. Ok so now we're here in the Opposing Viewpoints database. This database is nice because it's nice and browsable. It might be familiar to you, like you're browsing a news website. So it's very easy and it's a good place to start your research. A couple of notes: this database is organized by topic page, so you can either search all topic pages by clicking this Browse Issues button here or you can use the search box at the top to search through all topic pages. So I'll give you an example of what the issue pages or topic pages looks like first. So if you just click on this Browse Issues light bulb button that will take you to an alphabetical list of all the topics covered in Opposing Viewpoints. You can narrow it down a little bit using this sub-menu. And now here's an abbreviated version of that list. The nice thing about these topic pages is that if you click on one of them you're taken to a really nice overview of the topic and then right below that you'll see all the different resources on that topic. And they're separated out according to type. So you'll see these featured viewpoints usually at the top. These viewpoints are essays that are written from either a pro or a con stance, so they're usually somewhat biased but that's because they're trying to give you a particular side or perspective of the topic. Scrolling down further, we also have these academic journal articles that you can look at, more viewpoint essays, primary sources, reference sources, you might even see images, infographics, statistics, videos, audio, news, and magazine sources. SO if you're ready to look at one of these articles, all you have to do is click on the title which is usually in a larger font and is hyperlinked. The title of the article will take you to the full text of that article. So I just clicked on a news article. And now as I scroll down, I see up top, the title of the news article. We're also getting the author and the date this article was published, as well as the original source of this article, so this article is from the Washington Post that was published on November 5th, 2019. Scrolling down now I could read my article. The great thing about Opposing Viewpoints is that you can translate the article into different languages, you can make your font size larger, or you can have the article read to you. All of these features are right above the beginning of the article. The other great thing about Opposing Viewpoints is that there are keywords that are hyperlinked so you can read more about some of these hyperlinked keywords just by clicking on it. You'll also notice as you're scrolling through and skimming your article off to the side you do have an Explore box that will pop up next to every single article. So the explore box is nice because it will take you to articles that are similar to this article in terms of content and it will also give you related subjects to this article that you can explore further. If you've skimmed through your article and you think it may provide some support for one of your arguments in your research, then your next thing to do is to grab either your citation or to get the link to the article, or you could download the article. It's all up to you. If you were working on a Works Cited or References page, you can use the cite button at the top of the article, it just looks like a quote button and it says cite underneath. If you click on that, you'll see you can get your citation in three different styles. It defaults to MLA 8th edition. So here's your MLA 8th edition citation for the article you were just looking at. So if you need it, you can highlight, copy the article citation, and past it into your Works Cited page. Just note the citation is not going to be 100% correct. If you're doing MLA, for example, you will have to go back and capitalize the first word, sorry, the first letter of each of the main words in your title. And you'll have to keep your italics. So remember to always italicize the source of the article, and the database of the article, ok? So just keep in mind after you copy and paste you may need to go in and double-check your citation. Alright. If you want to download this article, you can click the download button to download it to your computer, or if you want to email it to yourself and read it later you can also do so here. So if you're reading through and let's say you're not finding exactly what you're looking for, you can always search the entire database and not just a topic page by using the search bar at the top. If you do this, please remember you don't want to type in questions, you just want to type in keywords. So for example if you're looking into Facebook's privacy issues, you can type in Facebook and privacy and do a search. The reason is when you're in a database, the database will search for every single word you type into that search box. So you'll want to avoid small words that can be applied too broadly, like how or the or why or of. Those small words will pop up in a lot of articles so you just want to focus on what are my main key terms that I want to see in the article, and usually those are your nouns. So I'm going to scroll down, and now instead of getting a topic page with the nice overview, what we're getting is a list of source types that mention my two keywords and I can see them again split up by type below. So we have two academic journal articles, two viewpoint essays, one reference article, seven images, a couple of videos, some audio - the audio tends to be news podcasts - we'll also get some newspaper articles over 600, magazine articles 17 of those in my search, and some statistics. Let's look at one of the statistics just so you can see a visual. So I'm going to click on the title of this statistic. And just like I would with any article at the top once you've clicked on the statistic, you're gonna get the title, you're gonna get the original source of the statistic, in this case it's coming from Tribune Content Agency Graphics, and as I scroll down here is my graph or chart showing the statistics. Don't forget if you are using images like statistics or photographs in your research, you still have to cite your source, and again the great thing about Opposing Viewpoints is that you have a citation generator at the top. So whenever you're looking at an article or an image or a graph make sure you always grab your citation. So again, I'm just going to click on the Cite button and here is my MLA 8th edition citation for the graph or chart that I'm looking at right now. So now if I'm using this in my research I can properly cite the graph. Let's go back into the main database page. So again if you're having any troubles thinking of a topic to use for your research, this is going to be a great start to get your mind thinking about what's new in the news right now and you can always click on this browse issues or you can click on any of these first page issues because these are usually the most up to date. If you scroll down, you'll see more topics that have been recently updated, and you can click and browse to your liking. If you're brand new to a topic, the topic overview is a good place to get familiar with that topic and it can also give you ideas for how to narrow down your topic. So for example, this article or this topic page is on e-waste. If I want to read more I can click the read more button and I can try and look through and see if there's any ways that I can narrow my topic down. What I like to do if I'm trying to narrow down my topic is to try to look through the main ideas, or look at the subheadings to see how I could possibly narrow down this topic. So for example, e-waste. I can look through and see if there's anything that catches my eye. So for example, this particular sentence here: California enacted statewide e-waste laws in 2003. Maybe I want to focus not just on e-waste but on e-waste legislation that's being passed in different states, so maybe I can compare California e-waste law with e-waste law in another state and see how they compare. So that's it. If you have any questions you can always contact us at library@elac.edu. Thanks for watching. 