 - Good afternoon, I hope you all just enjoyed watching that photo shoot. I am Mike Solomon, Dean of the Graduate School. It's my great pleasure to welcome you to this year's Henry Russell Awards Program and Lecture. This is a very special event on the university's calendar. It's the day that we honor our colleague with the highest distinction this institution can bestow, the Russell Lectureship. The 2020 Henry Russell Lecturer is Steven Forrest, whom acting Provost Collins will introduce to you shortly. To begin, I'd like to share a brief history about the namesake for the Russell award. Henry Russell earned three degrees from the University of Michigan; a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1873, a law degree in 1875, and then a Master's of Art degree in 1876. Russell was born in Detroit and remained in Michigan after graduation where he was a successful lawyer and prosperous businessman, who was involved with the Michigan Central Railroad, Michigan State Telephone Company, the Union Trust Company, People's State Bank, and the Detroit Steel Products Company. He was quite the entrepreneurial graduate of the University of Michigan. In February of 1920, while in New York City, Russell took ill and died at the age of 67 from pneumonia just as he was preparing to travel to Europe upon the death of his son. Lieutenant William M. Russell had been killed in aerial combat during World War 1. In his will, Henry Russell left the University of Michigan a $10,000 bequest to create an endowment fund. His one stipulation was that income from the endowment should be used for additional compensation to members of the instructing staff. In May of 1925, the Regents established the Henry Russell Lecturer as a way to recognize a senior member of the faculty with an honorarium of $250 funded by Russell's endowment. In addition, $250 was dedicated for an additional award to honor a faculty member below the rank of professor for a conspicuous service to the University. Although the funds from Russell's bequest have long ago run out, the University continues to honor it's most accomplished faculty with the award in his name. I am honored to be involved in today's ceremony to recognize these outstanding faculty members. Acting Provost, Susan M. Collins, will present the Henry Russell awards to four faculty members. - Thank you very much Dean Soloman. It really is a pleasure to be here. Being able to recognize the distinguished work of some of our faculty is really one of the great pleasures of this university. So it's a pleasure to be here with all of you as well. So, to get started, I would like to invite Professor Carrie Ferrario to please come up and join me while I read the citation. Neuro pharmacologist Carrie Ferrario is known for her pioneering research on the neural and behavioral basis of obesity and drug abuse, including how a prolonged state of obesity alters neural function in reward areas of the brain. As part of her research on the neural behavioral changes that drive overeating in early stages of weight gain, she examines how food seeking and eating differ in obesity-susceptible and obesity-resistant populations. She also studies the effects of cocaine on the function of brain reward circuits. Her goal is to provide foundational evidence upon which treatment and prevention strategies for obesity and drug addiction can be developed. Professor Ferrario is a principle or co-principle investigator on four National Institutes of Health grants. Professor Ferrario has helped to design new neuropharmacological courses and launched the popular interdisciplinary Drugs of Abuse seminar series where graduate students and post-doctoral fellows present research and discuss advances in the addiction field. She is a dedicated teacher, a faculty ally for diversity and graduate education at the University of Michigan, and recipient of an undergraduate research opportunity program Outstanding Mentor award. Congratulations for that as well. Among other honors, she has received early career awards from the American Society for Pharmacology and experimental therapeutics, and the Society for the study of ingestive behavior. Professor Ferrario, in recognition of your exceptional contributions to obesity and addiction research, to teaching and service, the University of Michigan is pleased to present you the Henry Russell award. Congratulations. (audience applause) - Thank you very much. - Congratulations. - Thank you. - Now, will professor Xianzhe Jia please join me while I read the citation. Space physicist Xianzhe Jia, a world leader in planetary physics, combines numerical modeling and satellite observations to study the fundamental plasma processes in planetary environments. He has improved modeling capabilities for space weather research and has advanced the search for extraterrestrial life with his work on the physical conditions of sub-surface oceans, on Europa and other moons of Jupiter. Professor Jia is a major contributor to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Interplanetary Europa Clipper mission. He is deputy team leader for the Magnetometer team and co-investigator for the plasma instrument that will characterize the thickness of Europa's ice shell and the salinity and depth of is subsurface ocean. He also is co-investigator for multiple instruments on the European's Space Agencies Jupiter Icy Moons Explore mission which is scheduled to launch in 2022. An aspiring teacher, Professor Jia introduces students to leading space weather forecasting tools, teaches them to run large-scale simulations and engages them in original research. He also shares his passion for planetary science through media interviews, documentaries, and collaborations on musical and television productions. I have to say when I enjoyed his special lunch Thai, which I hope some of you will have a chance to enjoy as well, that was just an example of I'm sure, the energy and engagement that he brings to all of the work that he does. Among other accolades, Professor Jia has received a NASA early career fellowship, the College of Engineering Ted Kennedy family faculty team excellence award, and a University of Michigan research faculty recognition award. Professor Jia, in recognition of your pioneering contributions to space physics, your teaching and your service, the University of Michigan is pleased to present you the Henry Russell award. (audience applause) - Thank you very much. - Now will professor Corinna Schindler please come forward and join me at the lectern while I read the citation? Synthetic chemist Corinna Schindler is an internationally recognized scholar for her pioneering work in the development of new and sustainable organic transformations. Among other contributions, she discovered and developed catalytic carbonyl olithin metathesis reactions that rely on iron and make breakthroughs in the related area of oxygen-atom transfer reactions. Professor Schindler focuses on an important class of chemical reactions in which double bonds are broken and made between carbon and oxygen atoms, causing atom groups to change places. Her discoveries challenge existing dogma regarding carbon based metastasis reactions and are expected to influence organic chemistry for years to come. Professor Schindler, a Golden Apple award nominee, and recipient of a Camille Dreyfus teacher-scholar award is an outstanding teacher and mentor. And among other initiatives, she updated Michigan's introductory organic chemistry course with new study tools and enhanced discussion sections. She also is actively involved in females excelling more in math, engineering, and science. Nationally, she serves on the Organic and Biomolecular Chemistry and Cell Press Physical Science editorial boards. Among other honors, she has been recognized with a Presidential early career award for scientists and engineers, a Packard fellowship for science and engineering, and an American Chemical Society award in pure chemistry. Professor Schindler, in recognition of your innovative work in modern, synthetic, organic, and organometallic chemistry, your teaching and your service, the University of Michigan is pleased to present you the Henry Russell Award. - Thank you so much. - Congratulations. (audience applause) - Now will Professor Megan Tompkins-Stange please join me at the lectern, and I have to say that this award has a special place in my heart because not only is Professor Tompkins-Stange a colleague in my home school, the Ford School, but while I was Dean, I was the one who brought her to Michigan. So, I'm delighted to be able to recognize her in this way. Public policy scholar Megan Tompkins-Stange is an expert on how private philanthropy influences public policy. Her book, Policy Patrons, Philanthropy Education Reform, and the Politics of Influence is a landmark study of how elite philanthropic foundations have shaped K-12 educational policy in the United States. The book has received scholarly acclaim and shaped contemporary critical discussions about the role of philanthropy in a liberal democracy. In policy patrons, Professor Tompkins-Stange offers a rare glimpse into the internal decision-making of four of our nation's largest foundations. She shows how the foundations behave as policy entrepreneurs, as central architects of change initiatives and through approaches that yield strategic control to grantees. She has received several national awards for her outstanding research, and has given numerous lectures in Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and the United States. A passionate teacher and faculty lead for the Ford School's public and non-profit management concentration, Professor Tompkins-Stange encourages students to think critically about normative questions in non-profit management, the ethics of public service, and the relationship between philanthropy and inequality. She received the 2018 Provost's Teaching Innovation prize for her experiential course Private Foundations in the Public Arena in which students collectively engage in actual grant making. Professor Tompkins-Stange, in recognition of your pioneering research into how philanthropy influences public policy in education, for your research and your service, the University of Michigan is pleased to award you a Henry Russell award. Congratulations. (audience applause) - Now it is my great pleasure to invite Professor Stephen Forrest to come forward while I read the citation. Engineer and inventor Stephen Forrest is renowned for his foundational contributions to octo-electronic integral circuits and organic semi-conductors, which have revolutionized the way we communicate, share information and produce energy. As the University of Michigan's Vice-President for research, he helped bring new technologies to market and significantly expanded Michigan's research portfolio. He launched the energy institute and mobility transformation center, the forerunner to M-City, Among other initiatives. And he enhanced economic development as chair of Ann Arbor Spark, and through his service on the Michigan Economic Development Corporation Board. Professor Forrest holds almost 340 US patents, and has helped found five companies. He demonstrated the first avalanche photo diode for long-haul fiber communications, a semi-conductor device that converts light to energy, and invented the first reliable photo detector now used in almost every fiber telecommunications system worldwide. He developed thin film, semi-conductor organic light-emitting diodes that enable flat panel displays in smart phones, pads, televisions, and other applications. He also has advanced the use of thin film material to produce a new generation of inexpensive energy-efficient solar cells. An exceptional teacher and mentor, Professor Forrest has chaired or co-chaired 60 PhD committees, and mentored 34 post-doctoral fellows. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy's of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the National Academy of Inventors. He has also received the University of Michigan's distinguished university innovator award. Professor Forrest, in recognition of your numerous research contributions, exemplary leadership, outstanding teaching and mentoring, and entrepreneurship, the University of Michigan is truly honored to present you with the Henry Russell Lectureship. Congratulations. (audience applause) Well please join me in welcoming the 2020 Henry Russell Lecturer Stephen Forrest, who will speak on carbon versus carbon dioxide using carbon-based organic electronics for a more sustainable planet. - Thank you. - The floor is yours. (audience applause) - Thank you so much, Provost Collins. Well thank you for all being here. This is a tremendous honor for me, obviously. And it's a tremendous honor for my students as well, who've helped all this time to bring us to where we are today. So today, what I'm going to talk about is my little bit strange title, carbon versus carbon dioxide. It really centers on a field that I have been exploring since, well since a long time. It flows very nicely into something that the university is doing today, which is seeking a path toward carbon neutrality. This is also a problem that I have been concerned about for decades. So I wanna start my talk by just giving you some background about where we sit as a planet. Most everybody here knows this because they read the newspapers every day. But this kind of encapsulates it. This in the next slide, which shows what the international panel on climate change sees and recommends. The current annual emissions are about 52 giga tons of CO2 annually, and they're headed to even higher numbers. However, and I will show you the consequences of not getting this under control. Their target of getting to only 1.5 degrees of climate temperature increase by 2030 requires that we be at the 25 to 30 gigaton level. So we're going in the wrong direction today. By mid-Century we're supposed to basically be at zero. So these are just numbers. They're large quantities. It's very hard for us to comprehend. I think this might help us a little bit more. This shows the consequences of what happens at 1.5 degrees and what happens at 2 degrees, which is probably a more realistic place where we're heading. So 2 degrees doesn't sound too much in human terms, but for the island nations of the world, even 1.5 degrees is life threatening. It's an existential threat because of the rise in sea levels. You can see the one that always stands out to me, just kind of bursts out of the list is at 1.5 degrees, we already sacrifice 70 to 90% of our coral reefs and their ecosystems. At 2 degrees, we've lost 99%. That just gives you a sense of all the consequences of climate change, why this is the most urgent problem for humanity today. If you're not sentimental about human beings, that's okay and we can allow this to grow to whatever it grows to, right? But I think most of us are fairly sentimental about being human beings and we want our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren to survive in a wonderful environment and have all the benefits that we have. So now let's take this back one step and think about what can we do about it, because when you look at that level of daunting challenge, and CO2 emissions are just rising when they should be falling, et cetera, et cetera, what can we do? Of course I'm very honored to be the co-chair of the President's Commission on Carbon neutrality. I co-chair it with Jennifer Habercam. I'm very honored to be part of that because the University of Michigan, when it does something and when it says something, it's taken very, very seriously and as a model for the world, we can do a lot. But of course then you start to feel, oh my goodness, is this even a feasible problem to tackle? And yes it is. There's a lot of things going on today that really give us a great deal of hope. Conservation, and I'm gonna talk about two things and the next two panels being the core of my talk, because ultimately I'm a technologist. I'm not a politician or anything like that. I'm not an environmental scientist. But conservation is the simplest route to carbon reduction. So we just stop using so much energy, right? We're stuck with a world that produces energy at a certain rate by fossil fuel means primarily. What can we do? Well if you just look at lighting and associated electronics that we use, lighting itself is about 25% of the electricity use in buildings, give or take. Residences less, industrial locations more. So we can, I'll talk in the first part of my talk, about lighting and what we can do there. And the second part is how about let us generate electricity in a renewable way, which does not require fossil fuels or carbon emissions. I just wanted to show this, it's the solar opportunity because I think that ultimately good business leads to the solutions that are going to be implemented at scale. Solar is coming along very, very rapidly. It is, the US today is the largest fossil fuel producer in the world, not just user but, we're also the largest fossil fuel producer. So you would think that we'd have very cheap fossil fuel energy. Well it turns out that the cost of solar in most locations in the United States is cheaper than fossil fuel. The type of capital you may have to produce to build a solar farm can be problematic, can be a barrier, but once you've got it, you have cheap energy. This is one of the projects that's going in. It was announced in the Los Angeles area. 400 megawatts of capacity with about four hours of lithium battery storage so that when the sun goes down, which it has a tendency to do, you'll have still four hours of energy that can supply power at two to three and a half cents per kilowatt. It's currently about 1.5% of the US electricity in solar. It's because the sun does go down. It's actually quite a bit more than that during the day and during the peak hours when we use it. But the business is growing at 30% per year. For decades it's been doing that. And it's getting to be quite sizable today. So the first thing I'm gonna talk about are organic light abating devices for displays in lighting. The reason I threw in displays here is because I'm passionate about displays. I'm passionate about OLEDs and by the way, they can be used for lighting, very efficient lighting. That was that big chunk of energy conservation. So OLEDs are really today, revolutionizing the human machine interface. They're dominating the mobile, and soon monitor and TV markets. So you can buy them today, OLED TV's. And if you do, you will be very, very happy with what you buy. So the next question is can they revolutionize the cost and uses of efficient lighting? I will tell you what an OLED is in detail in a bit. I have a crooked view graph here, but it's coming up. It's okay, we'll get the point across. Somehow this thing flipped. This is the growth of the, the thing that you see that's turned on it's side is really the size of the OLED display market today. It's about a $20 billion market. It's quite large. These are OLED displays and this forms the foundation of the most efficient light-emitting device that we know of today. And they're everywhere. I have my good friend and partner here, Mark Thompson. We were discussing how many Samsung phones have been made so far. I have two billion. It always reminds of the old McDonald's signs, two billion sold. I think it's, we're thinking it's right now about three billions. They're everywhere, and in ATVs and so on. So this became a real foundation of OLEDs for lighting and I'll show you why in a minute. And they're everywhere. I just took this picture (inaudible) International Airport. It's a gigantic OLED display. You can see here, these are, I like to call them scale bars. They're about two meters high, maybe a little less. You can see the size of that OLED display, and that's a very small OLED display compared to what you can find in Abu-Dhabi and places like that. Of course, LG makes those, and they're the quintessential marketers, for those of you old enough to know about Kodak moments, LG has made an OLED moment. You stand at this place and take pictures of their displays. Some of the features is that they're roll-up, so you can very soon, actually I think it's this year, LG is introducing an TV that rolls into a little box. You can do lighting which I'm gonna talk about in a minute. So let's take a step back. What are organic electronic materials? What do they do that common inorganic semiconductors like silica and (inaudible)? Why are they there? We've got such good semiconductors out there. This is what are organic molecules that form the basis of the electronics that I've been working on for now about 35 years. They're basically carbon-rich compounds and they're everywhere. Everybody in this room I think is probably wearing clothing that has organic dyes and those organic dyes are very often are semiconductors and sometimes very good semiconductors. So very good electronic materials. They come in individual units as monomers. This thing is about a nanometer across, maybe a little bit more. You can string these monomers into a long chain and they become polymers. We know those as plastics, very tough, flexible. And then there's us, biological organic things. So these guys are mostly made in the lab, though they do have non-biological origins. You can even find many of these molecules, not this one, I wish we could. But out in space they've been identified and sometimes we get a rock that comes down from Mars and people say, "Oh, it's got inorganic molecules like (inaudible) in it." There must be life on Mars. No, it actually, it can be synthesized quite inorganically, if I can use that word. This is too complicated for us. We don't know how to build these things. But they're fantastic solar cells very often. They're called plants, photosynthesis. So what makes organics different? I'm not gonna talk about biological molecules. I'm too sentimental about them. I'll talk about the others. I'm not gonna go through everything here, but I just wanna point out the big difference between organic materials and semi-conductor materials is how they're bonded, how they assemble themselves into a solid. The way organic molecules assemble themselves into a solid is they're electrostatically bonded. There's no chemical bonds between those molecule within the solid. They just kinda stick together electrostatically. In inorganic materials like silicon, the neighboring silicon share electrons and they form a chemical bond. From that essential difference comes everything else. All their optical properties, which I'm gonna talk about next, and all of their electronic properties. Some of them are very good, and some of them make a very poor semi-conductor. You would never for example use an organic semi-conductor to replace, let's say the five billion transistors that are in the central processing units of your computers today. It wouldn't function. It would be too slow. It would be a mess. Actually they're pressing toward a trillion transistors in your little machines today. So you should be happy you have so many things at such a low price. The essential optical difference is because of this electrostatic bonding. The electric fields within these materials is quite low compared to, let's say a regular semi-conductor, actually quite high compared to a regular semi-conductor. So what happens is that when you bring in light, you create an excited state and that excited state, it's basically an electron gets promoted to a higher level and then eventually it decides to recombine, that is come back down to it's lower state and give off a photon, and therein generates light. In inorganic materials, this excited state, is very, it's spread over many, many atoms in the latus, maybe 50 or 100. But because of this electrostatic bonding that goes on in organics, each organic molecule forms it's own excited state. You put electrons onto that molecule, it will get into that excited state. You wait a little bit, and with very high efficiency, 100%, you'll get light out. So it's a really active optical and electronic material. That's why we use them as dyes in our clothing. We use them in our inkjet printers and laser jet printers. Those are all organic semi-conductors, very heavily colored. So why should we care about them? Well, because they can go onto your clothes and so on. They can be put over huge areas. Things like displays and lighting and solar cells are large area devices. They can be extremely low cost. They can be expensive too, but largely speaking they can be very, very low cost. And they are produced at very low energy, so the payback time for, let's say a solar cell can be quite brief. They can be put on flexible substrates. Polymers already are organics, where we can make devices that can roll up and form into any shape you like, conformable. If you buy an Audi today, you probably have an OLED tail light on it. It's been shaped. They like that. Easy to manufacture and they're everywhere. Good things. So my mantra is if two or more of these conditions are met, the case for organic electronics is highly compelling. We like to think about organics the way we think about news prints. After all, news print uses organic dyes and inks to make the images that we see. And it's made on rollers. Very, very fast. That extremely high rate. What if we could make electronics on a roll to roll process? And we do that. So let's now turn to the light-o-meter. Turning molecules into very efficient displays of lighting. The bi layer OLED was invented by Ching Tang and Stephen Slike at Kodak in the mid-80's, and it's a very thin device. It's only a couple, it's about 100 nanometers thick. You bring in electrons from one electrode and holes from another electrode, which is the positive analog of an electron. They combine on this molecule. They excite that molecule into it's excited state. They create this thing called the exoton. Then after a little bit of time, a few nanoseconds, this thing relaxes and we get a green photon out. That was their innovation. It was not terribly efficient, but it was really exciting because you could put in a little bit of current and all of a sudden you'd have this light-emitting device which was far thinner than a human hand. Then you could make an OLED display. I'm not gonna talk about that in any detail, but I think a key step forward when things got really exciting was when the process of electrophosphoressence was introduced. The problem with the Tang device is it isn't very efficient because when you send in an electron onto these molecules, only from a quantum mechanical selection rule, without getting into detail, only one in four of those electrons can actually generate light. The other three generate what's called phosphorescence, which we have on watch dials. It's slow, it's inefficient, it's not very much fun unless you have a watch dial that you wanna reignite. But if you wanna make a display that moves and everything else, you don't want that. The innovation here was to put a heavy metal atom in the center. I did this with my good friend Mark Thompson. That broke this quantum mechanical law. So now every single electron that came onto these molecules would emit light. We now had 100% efficient device, and you can make all kinds of things. It's a miracle of modern chemistry is all I can say. I like to say that blue is beautiful. We've been working on blue for a long time. Sometimes I think it's the ugliest color in the world because there are problems we can't solve, but it's really satisfying to make these things. You can't even see the OLEDs. They are so bright. They're pointing away from the camera. And here you can just see the bare edge of one of those OLEDS going and projecting it's color out to the screen. But I like to show this, is that this is exactly the same chemical in both cases. The structure is just slightly different. In one case those rings are kind of on a face and in the other, one is twisted out of the face and it makes it a little greener as opposed to blue. And the problem is they're short-lived, blue is. But we're working through it and there are solutions to it. So if you have a lighting, I just wanna show this chart since we're talking about reducing carbon in the world and therefore efficiency is so important, if you still have incandescent bulbs in your house, you should go out there with a hammer today and crash them up. It's a wonderful invention. The only problem is, is you've got a technology that's 150 years old. Who wants that in their house right? You can't sell a house with 150 year old technology really. But they're very, very inefficient. They're basically a heater, which gives off light as a by-product. So this has turned around and now you can buy LEDs, light-emitting devices. So those are inorganic. They are nitrate-based devices. They tend to be extremely efficient, and they're actually getting pretty cheap, about $5 per kilo lumen. So an incandescent bulb is about 50 cents per kilo lumen, just to give you an idea. A 60 watt bulb is about a kilo-lumen. So it's about 50 cents for a 60 watt bulb, about $5 for here, but by the time you run this through it's lifetime, and you have to replace this one 10 times before you wear out one of these, and you use less electricity, this is actually a tremendous energy saver. That's why the Department of Energy wants you to buy those things. OLEDs, we're getting 100% efficiency in the device, but getting all the light out is still a challenge because it gets trapped inside the device, but we're working on that. There's lots of very good solutions to that. The real problem with these are they're still too expensive so for architectural uses, they're very exciting. But for common lighting, there's still some work to do. It's just like displays, the more you make of them, the cheaper they get. These are just some OLED chandeliers. This one is in Munich, in Deutsche Banc. It's really I think one of the prettiest ones ever made. The nice thing about OLEDS is you can make windows that light up and become transparent when you turn them off. This was a job done by, an experiment done by one of my students, Caleb Coburn who's now at Apple who uses these things in the iPhones. He's made these very intense OLED devices and lots of layers. A lot of thought has gone into this. And they live a good long time, 80,000 hours. So you think about your incandescent bulb, it's 800 hours. Two orders of magnitude shorter. Okay. So let me in the rest of my talk, talk about solar cells. Can they compete with silicon? You see silicon fields all, tremendous amounts of them out there. We have some on North Campus. Actually we have two fields on North Campus. You just drive up in Michigan, you'll see them in the fields. In other states, many more. If you go to Germany, they had to stop the deployment of solar because the farmers were finding it was more economical to build solar farms on their fields because they could sell that energy than it was to graze cows or grow crops. So they came with a law that says you can only fill up 20% of your field with solar panels. I don't know how much that stopped them. They tend to behave. But nevertheless, they really went all in when solar was not very inexpensive. I've already shown you it can be terribly cheap today. We're going to be talking about using transparency of our solar cells as a ubiquitous source of clean power. That might seem like a contradiction in terms, making a transparent solar cell. I thought it was supposed to absorb light. Well actually it does, but not where you see it. You can make it absorb in the infrared. There's a ton of solar energy, but it could be transparent and invisible, so why not make windows that generate electricity rather than just generate heat? Because your windows are cutting out about 50% of the light, somewhere in there. Sometimes less, sometimes more, depending on the application. So this just shows an energy diagram. I have to go to some physics here of what the internal workings of a solar cell are, the organic solar cell. This is a plot of energy versus distance along the cell. So we're going through a very thin film again and what we do is instead of generating a photon by making an excited state or exoton recombine, we're gonna take a photon, bring it in and excite the material. Then we're gonna let that excited state hop from molecule to molecule to molecule until it gets to an interface between a donor material, an electron donor material and electronic acceptor material. The electron wants to lose energy, so it pops over to here. The hole wants to lose energy. It pops over to here and kinda does it in the opposite direction. But it's a little bit subtle. But the fact of the matter is, we can with a very high degree of probability, turn a photon into a free charge. That's the opposite of light generation where you take the free charge and you make a photon. So that's a solar cell. Okay just some facts. Is it really enough solar energy? You bet. Everything on Earth we owe to the Sun. Everything. There's not a single thing here that did not come from the Sun at one time or other, from nuclear to whatever. But every day we get a lot of sun, even in Michigan. And actually Germany, which has gone whole hog; it doesn't anymore, but it did go whole hog on solar installations, has probably fewer clear days than Michigan. Although we are really in a bad spot for sun. But on a sunny day, we get about a kilowatt per square meter of sunlight. Now this is a round room so I have trouble dealing with it, but it's probably what? About 150, probably about 50 meters right? By 50 meters. That's what? 2500 square meters. That's 2.5 megawatts hitting this thing. That's a lot of energy. We've just gotta figure out how to get it cheaply. These are the efficiencies of solar cells that are out there today. This is called a technology readiness level. So just to level set you, those solar fields you're seeing out there are probably on the order of 20% efficient, which means for every square meter, they're getting 200 watts of power. That's probably what's going on up at North Campus. The highest you can do with a single junction cell is about 30%, but it's a very expensive technology based on (inaudible). Organic solar cells are sitting at about 17%, 170 watts per square meter. That's really good if you think about it, especially since these are super cheap. But as I often tell my group, if you're gonna compete head to head with silicon, go home. You already lost because silicon is such a embedded, mature technology. So we have to do something very different. So let me go to organic solar cells. The same character at Kodak in 1986, oops go back, now you guys know what I'm gonna say. That's embarrassing. All right, I have to do it this way, the old fashioned way. There we go. Same guys, Ching Tang. The year before the OLED, came up with an organic solar cell. He put it in front of a Kodak carousel projector as his solar source and he found it was 1% efficient. That was really exciting to me. That actually changed the course of my research, completely. I had some friends at Bell Labs before that who we worked on organics with together, and the year after this he came up, Ching Tang came up with the bi layer OLED. I get a call from my friend Paul Schmidt who I'd worked with for years. He's an older gentleman. And Paul said, "Steve, you have to drop everything and start working on OLEDs." But they didn't call them OLEDs in those days. I says I can't. He says, "Why not?" It's because I'm working on his earlier paper right now. That was this one. It was just such a beautiful paper. My first solar cell that came out of my group came a year or so later. It's been paced basically by the efficiency, of course 1% is terrible if you saw that chart, but that was the first demonstration. It just showed the possibility, and it's been mostly paced by new materials. Today the materials are getting very sophisticated. We engineer them in my lab, but to tell you the truth, the Chinese laboratories have a tremendous lead in development of these types of materials. We call them acceptor-donor, acceptor materials. It's a lot of detail. The important thing is this is the spectra, the absorption spectra of these materials. Again, some maybe, or some other people. But what's interesting is that they absorb. So the visible spectrum where we see is about between 400 and 650 nanometers. This is what we see. That's our world. Out here is the infrared for longer wave lengths. You can see they're rather narrow and they just absorb there. So why don't we choose some materials out here to absorb out there and generate electricity? And then build solar cells. So this is a group of materials. It uses different optical tricks and so on and so forth. But this is a solar cell. It looks like just a piece of glass. Some of you who have journeyed far today will recognize this area. It's the, I guess what DOW. I think it's the DOW building. But you can change the color of these things. I don't think you really want a window that looks like that, but this thing is really efficient. It's not this. This is when it's opaque. We get out to about 13% with these types of materials. This is what's called a chromaticity chart. If you want a window that looks really neutral density, there it is right in the center. That's one of our devices. We have a characterization for transparent materials, which we call the light utilization efficiency. It's basically the power conversion efficiency times how transparent it is. Right now our lab is sitting up here at about 7%. No actually 5%. I'm sorry I'm looking at this kind of at an angle, about 5%. Then this is the rest of the world. These things really are looking exciting for window applications. So you hang up a window. Of course it's not gonna have exactly the right profile for the sun, but it's gonna generate a lot of electricity during the day. We have to figure out how to get that electricity in your window integrated into your household electricity. It's not very hard to do that. You integrate this little what we call mini inverters on them and so on. And we've been looking at the economics of that. It looks very, very interesting. A lot of things that people worry about is organic molecules are fragile and die. Well, we know that because we're fragile and we die. And we're organic right? But in fact, that doesn't have to be the case. Your OLED displays last about a million hours. A year is 7,000 hours so if you stared at your display for 7,000 hours. Well nobody in this age group would wanna do that. But if you stared at it for 7,000 hours, you would have spent a year of your life looking at a screen. So keep your kids away from so much screen time. So that's one of the things. But we've been playing around with some devices that we find extrapolate out to 27,000 years. That's a long time. Of course when you put it outside, it's not gonna live that long. This is an intrinsic lifetime, but it tells you that there's no reason to think that organic solar cells can't last as long as inorganic. This is, I sent one of my students out to Israel. They get a lot of sun in the naked desert with very few clouds, except when we were doing our experiment. This is what happened on this day. So this is this thing just running out there in the field for 100 and some odd days. And then bang, it just died. That day he said it rained in the Nageth desert. So we have packaging issues to do. So I wanna end this talk with one thing that I saw when I was out in California. I think it's a really important saying is we do not inherit the Earth from our ancestors. We borrow it from our children. I think that's really the wisdom that ought to be driving us today. We're so interested in consuming everything around us, but really we're not here for very long. So we borrow it from our children. That comes from an unknown Native American tribe. With that, I want to thank some people. This is my current group. We call it the Upped Electronic Components and materials group. I can say that everything that I say in my talk that is correct, I owe to my students. And everything that I say that is wrong, I owe to myself. They have really taught me a lot through my career. The other person who has taught me a tremendous amount is Mark Thompson, my partner in crime and great friend for 25 years. We've been working on OLEDs, now solar cells. He has a group of incredible chemists, students, many of whom I've gotten to know over the years too. So we have this gigantic sort of team of people that just really works together marvelously. Of course I've had great support from a lot of places. Universal Display Corporation, which Mark and I helped found is really at the core of the OLED Lighting World and OLED display world. I also owe a lot of debt to the Air Force Office of Scientific Research who has, and Charles Lee, who has just retired and he funded me for longer than he probably wants to tell anybody in the Air Force Office of Scientific Research without getting into some sort of problem. But he's retired now so I can say that. And of course my wife Ros, who's been with me forever in a fantastic journey. So thank you all very much. (audience applause) - Get the speaker. We have some time for questions, and we'd ask you to use the microphone for that. - Hi my name is (inaudible) from Mongolia. I'm not a tech person or an engineer or anything, just a simple question. I know energy is a huge problem worldwide, and developing countries are suffering from the effect of climate change a lot. Can this technology not only provide light, but also heating? Yeah heating as well, because lots of air pollution is caused by burning fossil fuel and even in the households. And millions of people are dying in developing countries because of that. - So I think that developing countries have an opportunity to not make all the mistakes that the more developed countries have done. These technologies can be very inexpensive. That's the point. So it can be less expensive than current technology. It also allows you to generate power at the location that you live in. So for example, I love this. It's called Light Up the World Foundation. They started supplying solar panels with LED lights to families in India, in truly rural, impoverished places. What was their cycle of life every day? It was to get up with the sun, work in the fields. Come home, and when the sun went down, they'd have dinner and go to sleep. So their day was sort of leveled by that. What they found is what if they could just supply a solar panel, a small solar panel, and a LED light. What happened is the kids particularly started to read because after hours you read right? That's what you do when you have a light in your house. So that now breaks that cycle because literacy now gets to spread. So in those days when that program came out, maybe 15 years ago, 20 years ago, things were not as cheap as they are today. But they're very cheap today and there's a lot of schemes to put solar into people's hands, even if they have almost no income. Because you can have them pay as they use it. You have to kind of clever about how to do that, but that's what's starting to diffuse. China right now is one of the largest, rapidly growing markets for solar and they've invested a huge amount in it, which is one of the things that has driven the price so far down. It happened by government subsidies and then American companies and then other companies decided well if that's the game, we better start to play it. So they brought their prices down and they'll never go up again. So I think there's a lot of hope for remote places to get electricity and lighting where they've never had it before and this is one of the technologies we're working on. - I'd like to put some kind of solar electric system on my house. How long do I have to wait to be able to use this kind of technology instead of standard silicon panels? - I have a house in Vermont, and people ask me all the time why don't I have organics in my house, organic solar cells. And I tell them a little bit snarkily, I wanna have power. These are still a little bit, so I use silicon. It actually was very inexpensive to do. You set it up. There's enough from cost to me because I'm off grid in my house there. I have no choice. So I don't get any subsidies from the state because they know I need it. When we set it up, you have a setup cost. I would guess the payback time is about five years. But once you set it up, there's very little expense. We have batteries. That's how we do it. The stuff that we're working on in the lab, it's laboratory stuff. We have industrial partners. It takes a bit of time. When we started on the OLED journey, it was 1992, I think something like that. By the time we started our company in 1994, we went public in 1996. Had almost nothing. By 2006, we actually started to make money. So it takes time. People say things happen more rapidly now. I don't believe that. I think it still takes 20 to 30 years in between innovation and a deployable application. So these windows, we're talking to glass companies and things like that. I think you're looking at five years is pretty much the deal. - Last question. - I'm excited. Thanks Steve. That was awesome. I was kinda curious, a lot of the criticisms I often hear is that a lot of times the burden of reducing climate change or fighting climate change falls on individuals where it's like put new light bulbs in your house, or eat less meat or bike to work when in reality, it's a lot of times corporations that are contributing the most to climate change. So I'm curious what do you think about this kind of technology, can it impact corporations to maybe do more on their end to lessen their carbon footprint? Or do you think there needs to be much bigger, wide-sweeping changes in order for that to have an actual impact? - That's a very complex question. Companies are purely driven by money. So if they see that there's a buck to be made. They will go and find it. This is becoming a very profitable business. So that's one of the things that helps. On the other hand, there's vested interest, right. A company who's selling one thing doesn't wanna change, and very often gets swept aside. I like to say that there's such a thing, there's people out there who are climate deniers, climate change deniers. And my basic feeling about that is there's very, very few because most of us wake up in the morning, we have something in our head and we read, and we can see the world around us changing. Climate denial is a proxy for vested interest. So all we've gotta do is show them where the bucks are and they will follow that. On the other hand, so the complicated part of that is that corporations left to themselves follow different sort of, they have a different DNA. So what you need is the government to provide some guard rails to make sure that you stay in the lane and that you provide also some incentives so that these companies will find their way to shift their direction. You're seeing that everywhere, but our big corporations in this state, Ford and GM, they already have carbon neutrality plans. Why are they doing that? Well, two reasons. There's actually money savings, and the other thing is their customer demands it. If you don't, we have customers too. They're called students. So if we don't, if they deny that, they're not going to exist. They're in for the survival thing, just like all of us. So the world is changing very very fast right now in it's attitude toward how to fix these problems. There's a lot of technical solutions, but you should never underestimate the power of the individual. If you turn off your light, remember there are seven billion people on this planet. Seven billion lights go out at night. That's a good thing. Seven billion people don't eat as much meat as they used to. I'm not an advocate of changing our lifestyle and living intent. I wanna live a really nice life, and I want my kids to live that life the same way. I don't think that they are intentioned. You can have it both ways. We just haven't constructed our world to have it both ways yet, but we're moving there. - Thank you Professor Forrest. Please join me in thanking our 2020 Henry Russell Lecturers. (audience applause) 