  Chris Namovicz: Good morning, everybody! Welcome to the U--U.S. Energy Information Administration's third workshop that will explore trends and expectations surrounding the outlook for energy markets. Today, we will discuss electricity markets. We're very excited to have several distinguished panelists joining us. Thank you to them for agreeing to be here and sharing their thoughts and insights. These workshops are very important to EIA, and we are joined today by both our Administrator, Linda Capuano and Deputy Administrator, Steve Nalley. My name is Chris. I'm the lead analyst of the EIA's renewable electricity analysis team. EIA is a statistical agency within the United States Department of Energy. Our mission is to provide independent and impartial data and analysis that can be used to better understand how energy markets function and make more informed decisions. I want to review a few housekeeping items. We will be recording this webinar, a link to both the recording and presentations will be sent to all participants, once it has been uploaded GIS website with closed captioning. To avoid background noise, all attendees have been placed on mute. There'll be a Q&A period for each session. Well, there's only one session here. You may submit your questions at any time using the chat function and the WebEx control panel.  Please make sure you direct your questions to all panelists. We will do our best to follow up with you on any questions which we did not get to today. Also, I want to thank Kelsey Brasher and Richard Bauer of EIA for helping to monitor and run the WebEx and Q&A here today. This has been an unusual and extraordinary year with energy markets seeing severe shocks for both the supply side and the demand side. Electricity is a critical commodity in our economy and society and has been caught in the middle of these shocks. At EIA, we like many others are developing new approaches to gather information and estimate the direction and scale of market changes. These workshops are one way for us to better understand the dynamics we are observing. Our workshop today will feature four panelists each providing a different perspective on how electricity markets have been impacted and how we might expect these impacts to play out over both near and midterm horizons. I'll give a brief bios, uh, before introducing each panelists, uh, for a quick overview, but just so everybody knows, uh, Christine Tezak, Ethan Zindler, Chris Pilong and Justin Baca are our four speakers. So going to, uh, Christine, she's the managing director at Clearview Energy Partners, where she leads Clearview's, electricity markets, interstate pipelines, and energy structure, energy structure and U.S. environmental policy coverage. I'm using her more than two decades of experience in the electric utility and natural gas pipeline sectors. Prior to joining Clearview, Christine was a senior research analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., and a Senior Vice President with the Washington Research Group. She has testified before FERC and the U.S. House of Representatives, and had served eight terms as a board member of the Washington DC based Women's Council on Energy in the Environment. Um, Mrs. Tezak holds a bachelor's degree in Russian from Boston College, and an MBA in Finance from the George Washington University. And we are pleased to have her today to, for her to present her insights. Thank you.  Christine Tezak: Thanks so much, Chris. Thank you for having, um, Clearview with you today. Uh, just a couple of comments to start off, um, you know, the conversation here, you know, the Covid experience has been an unusual one for the power sector in no small part, because it is a, you know, a, a sector that is underpinned by incredibly long lived investments. And so fluctuations in demand, such as those occasioned by the shutdowns of the economy in response to attempts to control the Corona virus are unusual in that respect and they have played out in some very interesting ways. One of the things that we have, um, successfully, whether it's so far, particularly from the, um, electric utility perspective has been, um, the contract, the, you know, the reflection of this unusual economic condition in the capital markets. Um, there were concerns that short term credit, uh, would be, uh, hard to come by or particularly expensive. The Federal Reserve was intervening to help manage, um, that impact not only for the electric utility industry, but for corporations in general. And this I think was substantively successful in so far as we, there was a, uh, there were a couple of weeks where things looked a little iffy, but, um, the access to capital for the regulated utilities is remained, um, unfettered in the words of, uh Moody's. And that is, that is certainly constructive and good news for customers. The other thing that is important to keep in mind is that that particular environment is colored by, uh, the regulatory outlook. The reason that utilities tend to trade inverse to market conditions, meaning when as defensive stocks, when the market's really ripping the utility sector tends to not reflect that much of an uptick. And usually when the markets are strained, then there is what is referred to as the flight to quality where folks who normally don't invest in utilities may seek to hide their money, if you will, in something that they perceive to be more stable. And certainly regulation, um, is an area that is perceived to be more stable with the requests by policy makers, starting, you know, from the U.S.Congress and all the way down through the States that utilities forbare, uh, the, um, unpaid bills while, uh, the economy sorts itself out. And while unemployment benefits were sorted out. And, and while the strategy for reopening was developed this, um, this is something the thing that creates regulatory risks for the utility sector. And so we have seen, um, the, this reflected in more volatile equity prices. In fact, the U.S. utility sector tends to trade it. What is called a beta to the market and of about 0.4, 2.5 at when you assume that market itself is 1.0 and now it is mu--it is above 0.7 to about, there's a couple of utilities that are on par with the market at one. And what that implies is assumption that two things, um, it implies that there's, there's probably a likelihood that those, um, unpaid bills get addressed in some fashion, perhaps not in a hut, not to 100%, but that, um, the regulatory lag we'll sort that out and the utilities will remain healthy. However, given that the visibility is a little cloudy and that we haven't worked through all of the regulatory mechanisms of working that out, um, there is more risk associated with investing in the electric utility sector than there has been in the past. That said, you compare that to other industries that have been a lot more adversely impacted. The first one to think of is, is oil and gas and pipelines they're off. Um, you know, since before the pandemic, about 36% since the beginning of the calendar year, whereas utilities are only about down 13%. So it's still an inverse correlation with the market, but definitely a, a softer fall, if you will compare to what we have seen in other components of the energy sector. More broadly, um, again, because decisions on a regulatory basis take time and don't respond to short term impacts as quickly as the markets do. Um, we are seeing, um, you know, we are seeing lower demand, uh, associated with, uh, lower, primarily lower commercial and industrial demand. Although that is recovering, we have seen an expansion of greener resources in the market so far is meeting, they are able, they have been producing, but lower demand levels has implied more market share for them in the recent months, um, that likely will change as the demand improves. And we did see a lower emissions over the first six months of the year than we would have seen otherwise, but primarily that's driven by lower demand and greener resources than any other, um, exaggerated circumstances. So those are the things we're seeing from our perspective, there at Clearview, and I'll pass it back to you, Chris. Chris Namovicz: Thank you. So next up we have Ethan Zindler. Ethan is the head of the Americas branch of Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a provider of insight, data and news on energy, advanced transportation, commodities, and emerging technologies. He manages analysts and commercial teams in New York, Washington, San Francisco and San Paulo. While also overseeing climate scope, the project profiling, clean energy conditions in developing countries. He joined BNF in 2005 as its first U.S. employee and has held several positions within the group. Prior employment includes stints at the Cape Cod Times, the White House and MTV, Ethan as a senior associate at the center for strategic and international studies, energy and national security program, and holds an MBA from Columbia business school and a BA from Georgetown university. Ethan? Ethan Zindler: Thanks, Chris. And hi everybody. Um, it's a lovely spot out here in my little backyard, which was quiet until a moment ago when I say try and decide to go by from my apologies, but I'm just going to abscess on. Um, so first thanks for having me today. Uh, as as mentioned, when we're going the Africa division of Bloomberg energy market research for about 50 years ago, we tend to focus on the energy transition at large and the belief that the systems are fundamentally transforming decarbonizing, uh, as we move forward. So I'm going to make a few comments and I'll really build, uh, largely on what Christine had to say. I'm pretty much leave it, hopefully to fill in a few more blanks as we go. Um, as we look across the power sector left, obviously this higher economy radically effected by program, um, with retail activity, at one point in the, you know, being down, perhaps as much as 70%, um, and vehicle use being off as much as 70% during certain times of the year, particularly, uh, April looked like it was kind of economic activity. Um, we're obviously still seeing quite a rebound, but still things are tracking probably 10 to 20% below in terms of overall energy. But that's just totally, um, very early on guessing at this point. Um, I'm going to touch on though for a few minutes now about, um, about renewable generation. And I'm also gonna talk about, uh, demand overall. And I'm going to start pushing by just two quick thoughts on electricity. Um, first, um, is to note that, um, you know, one of the things that we have been we're getting at from Don was to try to look at the actual consumption versus what consumption would have been on some kind of a BABU, um, circumstance, which is not an easy thing to do. You have to factor in weather and other things like that week. Um, it's not sufficient, I think in our view to just compare electricity consumption in this year to last year, um, there are different factors at all. Um, but based on that very simply, uh, Oh, lastly, over simplifying things, we think that us consumption of electricity through, um, through the end of September was about, only about 3% below what you would have expected under view. Um, and that's not a very big difference given what we've seen in terms of a drop in demand for road fuels. Um, April and May. Um, you know, we saw some dramatic declines various times, um, but a lot of that has bounced back. And one of the main reasons of course, is that while we've definitely seen lower the bands and the art and industrial segments, uh, for electricity, um, residential demand has gone up, uh, it hasn't entirely one hasn't entirely offset the other. Um, but it certainly played a major role in which U.S. with the total amount of electricity consumed. It's not the down all that much, um, over overall, uh, the impact on pricing, as you might also imagine when wholesale prices wholesale electricity prices were down to the first half of the year, anywhere from 10 to 20% is a reasonable range, depending on what you're talking about, uh, around the U.S. um, but basically the wholesale prices have been under pressure and that are anyway, uh, from proliferation of cheap, natural gas and renewables. Uh, and this year really only compounded that situation, um, to a fairly substantial degree. When we think about actual clean energy bills [train horn] for this year, uh, you know, we are, we, we do, uh, you know, our, our projections twice a year, our last one was in April. I'm going to do another one in another couple of weeks. Uh, and at the moment, you know, our view is that we think about 25 to 27 gigawatts of new wind and solar are going to get built in the U.S. um, that's actually up a bit from where we were, what we were saying in April, which of course was kind of at the darkest moment of, uh, in terms of thinking about what the economy is going for. When do we think we'll probably see about 13 to four at 14 gigawatts, um, built this year and solar there'll be somewhere arrange the range of 12 to 13. I'll break that down by segment is just a second. Um, but the reason why we were pretty pessimistic earlier this year is because at the height of some of these outbreaks, it was pretty uncertain. What, um, the shutdowns, lockdowns in different states was going to mean for actual activity around construction. Um, and as you saw outbreaks in some infection plants, um, and the picture didn't look good. But actually, um, in many cases, um, a lot of activity has continued on. Uh, and just generally speaking on each of the utilities scale side, the level of interruptions has not been particularly high. Um, so that brings me to solar where, uh, for solar works back in about nine gigawatts, um, we'll be dealt with each other scale, solar up from about seven and a half last year. Um, and that's a segment that has been really, um, has done fine. Um, given the current circumstances where there's been more challenges that are on distributed generation, distributed solar, um, in particular, um, commercial CNI sector through solar, um, where the number will probably be down a bit from last year, uh, and on the residential side, probably at the end of the day, somewhere around where it was, um, last year, a lot of factors at play here. Um, obviously when we really went into lock down and no one allowing anybody into their homes and, you know, that was the worst for the residential solar sector. Um, but over time, things have obviously loosened up a bit and actually a lot of us are spending a lot more time, you know, here at home and thinking about ways that we can improve on the places that we live. I think that's actually gonna be beneficial to the sector. So net will probably end up more or less where we were last year using installations, at least that's our early, um, estimate for 2020. I'm gonna finish by just saying a couple of quick things to sort of echo from the assessment that Christine was saying that, but overall, can we, you know, we think that electricity would be down a bit. Um, um, uh, some of the trends that we've seen over the last 10 years will continue maybe exacerbated this year. When you look at the final numbers with natural gas up, probably having 40% of generation from about 38% last year, ah, renewable energy generation could top 20% and she'd been feeding a large high Joe, uh, and then maybe most notably the call numbers to [inaudible] me to, to really decline in coal. Uh, total generation could fall below 20% for 2020. Isn't all things done when you add all that up, which is, you know, lower total demand clean air demand, then that obviously have very positive impact on your mission. Um, you know, we could see a mission has dropped, uh, the power sector back to some kind of level maybe before, by the time all obviously another quarter to go and we'll have to see what the weather's like, and a lot of other things, but the decline has been dramatic. And one thing that does seem certain obviously is that the power sector, um, will continue not to be the number one sources in the U.S that will title will continue to be held by, um, by transportation. But it's actually possible that, uh, when all is said and done that the power sector will become the third largest behind industry behind [inaudible]. Uh, and so that's some of the stuff that we're watching, um, as we have to round out, um, year in January and trying to understand what happened to you with is certainly an eventful and crazy, but that, let me hand it back to Chris and half of the two questions you get. Chris Namovicz: Alright, thanks, Ethan. Next we're going to have Chris Pilong works as the director of operations planning for PJM and is responsible for the transmission operations department generation department and outage analysis technologies departments. These departments perform near-term transmission outage analysis and approvals generation outage analysis and approvals annual black start unit commitment, as well as gas, electric coordination, your term load forecasting, solar forecasting, and wind forecasting. Previously, Mr.Pilong was responsible for the oversight of the dispatchers that operate and maintain the reliability of the PGM portion of the Eastern interconnection. Prior to that, uh, Chris worked as the manager of the reliability engineering department at PJM performing day to day transmission outage analysis, as well as real time coordination of good activities with neighboring RTOs and ISS. Chris has a Bachelor's in Science and Electrical Engineering from Lehigh University and a Master's of Business Administration from Villanova, and uh, over to you Chris. Chris Pilong: Thanks Chris, and good afternoon. And good morning for some people, depending upon where you're, uh, dialed in from today. So good to be here. It gives you guys a, a bit of insight from the PGM perspective on the impacts from COVID. Um, before we get into that though, just to touch briefly on the PJM, if you're not familiar with us, we're operating the power grid as well as, uh, the, uh, clearing the markets from a, uh, they had near term and sort of a longer term capacity perspective, uh, for, uh, an area of the grid, the mid Atlantic, um, really ranging from, uh, New Jersey, uh, shared across all the way through to Northern Illinois. Uh, and then down through Virginia, uh, it's about 65 million people, 180,000 megawatts or so of generating capacity. Uh, and then, uh, varying load forecast, which we'll talk a little bit about here that help us clear some of, uh, some of the various markets that we have. Um, I'll touch first on some of the near term impacts that we've been seeing. Um, so similar to some of the prior comments, uh, we have absolutely seen a reduction in the demand, uh, from a result of the pandemic. Uh, and those reductions have had sort of shifted, uh, over the last, uh, several months here, um, as everybody is, is fairly well aware, um, or if you're not well aware, um, New Jersey, um, New York city, which is not part of the PJM territory, but those sorts of surrounding areas were very initially, uh, uh, outbreak areas, hotspots, uh, from the virus. Uh, so we saw some, some pretty significant and rapid closures of businesses schools, uh, really having everybody working from a remote telecommuting perspective back in the March timeframe. Uh, when we look at the, the spring time period, is it a time period of more of more moderate load, uh, or system demand. Um, we saw about a 10 to 12% reduction in the peak each day, as well as about a 10% in the overall energy. So when you think about the use over the full 24 hour period of the day, so those are the reductions that we saw in the spring. Um, as we moved into the summertime period, the reductions, uh, really kind of dampened down, um, what we, what we really saw was once the heat moved into the territory and the humidity, uh, the, uh, air conditioner, uh, load really, really picked up. Um, we also did start to see some, some, some of the restrictions ease, but really more of a function from the air conditioner loading. Uh, the reductions were not, not as significant. So it was down from the, a peak perspective about a 3% reduction than we would normally expect given similar weather and conditions, uh, and about a 5% reduction in the, uh, the energy usage on those summer days. Um, we're, we're just starting now to get into our more moderate fall temperatures. Uh, now got into the, the upper sixties and seventies. We're not seeing the, uh, the air conditioner loading. Um, we are seeing, uh, again, a bit more of an impact from, uh, from the pandemic. Um, but with, uh, further reopenings of businesses, many schools, either doing hybrid, uh, hybrid sessions with some virtual, some in class, uh, or some going into full in class sessions. Uh, we see now that our demand reduction is about the 7% from a peak perspective and five to 7% on, on energy. So the, the sort of impacts kind of EDS a bit in the summer, and they are coming back, uh, back here again in the spring. Uh, the winter will be interesting to see how, how, uh, how that's impacted. Um, so with, from a kind of a tie back into some of the market perspective, uh, from a day ahead market, which we're clearing, making sure we have enough capacity cleared to run for the, uh, the next day to meet the demand, as well as our realtime pricing, we haven't seen significant impacts to, to the clearing prices. And, uh, as sort of previously mentioned, a lot of that is really because, um, the geographic area where PJM is located is sort of right on top of, uh, Marcellus shale. So there is, uh, an abundance of very cheap, natural gas and natural gas tends to really set the clearing price, uh, for our generation, uh, and, and such the clearing price across our markets. And they had real time perspective. So that's really what sets the price. And there really hasn't been too much of a change there, but again, with a net reduction of energy usage, there is a net reduction in the overall market. Um, shifting gears a little bit now from a kind of a longer term perspective, what are we thinking the impacts are really going to be? So to mention, we've been seeing, uh, you know, about, uh, to, uh, officially over the peaks, which is what we use for, uh, clearing our longer term capacity market. When we look at the peaks over the next several years, uh, they're based on a summer peak, we are seeing that they're down, um, and we're basing our forecasts, uh, off, uh, in particular economic data. So Moody's economic, uh, data, uh, showing reductions in the GDP, which is going to have a reduction to businesses, uh, and a reduction to the overall demand, uh, for the system. So we're looking at, uh, for 2021, uh, about a 1% reduction in our summer demand. Uh, we'll see how, how the pandemic plays out. So these numbers can obviously change, uh, by 2022, that impact is down to about a half of a percent. So when I say it hasn't moved percent impacts, we had an original forecast for 2020 to about 151,000 megawatts for a summer peak. And we're down now at about 150,000 megawatts. This is a summer peak, um, and based off of the, the projected economic recovery by 2025, uh, we, we see that we are back to sort of a non pandemic influenced, uh, load forecast. So from a market clearing perspective, they're not huge megawatt amounts, and they are showing sort of a shorter term, uh, impact, which would from a longer term investment in new generation resources, not expecting there to be a significant impact of their sort of either way, uh, and maybe a few earlier generation retirements than otherwise would have materialized if they were sort of on the cusp of retiring. But other than that, not seeing any significant potential differences for the longer term there either. So I will, I will stop there, turn it back over to Chris and looking forward to questions. Chris Namovicz: Alright, thank you, Chris. Uh, finally we have Justin Baca. Justin is the Vice President of Markets and Research for the Solar Energy Industries Association. Uh, he manages C as market research and policy analysis portfolio, which he helped build over the past 12 years and includes the quarterly U.S. solar market insight. See as major solar projects list. Solar means business, um, cooperation with partners and solar workforce analysis and frequent policy analysis. Since 2015, he has managed CEO's codes and standards work, which focuses on the building electrical and fire codes and product standards that govern the mechanics of how solar projects are permitted and constructed in the U.S. Justin also oversees the PV recycling work and expansion of CS workforce development initiatives with partner organizations. Justin holds a Master's of Public Administration from the Maxwell School and a BA in Government from Cornell University and welcome Justin, it's yours now. Justin Baca: Thanks Chris. Um, so I mean, I, I agree with a lot of the, um, comments the other folks have made here. You know, this is, uh, everyone's first pen to make them, we're all trying to learn a little bit about, um, epidemiology and how this is going to impact everything going forward. So I like to start reminding myself that, um, as much as I think I have learned in the past few months about how things might play out, I fully expect additional curve balls. So everything has higher aerobars on it now. Um, but I'd like to start off by, uh, talking about sort of the material impacts earlier on. So, uh, starting in, in March, when we started, we had the lockdowns and, uh, California, New York, Washington state spreading to broader parts of the Northeast and then Atlantic, and then elsewhere, we started seeing, uh, very significant, um, uh, stoppages in, uh, particularly residential, um, solar installations. So this is because, um, these activities, or either considered non essential or considered to be non essential once their work had had, had finished. And you had, you couldn't start a new project. And so the nature of residential solar installations is that sometimes it can be constructed in as little as one day. So it's pretty easy to find except that work and then not be able to start a new project. And so very quickly we heard about, you know, solar companies laying off their entire staff and, you know, coming into, uh, to may, uh, we estimated that tens of thousands of solar employees had been laid off at that point. Um, you know, probably totaling a 40% reduction with where, from where we had expected solar employment to be at that time, uh, before the pandemic. And so it was pretty substantial. And, and, and in the end, uh, we saw what turned out to be about 25% reduction in residential installations in the second quarter, compared to the first quarter in the first quarter was already somewhat impacted just, um, in the last month there in March. So it's a pretty substantial impact. Now we have started to see, uh, a low return where, um, you know, since the lockdowns have been eased and we've, we're moving into progressively more open, uh, open phases in different States, um, if are getting more comfortable in certain activities. And, and a lot of solar companies are actually reporting pretty strong demand. And this would be a combination of impacts from, I think, what Ethan said, you know, people are spending more time at home, they're using a little more power at home. They're looking around and seeing what things  they can fix. Uh, so there's some of that. Back, in California, we have people being at home and facing the prospects of public safety power to shut off. And, you know, that's having an impact on demand for battery backup, uh, with, uh, solar system. And so they're on the demand side. There's still a lot of interest, but we still, I have lingering issues on the labor supply side where, uh, well, most solar workers have been, have come back. Some have declined to come back because, um, you know, maybe they've got kids at home and kids are, um, their kids may or may not be going to school full time. And so some people are making decisions there to hold off on returning to work, or maybe working part time. Um, just as you know, virtually everyone has experienced at some level or another over the past six months. And also, you know, companies are wary of hiring new employees, um, with only so many months left in the year to bring those employees up to speed, ensure quality control, and then facing, um, a step down in the investment tax credit, uh, Ion January 1st and not knowing what that will mean for their ability to maintain those new employees. Uh, no one's interested in hiring people and then letting them go right away. So, um, you know, a lot of companies are, are working full out, uh, right now with the employees they have. Um, but with a lot of uncertainty, um, I'll say some other things that have impacted the industry, uh, since, uh, since March is, uh, you know, permitting departments shut down as well. And so this was something of a really, uh, sort of mixed bag for the industry. And I think, um, for other industries as well, and that is that a lot of permitting department departments and there's, you know, over 15,000 individual authorities having jurisdiction in the U.S. that, um, know oversee building, permits, electrical, permits, and such. Um, they, a lot of them have been working with paper since forever. Uh, and suddenly in March, a lot of them became very willing to accept applications via email they're processing stuff through email. They quickly look to find out how they could process stuff online. And, um, and, and, and many were actually doing inspections remotely where, uh, you know, construction workers out there with their phone using FaceTime or Skype and saying like, here's the electrical panel. And here's the, you know, uh, here's the flashing on the roof penetrations. And, um, and we actually may see some material, uh, improvement in the permitting and inspection processes going forward. And so, uh, while it was very disruptive for, uh, a month or so, um, a lot of building departments have, um, have figured things out. And so that that's something, whereas, uh, kind of, uh, a forced evolution of sorts for, uh, the way the industry does business. Um, similarly the way that residential solar company systems are sold as moved, um, mostly online now, almost entirely online. And there are a lot of expectations that that's going to be a fairly durable thing. We're going to see fewer, um, you know, like door to door sales or, you know, sales and, uh, and retail outlets. We'll see some of that come back for sure. But a lot of companies have found that there's some cost savings to be had there, which can improve their competitiveness. Um, the, another, another, um, thing that we're, we're still trying to work out how exactly it's going to impact the industry, but it doesn't look good right now is that the, um, the overall impact on financial markets, uh, while some of the largest banks that provide tax equity for, um, for utility scale solar systems and for third party owned and distributed generation systems, the largest ones are still financing projects to a certain degree. Some of the marginal providers of tax equity have dropped out. And so what we see here is a potential for projects that were on the margin to perhaps become unfinanceable very soon if, if they haven't already, you know, failed to secure tax equity financing already. And so, um, there are policy asks that we have out there to address this, um, and are working with Congress. But, um, as of right now, there is certain, there is uncertainty looking into 2021 and 2022 in particular about, um, the level of installations that will ultimately be completed, um, based on their ability to secure tax equity financing. Um, that said, you know, I think, you know, you can have mentioned that some of the forecasts had gone up a little bit and, uh, that's something we agree with on the out here is that, um, you know, uh, 20, 23 has some, some upside potential, if the financing works out, this is sort of just the industry evolving on the price side faster than previously anticipated. Um, but with the downside potential from the overall financial markets, um, I will say though that the build buildout, the physical build out of, um, utility scale solar has been mostly, uh, undisrupted by, uh, the pandemic for the most part, uh, started projects were allowed to continue in every part of the country, um, with some mild exceptions and in New York. And, um, and we found that both the utility scale and residential and commercial rooftop systems that, you know, a lot of this work, you know, is done outside. It's done in field, it's done on rooftops and, uh, it's a pretty safe, uh, form of work. And so, you know, our hope is to, to build on that and, um, expand the solar industry, going forward as a source of good safe jobs, uh, while other parts of the economy, um, and have a harder time recovering in a safe way. Um, and so, uh, overall I would say, uh, yeah, it's definitely going to be a rough year for the distributed generation sector, the solar industry. And, um, you know, we had expected it to be erect a record year for distributed generation, uh, that is going to be down. Um, we will see overall growth this year, but it is entirely due to the previously anticipated, um, large ramp up in utility scale solar systems. And, um, a lot of that was based on getting systems done, uh, shortly after securing, um, uh, commence, construction revision under the investment tax credit. Um, I think, I think we're good looking forward to questions. Thanks a lot Chris. Chris Namovicz: Thank you, Justin. So one thing I think I heard in a number of presentations, I wanted to throw it back to the panel is, you know, maybe there is a bit of a silver lining in this, uh, in general for the power sector and especially for, for clean technologies in that, um, in the last recession that we had, you know, 10, 12 years ago, there was basically a collapse of the financial sector and that madee financing anything really difficult, but here is the, um, uh, although Justin did mention that, you know, certain marginal tax equity players might be a little bit, um, in a little bit of trouble, it's just a, it's a collapse of demand, but that the power sector is in some respect a little bit insulated the demand for electricity as we, we see is down a little bit, but not a whole lot. Um, especially when you look at like the capacity markets, um, is it perhaps possible that a silver lining in this is that there there's more equity available, more investors finance available, interested in sort of getting onto this, this lifeboat in a, um, very rough economic storm and I'll, I'll throw it out, I guess, uh, Christine, you want to take a first shot at that? Christine Tezak: Sure. Um, well, it, it depends. I think that, uh, in some ways we haven't really seen the proverbial lifeboat materialize. Um, certainly not in the form of the wonderful, uh, hulking ship that appeared in the American reinvestment and recovery act in 2009. Um, and in fact, so far to date in looking at what Congress has been contemplating in terms of, um, overall economic stimulus, the energy sector hasn't been, um, particularly successful in, um, getting a big shot in the arm from that respect. Um, but that is something that could arguably change depending on the outcome of the election. Certainly the House of Representatives is, uh, very focused in, um, integrating a green energy component into any economic stimulus that is going to help the country move forward, um, from this particular economic disruption. And certainly, um, we would expect that if, um, you know, if the Joe Biden were to succeed president Trump and particularly if the Democrats succeed in turning the Senate blue. So I think that, um, you know, in terms of, of really materially sized lifeboats, um, that that is something that they would still loom on the horizon. Um, I think that what we could see in, in the very near term is a bit of a distraction in terms of state policy makers, um, being more focused on, on areas of their economies that are struggling, um, versus necessarily jumping on board with moving significant policy initiatives that said, um, the fact that we are going to see an expansion of market share for renewables in the data that we'll wind up materializing by the end of 2020 may provide some wind at the proverbial back of, um, you know, policy makers to, to take the calculated risk that further raising, um, their, uh, renewable targets or accelerating their net zero, um, objectives is something that is, uh, worth contemplating, and that is something they can do and that they may need to do in order to sort of keep deployments rolling, as opposed to seeing them sort of stall out a little bit while demand recovers. So I think we see a little bit of a mixed bag near term in terms of, of soft policy issues that could change and that, um, you know, should we have a shift in, um, the alignment of, uh, power here in Washington? Um, after the election, we could see something more substantive along the lines of the very focused and very robust stimulus, um, for the, the clean and green technologies in the electricity space, akin to that which followed in, in 2009. Chris Namovicz: Thank you. Ethan you want to comment on that? Ethan Zindler: Yeah, I mean, I agree with Chris, Christina, that'd be certainly the, the, um, I mean, back to your original question, which is that in terms of thinking about silver lining? Um, I think Justin certainly identified one, if it, you know, if in fact it's, we're, we're, we're, we're now seeing expedited permitting U.S. traditionally has had some of the highest, um, non-equipment costs for distributed solar installations in the world, frankly, a lot higher than in Germany and elsewhere. So anything that can help reduce those costs, I think will make it more competitive in the long run. I suppose another piece of silver lining is, you know, maybe we do have more, even again, more people at home, we have extremely low interest rates. Um, and, and, and, uh, and that's certainly helping, I think as well. Um, and so I think those kinds of factors, that's probably about it for my list to silver linings other than perhaps, uh, this is like a, uh, you know, a secondary effect, getting back to what Christine said, which is that if in fact, um, you know, prompts the American public to the like Joe Biden president, and we got a $2 trillion, you know, package, uh, Christine next year, which is heavily focused on clean energy and energy generally. Yeah, I think that would obviously be done big shot in the industry overall, but that's to my mind that pretty much in the second. And the last thing I'll say is that I do think that this issue around financing adjustment is a real one, and we want to continue to keep an eye on you're exactly right Chris it's in the 2008, 2009 recession, um, essentially the spigots just closed for tax equity one day and the government stepped in to provide, uh, support that hasn't happened. I would add to that, I would say that they're, they're, they're tightened up and, um, and it's not, um, and you know, these decisions will get made by major financial institutions really quarter by quarter. I would imagine this year. And so I think that that's certainly something that we'd need to watch. Justin Baca: I would add to that, that. degree that some financial institutions continue to, um, have talks about earnings. Um, some looming questions for me are what happens once we fully felt the impacts of the fall off and, um, plan of benefits and the reduced consumer spending their inability to pay mortgages on time and that sort of thing, anything that could show institutions in a way that trickles down to the ability to finance, um, renewables projects that rely on tax equity. So, um, I, I think, you know, Christine, Chris, you're all right, you know, it's, um, it's different than 2008, 2009, but we're seeing some of the same patterns without the same direct, um, federal support. Chris Namovicz: Okay. Thanks. You have anything Chris you want to add to the discussion of silver linings in general, or, uh, the finance in particular?  Chris Pilong:Yeah, I think the other panels kind of covered this one, this, this hits an angle that is probably outside sort of the, the realm of PJM. Um, so yeah. I think they covered it well. Chris Namovicz: Okay. Um, I'll, I'll give you one then that I think is more along the, in the realm of, uh, of PJM and your concerns that you mentioned the shift, uh, uh, between commercial and residential. Uh, there's also noted in at least parts of the country, uh, maybe in general, that EVs are starting to take off a little bit. So the combined, when you sort, of sort all of this out, you would expect things like the load shape to change and maybe even change the peak. Cause right now the peak is sort of the result of the overlap between commercial and residential is occurs when people, some people are still at work and some people are coming home and some people are going out to the grocery store and whatnot. And if that all shifts and then people are charging up their cars when they get home or, or things like that, do you see any long-term, you know, shift or, or accelerating trends towards, um, shifting of when peaks occur or how billowed shapes, and as a follow onto that, do you see that effecting sort of the economics of, of what would make sense to as a resource to serve that peak is, you know, solar, for example, may or may not hit the peak in many places, because it's a very, has a very specific time of day shape shifting and peak earlier might help solar later. It might hurt solar or things like that. Right? Chris Pilong: Yeah, no, that's a great, great thought, great line and sort of question there. Um, so we actually did see some, some initial changes, uh, even immediately from when the, um, sort of pandemic first hit. Uh, I don't know if you're, if you're like myself, I used to get up much earlier in the morning, but now that we're working remotely, I'm still, you know, online at work at the same time, but I probably get up an hour later, an hour and a half later than they used to get up in the morning. So, and I think a lot of people were doing that. So we actually saw that, that shift where, uh, uh, mornings we call it a morning ramp where the load and the demand starts to increase shifted to the right by about an hour. So that was, uh, a bit of a, a shorter term, um, type of an impact there. Um, but thinking longer term and some of the impacts that it can have, uh, to our, uh, capacity market, the way we sort of determined the amount of capacity you need today is really looking at the peak. And the peak is driven by what the demand is. So that's really the peak amount of energy you need is based on the peak demand at the time. Um, but what we're seeing now is as we have resources more and more of 'em that are not always available, they're not 24 hour resources. So there's different intermittency, whether it's wind, whether it's solar, whether it's storage or any other type of, of a renewable resource they're intermittent. So at the peak of the day, you may not have that capacity. So we we've started to shift a little bit. Um, and there was a comment I saw in the chat there about impacts of the first quarter, eight 41 incenting, more storage. So we are seeing in our longer term cues of new generation, still natural gas, solar, and batteries. Um, and the, the further out cues, um, are, are seeing more and more batteries start to come in now. So what that's really made us realize is taking a look and trying to procure capacity, you know, three years ahead of time, which is what were, what was, what we currently do. Just looking at the peak hour, probably isn't sufficient anymore. So we've been using, um, uh, or just started, um, using a new method. Um, and we should not clear an option using this method yet to call it, uh, the effective load carrying capability or ELCC. Some of you may be familiar with that. It's been around for decades, um, as a concept, but really trying to look and say, what are the hours that have the most risk where you're not able to serve load? And that can shift historically, it's been the peak hour, but at least in the PJM territory, that's sort of change other areas of the country that have a much higher levels of renewables already have some of this in place, but we're seeing, um, that sort of changing model, not just looking at the peak hour, but really looking at all hours of the day, finding where is the most risk and what resources are able to help manage and mitigate that risk. And when you have resources, every resource has a trade off. Some of them may be for their 24 hours, but they're going to be high polluting type resources. So that's a downside, wind and solar non-polluting resources, not they're all, all hours, day, uh, storage resources, uh, can ramp up and down at a moment's notice, extremely great flexibility, which is excellent for trying to maintain reliability system. But again, they need to have a time to charge before they can discharge the energy. So all of those complexities, along with any potential changes that, you know, longer term for human behavior, probably not going to have too much of an impact on all the demand shape itself. But when you think about the amount of demand you have to serve with varying resources, that's where we're really starting to make some of those changes to look at it more from an hourly type perspective and get the right balance with the right, the right mix of resources, to be able to reliability or, you know, reliably maintain the system, which is going to include more and more and more renewables, more and more storage. Chris Namovicz: Need to take myself off mute before I speak. Uh, do you see any impact from the EVs? Or, are you planning for any impact how that might affect, uh, the whole, um, dispatch and capacity next? Chris Pilong: Yeah. That's one of the items that are longer term, uh, planners have started to look at. Uh, it'll be interesting to see again, sort of back to the previous comments about, uh, who's in office next, uh, listening into some of the Democrats plans and the Biden's plans with converting, I think the federal fleet to electric, so, and, and installing a significant number of electric charging stations around the country. If that does start to materialize, that's going to have a pretty big impact. So we're going to need to figure out exactly how that works. Um, we've actually already sort of, interestingly enough, um, uh, piloted, uh, some, some, uh, programs where we utilize those resources as they're connected to the grid, to be able to provide, we call ancillary services. So being able to not only charged from the grid, but also inject power into the grid as well. So there's actually some additional opportunities, uh, from, uh, from a Marcus perspective, uh, to utilize those resources. But yeah, definitely there be changes it's, uh, everybody comes home and everybody's plugging their, their, you know, their vehicles at the same time. But when, when, uh, the fraternity for work, it's going to have changed or our evening peak shape, whether it happens, then whether it happens overnight are all items that we're, we're considering not seeing huge impacts in the very, the very near term. Uh, I think in the next two, two years or so, but getting beyond that, and that's what we're going to have to really start stocking, start taking a hard look at where are we going, 10 years, 15 years from now, outside the scope of where are our capacity more clears today. But those are definitely things that we think are gonna be cool, gotta be happening. We're gonna have to have to be able to manage. Chris Namovicz: Thanks. Justin, want to comment on, um, sort of how load shifting either as a result of the economic disruption and the disruption work patterns, or the addition of EVs into the fleet is going to impact sort of how solar fits into the market? Justin Baca: Sure. I mean, I think there's, there's load shifting, um, to the home that, you know, creates interest in uh, you know, home solar. I think, you know, the battery thing was a trend before this. Anyhow, we started seeing a year or two ago a really sharp increase in the number of, um, utility scale plants that were incorporating storage as part of their base offering. And number of utilities are asking for it, um, it added value. And so, um, we are going to see more of that. And then on the residential side, I saw someone asked about this as well. I mean, we, we, we had already seen an uptick in interest in home batteries as, as a backup. Um, I think that, yeah, that, you know, the pandemic coupled with the public safety power shutoff is accelerating that. Um, but, uh, you know, it's, some of those are confined to, um, certain States, you know, so the California and Hawaii being, you know, sort of peak interest areas and, uh, but that's spreading out into other parts of the Southwest and, uh, we'll start seeing it more. And in other parts of the country, particularly if you're in a place that has, um, um, more liability issues or if you're really far out, um, you know, in the more rural areas where it's a bigger issue, um, we'll see that, but, you know, the battery prices are, you know, getting closer to competing with, you know, the standard, uh, you know, home backup generator or, or, uh, backup for, um, commercial purposes. I mean, it's, we're still a little ways off, but you know, these things kind of help with demand charge management. Um, there, there are a lot of, there's a lot of value to be had there both for individual customers, for utilities, for utility scale power producers, and, um, you know, the there's change in load shape. I, I think probably doesn't create, um, any challenges that weren't already being solved with the preparation for hiring, um, renewables penetration. And so I think that it's going to be relatively straightforward for us all to adapt to that. Chris Namovicz: Okay. Ethan, uh, Christine have any, anything to add to that, those responses? Uh, let's see. So I have a question about sort of the responsive energy markets in general, um, in previous, uh, natural disasters, specifically some hurricanes that we've seen over the last, you know, 10, 15 years, um, especially like 2005 is a particularly bad year. And those really rocked energy prices and are comparing the response of, um, back then to 15 years ago to now is the increased use of, um, fracking, natural gas, wind generation, solar regeneration. Are these the most critical reasons sort of, you know, causing a difference in response of energy markets? Are there other factors that work now that weren't at work? Uh, I'll, I'll start with Christine. Christine Tezak: Well, I think there's a bit of, um, you know, certainly the, um, new is the new structural pricing level in natural gas that has been realized through the, um, lower expenses associated with fracking has been extremely constructive. But I also think that it's important to note that, um, you know, to their credit, the renewable technology sector, chase gas down every step of that leg down in price. And I think that going forward, that's going to help operate to keep a cap on, on power prices to a significant extent, because the decline in natural gas prices, you know, when a lot of these, um, supportive programs were initially rolled out, you know, the structural price of gas was assumed to be North of $4, probably somewhere between six and eight and not in the, you know, two and a half to three and a half dollar level we've seen, um, for the last almost decade now. Um, and I think that to their credit, the, um, the renewable energy industries have really chased natural gas down that cost curve and have become a lot more competitive. And that's going to keep the, um, the pressure on prices. Now, the other thing we saw that I think is also very relevant is that, um, you know, when the clean power plan was, uh, stayed by the Supreme court, then a big driver for what was expected to be, um, an environmental regulation driving a portfolio rotation, um, didn't happen. Um, we've had a lot of emissions reductions. In fact, we've had almost all of the emissions reductions that were initially anticipated by EPA during the first years of that program have come to pass through through a number of things. But what we do have is we haven't really had the exit, the efficient exit that might have been, um, more, uh, better facilitated by that regulatory program that would've made it easier to get some older assets out of the stack. And so we not only have, you know, moderately priced natural gas, which is great. We have an increasingly competitive, renewable energy industry, which is great for consumers as well, but we also have a bit of structural over supply. Um, you know, Chris is probably familiar better than anyone on earth with, you know, the, the challenges you have when you have, um, you know, a lot of generation available. And none of it really feels like it's as profitable as it would hope to be. And so if you have a lot of over supply too, you have a, a challenge, um, as well. So I think it's a, it's a confluence of events. I also think that, you know, while it's really hard to elucidate, um, concretely, you know, the energy efficiency standards that were adopted in the 2007 RESA also have made a difference and we continually become, become more energy efficient as an economy. And that means we grow with, uh, with less energy demand per unit of GDP. So I think those other factors are also relevant. Chris Namovicz: Thanks. Ethan do you want to weigh in on this? Ethan Zindler: Yeah. I would agree with everything. I guess the only thing I would take issue with is I sort of been in power plan was a different, would have been a difference maker. I think we kind of felt at the NEF. We've always had a pretty optimistic view about um, renewables. And so I think we felt that that was a little bit cotton that anyway. Um, and so clearly politically fight around that important, but I don't know that it's driven the market as much as cheap natural gas ASCAP has normal prices. Um, the, but I would say more is more importantly, maybe just like a, the one thing that I would raise as a sort of small red flag we are seeing, um, uh, uh, yeah, so oil production has dropped now this month. I mean, his a global condition 20%, more or less, um, and the, um, you know, there's a fair amount of gas associated gas cause he's back. Um, well, well, there's oil well, there's plenty of gas that comes. It's just purely taken out of the ground, you know, clutch in Ohio and West Virginia, places like that. But there's a decent amount that's associated with oil production as well. If we see a very dramatic decline in oil production, it could put some upward pressure on natural gas, which insurance has to come up with pressure on power prices That's like a couple of steps down in Florida, but I think that's something to keep in mind. This is what the IEO [inaudible] released. When you're talking about energy people, you have to kind of make sure they understand that there's the oil markets over here, power markets over here, but this was kind of a little bit of interplay between. Chris Namovicz: Do you think that that, that pressure from the loss of associated production would be enough to sort of push what Christine said via sort of it used to be that people thought of $4 as being the natural equilibrium point for natural gas prices. And now it's looking more like two and a half, maybe $3 is loss of associated production enough to push it back up to the $4 range or? Ethan Zindler: I'm not, I mean, clear, I think this is sort of an Ohio thing. Something we should all probably watch and push it closer up to. Yeah. We're at the higher house. He is generally to stay around too for a long time, but you know, oil could have some impact, who knows? Chris Namovicz: Yeah. Uh, Chris, Justin, any, anything to add there? Uh, I'll move on to, um, some of the questions from the attendees. Um, there's a question about, uh, mergers and acquisitions and, um, to what extent are a lot of the newer trends, um, the emerging trends we've been talking about in terms of batteries and solar, um, to sort of affect the, the landscape in terms of, um, you know, having larger, even larger utilities or maybe, uh, more RTOs or, or maybe even, you know, the, the truck to bring back the hot topic of maybe five or six years ago, the utility death spiral, where, you know, the old model business model for utilities no longer seems to work. I'll start with, uh, Justin on that. Justin Baca: Um, well, I guess I don't have a lot to say about all that other than you know, maybe my approach to EVs seems like a pretty good thing for everyone involved in the power sector. Chris Namovicz: Okay.   Justin Baca: I'll just leave it at that. Ethan Zindler: I'll just say real quick. I think generally it's been a, it's been a tough time to be an independent power producer at a power plant owner, uh, overall the past 7 years. I think that uh, these mergers lead to mine, mine are potential markets to get closer to customers, um, and also potentially testimonies to get closer to some of the trends that might be happening more at the residential level. And therefore capitalize. Uh, I frankly, from a consumer point of view and don't think it's necessarily the other thing to happen than to ask the editor on it's gratuity, but uh I think this is one of the things driving these things. Chris Namovicz: Chris, do you see the, um, it's sort of a material change in the, the markets going on that might affect sort of the ability of, um, participants in PJM to, you know, their, their sort of pressures to, to consolidate operations or otherwise reorganize themselves is that, uh Christine Tezak: Haven't, haven't seen it so much in PJM, but you know, this week, certainly there was talk that, uh, next era was shopping again. Um, had sent some dozen roses over to Duke and, uh, Duke wasn't particularly enchanted by at least the particular dozen that came over. Um, so I think that there's questions about, you know, certainly there's an, you know, when there's, um, you know, a perceived opportunity, then there is, you know, there is the potential for transactions, you know, this is not the first time NextEra has been shopping. So, um, you know, they, they were trying, they tried to, I think they made a play for, um, the Hawaii utility. They were in the mix, um, when Encore was on the block. So, you know, it's, it's something that's, that may be a little more, um, driven by their, um, expectations or their desire to keep growing. Um, but it depends on which market you're in. I mean, I think consolidation, in some respects between utilities is easier in an RTO, um, because you do have this, um, uh, the separation of the opera, the transmission operations, and a, um, inability to argue that the um ability to prefer your own generation, um, is, is impeded by the independent market operator that is, that is present there. Um, in the Southeast, it would be more complicated. Um, I think you get back into standard antitrust stuff. You will have a big filing, not only at first, but at the Federal Trade Commission. And, um, you know, when you look at some of the trends that are going on in the Southeast, and, and I'm certainly not the acts on this, Ethan and, and Justin I'm sure have a better view on this than I do. I don't think the folks who are advocating for, um, more competitive generation supply would be wildly excited to see that sort of consolidation, especially with the implication as was suggested in some of the reporting on the next era, Duke tie up that the whole idea would be to like basically bring it all in house and find a new customer for next era stuff. And I think that that is not something, I think that's something that comes back to a bit of a conversation we haven't had in a little while. Um, in part, because as Ethan and Justin mentioned, you know, we don't have so many independent power producers publicly traded anymore, so you don't quite see that, um, that challenge, um, as readily, but, uh, you know, in the electric utility industry, there's certainly been this tension between David and Goliath that, uh, the Goliath would be the electric utilities and that, you know, they are not necessarily always the best deal for their customers. Although, you know, they do have regulators that make sure the deal's pretty decent. Um, but I think that it would be, you know, if you look at a big tie up in the Southeast, that one in particular could have some, some challenges, not because it would be an impediment to the rollout of clean technologies, but because it would run into other structural, um, parochial issues, if you will, in this space. Chris Namovicz: Right. Thanks. So we have a number of questions I see related to renewables policies and renewable subsidies. I'm going to generalize that some and actually direct the next question to Chris Pilong related to, um, all of the clean energy subsidies or the zero emissions credit subsidies that are going on in a lot of the PJM footprint and the, um, policy impact that that's had on, uh, especially with the FERC, uh, Moper rule. Uh, do you see policies continuing? How do you see that playing out in terms of, you know, we've seen the wave of, of coal retirement? Are there any long-term impacts to the capacity mix that you from, um, implementation of that? Chris Pilong: You touched on this a little bit, um, see if there's been a bit of a, of a hot topic and it's, uh, sort of, uh, I guess, align with one of the comments that Christina made earlier about sort of the efficient exit of resources. And that's hard to do, um, when you've got the sort of political pressures and, and the political visibility. When you think about somebody elected politician running for office, um, and a major, uh, coal plant that employs hundreds of people or a nuclear plant that employs thousands of people, it's no longer economically viable, um, for whatever reasons that may be. Uh, it could be an older technology that is just high costs. Um, uh, the demand may not be there for it. Um, but women then it comes to actually retiring that resource that is, that impacts the local community significantly. Um, and there can be other benefits too, outside of the local local community, especially talking with, with nuclear where you don't have quite the same level of emissions. You've obviously got the spent fuel to deal with. Uh, but there is also that sort of perspective and angle on it as well. And then the results is locally. They don't want the resource to retire, even though the market says retire. So rather than retiring it, it needs to be subsidized. You need to find a way for, for the resource, uh, to recover the costs of operating, as well as to making a little bit of a, of a, of a profit there, but you can't have people going into to work and they don't have a source of income. They're not going to stay there working. So that's where you ended up with this inefficiency in the market, where if we clear our market, and let's say there's 2000 megawatts of generation that really doesn't clear, it should retire yet, then it's subsidized and now it stays in the market. Well, okay, now we have 2000 megawatts of extra generation that we don't need. We're not paying for it. It's being subsidized outside the market. So that just serves to really incorrectly drive down some prices. Now you've got a mismatch between really what should be happening and really what should be happening is while resources they're going to have to retire. At some point, you do need to have that turnover. So older inefficient technologies are leaving newer, more efficient technologies, lower costs are entering each should have a proper balance of that. And the subsidy is really kind of just, just throw a big monkey wrench into all of that. And it's been having a pretty, pretty substantial impact in some areas of the market. So it's something we've been continuing to work with. Um, it's continuing to be a topic of discussion at the federal level, as well as at the state level. Um, so some of the things we're trying to do is obviously outreach to all those impacted parties and see is the market set up and designed to do what it should be doing. And our, our design, uh, had been provide energy at the lowest cost. That's the guiding principle, but if there are other guiding principles at even a state level, uh, thinking about renewable targets, uh, and things like that, does that need to be included in the market somehow? Um, so those are some of the discussions we're having, because we need to make sure that the market is clearing basically what the customers want. And the customers used to want low energy at the cheapest price. That's not always the answer. Now. I think some people are willing to say, Hey, I'll pay a little bit more. If it's going to be clean energy. As an example of you may have seen those things come through, uh, through your, uh, the mail to you from your local utility. So we know those, those changes are out there, sort of from a public perspective. Now it's a matter of how do we reconcile all of this and, you know, we don't have the solution at this point, but continuing to work towards that. And that is definitely shaping a lot of the discussions in our, in our capacity and energy markets. Chris Namovicz: Thanks. Anyone else want to comment on not necessarily the moper policy, but policies that they see as being impactful that are coming on the horizon, uh, the expiration of, uh, tax credits, renewable state, federal level policies. Justin Baca: Yeah. So I had mentioned earlier that part of the, um, you know, sort of, um, drag on recovery for solar and, you know, potentially much faster growth is this uncertainty around, uh, the investment tax credit stepped down where at 26% now we're going to be at 22% next year. Um, after that it drops to zero for direct ownership, presidential 10% for, um, uh, you know, commercial and utility. And so, yeah, that, that, that creates, you know, a challenge for the industry and our prices are coming down. And, you know, it's not a question of whether or not the industry will continue to exist. It will. Um, I think we've, we've crossed the tipping point to a certain degree that, you know, solar is competitive. Um, but it does, it does reduce the potential for growth, uh, and you know, for climate goals, if it's not, you know, just for employment goals, um, you know, I think we'd all like to see solar grow a lot faster and, um, you know, have the opportunity to provide new jobs where, you know, a 50 or 60 year old plant that, you know, at some point does need to retire. You know, there are gonna be other energy opportunities out there. Um, and so, you know, we certainly see a lot of growth, potential lists. Um, you know, we, we address the tax equity issues and, and look at, uh, a longer run for the ITC Chris Namovicz: Uh, a follow up Justin, the--you mentioned the ITC and the split between it going away entirely for direct ownership versus staying at 10%, the owned by businesses, a component of that initially when the wave of residential PV first sort of started, it was, it was sort of the result of, or led by companies that had sort of a lease model and they would build the panel and own it. And then they would have some arrangement with the customer to, to pay for the power, whatever, but there was a sort of a movement away from that. I'm not quite sure where it stands now, but do you see that the, the fact that, uh, the Lindley's people will have essentially a, um, or a third party ownership, people essentially have a 10% cost advantage on the installation as, as you know, presaging sort of a shift back to that ownership model, assuming that, that, that policy plays through as, as on the buck? Justin Baca: I mean, I don't think there's any really one right answer for that. I mean, there there's room for both, um, particularly considering, you know, some States you see can't really do third party ownership. And so those places you're going to continue to see, you know, purely, uh, loan and cash sales for, um, for distributed generation. Um, and as for, you know, how much of a difference 10% credit makes, uh, particularly as costs are falling, um, you know, there, there are transaction costs also associated with getting tax equity. Um, so, you know, I think overall it's just the bigger issue is that the pie is going to shrink moreso than what the pie is going to be. Chris Namovicz: Okay. Um, Ethan you want to say something about the about the policy issues? Ethan Zindler: Only on the ITC. I mean, I think they agree that it, um, you know, put a crimp in the solar market in the short run, but, um, you know, we're extremely optimistic in the long run, that this is what we've seen with the pricing globally. That eventually we see enormous growth. We've mentioned, our, our long-term projections 120 gigawatts, our long-term projection as just given by 2040. So, you know, it's going to happen one way or the other. Um, but, um, the ITC stepped down is not great news for the industry. But uh [inaudible] eventually. Chris Namovicz: Uh, Chris do you have anything else with policies that you see being impactful going forward? Christine Tezak: Uh yes. There's one thing we haven't touched on, or haven't talked about a lot here today, and that is a more tangential policy and, and that is actually the drive of, um, investors to push companies into, uh, more ESG stances, which ESG standing for environmental, social and governance approaches to their investments. And one of the things that, um, is continuing to drive, um, you know, certainly some larger commercial installations has been this pressure on companies, away from the energy sector to, um, green up their energy portfolio by, and they've done it. You know, we've seen a lot of it with the technology companies, uh, in terms of seeking to fully offset their, um, you know, their energy usage with green usage, you know, the Amazon's of the world and the Microsoft's pushing forward for that kind of thing. And so I think that that is something else that also continues to foster. Um, it's a, it's a policy perspective, but not really a government driven policy perspective, as much as it is this ESG movement that is becoming more and more focused on, um, the, uh, you know, moving forward with, um, you know, a, a lighter footprint on the environment overall. And, and, you know, that makes us, you know, continue to think that, you know, uh, to, to Justin's point that the tax equity market will completely evaporate. You know, the banks may not necessarily need to offset their taxes, but hopefully other, um, industrial companies will continue to, to move that direction and, you know, need to green up there. Um, you know, not necessarily through tax equity support, but through procurements that would, you know, support projects. Um, even if there's a little bit, as Chris mentioned a little bit higher cost associated with those because of the overall strategic focus. Ethan Zindler: I want to jump in and say, you know, obviously one of the beauties of being at home that you can talk when other people are talking. Um, but, uh, and some numbers around that, you know, we saw about 15 gigawatts of, um, uh, corporate TPA signed in America last year, mostly. Uh, and that was up from about nine to before was a record of 20 total. Which was a lot for corporate TPAs [Inaudible]. So that's exactly right. There's a market, although that is one area this year, it's probably gonna hit, um, in part because of Covid. And so far the first two quarters of this year, we've had about 8 gigawatts uh, in, the Americas but but again that's I'm just going to do a little bit from last year, but generally speaking, we look at the total number of members under the red 100 and other types of things, a lot of corporate demands, kind of. Chris Namovicz: So to segue a little bit, um, sort of from that, that discussion of, of people companies from outside the energy sector with their, um, ESG policies to focus on, um, a slightly different angle on that. And that's companies such as from the oil and gas industry VP or whatever who has now decided that they want to diversify their energy portfolio and are starting to try and make headway into the wind and solar market. Uh, how do you see that as a potential disruptor or, you know, agent of change in the electric power sector? Ethan? You, well, I'll take anyone who wants to respond, but, uh Ethan Zindler: I think I'll go first, I hope others will speak up too. I mean, just generally speaking that the volumes of capital that these companies principal sector effector, um, obviously it's enormous, and that has the potential to, uh, earlier conversation about availability of capital for projects. Um, you know, BP just you just got into partnership, uh, put a billion dollars into partnering on an offshore wind project, um, in the Northeast. Uh, so that's, that's generally, I think, good if it's bad, again, getting back to the old model of IDP, throw it back by private equity, you know, money was expecting 10, 15, 20% rates of return. Um, these projects are gonna generate kick out returns more like five to 10%, and that's something that's like BP can take on potentially as can. Um, uh, and then, and now, or some of the other than national, um, utility um developer for dissension over the last five years. So I think that's generally good for U.S. power. One thing I will say is that I, I do, I am curious to see how BP's investors, and industries use their power and um, And Shell and BP in particular in what changes they've made using electricity. How they will view those companies going forward. Um, because as you guys might who operate in power sector, If you earn on power [inaudible]. While it's often safer and more reliable, or our genuinely often had a pie, which is gas explanation, and uh, whether or not the investors in these companies fully understand that and are comfortable with that. I think those things are open the questions that identify that. Christine Tezak: But I think that you know, Ethan makes an important point when it comes to the cost of capital. It's not necessarily always the absolute number, you know, um, that is, that is metrical . It's, it's the risk reward. And as Ethan said, you know, there's a willingness to put money to work when you, you know, when it's perceived to be, or can be, um, risk mitigated and is considered to be more stable and more reliable. So as long as you have a PPA that actually endures and you don't wind up signing it with a utility company that goes bankrupt and seeks to reject it, um, then you're really usually in pretty good shape. So I think that, um, you know, there's been quite a bit of conversation, um, about marrying up the offshore oil industry with the offshore wind industry, bringing exactly the expertise in working in particularly adverse environments and managing rigs that, you know, that slope, um, and, and bringing the two technologies together in order to, you know, to make the whole industry grow faster is something that's been, you know, I, I think it's been in the wind for a couple of years in terms of conversation, sorry about the incredibly bad puns. Um, but I think that what you, you know, there, there is an interest. I mean, there's a shift in where economies are going and where corporates, um, are being driven in terms of their social bargain in terms of being more, um, considerate of interests beyond simply the bottom line of their owners. But this ESG stewardship issue with is their role in society more generally. And I think that I'm seeking a more benign impact on the environment is, is a part of that. That's not necessarily going to go away now. I think that, you know, it is not unfair. Some folks think that this is greenwashing and, and in some respects, I would say that there's evidence that, uh, has there have been projects that, that, well, um, don't know, represent that particular pejorative. Um, but I think that, you know, you are seeing, you know, diversification and it's about risk. You know, you can't have all of your eggs in one basket. And if petroleum is something that is, you know, being identified as a component of the economy that, that governments and now corporations are increasingly trying to, you know, to migrate away from then it would seem that if you had any sense of fiduciary responsibility at all, you'd be trying to get more on board with that trend. If it doesn't look like it's going to stop. Chris Namovicz: So, um, we, we saw maybe 10 years ago or so of indications from the financial community that they, uh, at least a few high profile actors came out as out, we're not going to finance coal plants anymore. And that, um you know, I think has kind of built up over the years. Do we see that happening now with gas, or do you see the potential that having happening now with the gas plants or maybe even gas projects, where are because of the whole ESG um, movement, the banks, the finance financial community, you might be more reluctant to, um, even back natural gas is a, um, you know, long-term generation, uh, profile portfolio risk? Christine Tezak: Well, we certainly haven't seen it firsthand in terms of the, um, the natural gas. Um, yet I think that there's still, you know, given the alignment of sort of the industrial complex and what we have invested in terms of engines and, and supply and that sort of thing. I think that the, it is easier to take the emissions moral high road, um, when it comes to oil and gas than it is on natural gas at this point. Um, but, you know, given how unusual the world is and where the trends are going, it's, um, you know, it would appear full hardy to rule it out. Um, but there's still a lot of work being done, um, you know, throughout the, the fossil complex on, you know, trying to make the solution in terms of, can you, can, can you come up with something that makes sense on carbon capture that could manage, um, the continuation of, of making use of fossil fuels given the fact that they do have some wonderful energy density, um, when it comes to just what they store in their natural form that I think that, uh, you know, the, the thing that could be a real game changer is if there is a breakthrough on that, that, that makes it more affordable financially. And, and that could, it may not save coal per se, because of the trend away from coal, not only on the emissions basis, but because of the other environmental consequences of mining. Um, but with the lighter touch of of fracking, um, compared to conventional exploration and stuff like that, I think that if you got a CCS solution, it could, it would probably disproportionately benefit natural gas. Anyone else want to weigh in on that uh, question? Ethan Zindler: I'll also offer a jaded view on all this. Um, you know, I think which is um, Christine Tezak: Well then stop agreeing with me! Ethan Zindler: [laughter] no I think, I think I am going to from that, but anyway. Um, if my jaded view on it is say financial institutions tend to agree to stop financing things, once they realize those things don't make any money. And, um, so the push on call became pretty easy. Um, you know, several years ago, no one wants to find a call anyways I've got anyways, I got the money pretty easily. [Inaudible]. It's not a password, or it was definitely seen a bit more of that around oil exploration, but even getting a little bit easier. When you have companies like BP and others, acknowledging that we are reaching or have reached some kind of peak in oil demand. Natural gas is going to be a difficult and different one, I think potential or let's focus on, we're not there yet with natural gas. And um, I think it's going to be very interesting to see what happens over the next 12 months, with includes the environmental community putting natural gas in their sights. Nat gas is the number one. [Inaudible]...the power sector. And um, because it's now more or less double of coal generation, um, it's just about there that raises its profile that we'll get more profile. [Inaudible]...give some pressure. And so we'll be more pressure on regulation potentially, again, depending on the election. Um, and then eventually that might eventually come back to more pressure on financial institutions, but I don't right at this moment. And I'm agreeing with Christine backing off natural gas, I think this is the moment for that. Chris Namovicz: Alright, good. Uh, change tracks kind of quick. I think we got time for maybe one more, um, on the responses here, I'm going to sum their shift to get a question on offshore uh wind, offshore renewables. I'm going to start with, uh, Chris Pilong to say, I, I believe there were a couple of projects, offshore wind projects that are, um, sort of in the works in the PJM footprint or, or, uh, you know, around there. Do you see a pick up or drop off an interest in an offshore wind? Is that, um, is that going to be a player in the near to midterm future in PJM? Chris Pilong: Yeah. Yeah, I think it definitely will. Um, there's a, um, actually, uh, I think there were in the initial stages of, uh, what's going to ultimately be about a 2,600 megawatt offshore wind farm, uh, connecting in off of a Virginia Beach area. Um, it, you see, just, just seeing some information the other day, that's just beginning its pilot phase. So it'll still be a few years where they're, they're ramping up construction on that one fairly quickly. Um, I think so there's kind of probably two drivers here. The first being the state, uh, sort of the state mandates, the state renewable portfolios, um, Virginia is very aggressive. You've probably seen what they've put out in our Virginia, uh, clean economy act, uh, looking for certain amounts of onshore offshore, wind and storage has a big driver there. I think we'll see some off of the coast of New Jersey. Uh, there's been interest there. Um, they're under development, uh, up, it's not the PGM territory, but, uh, up in new England, um, as well, I think too, I mentioned earlier our, uh, our, our shift, uh, from, uh, from a capacity perspective of using that ELCC model. Um, so for, for, for PJM, traditionally, a wind farm, uh, we have no offshore wind farms and we just had a, uh, a static factor of 13% for wind resources. That's the capacity they could clear. So a hundred megawatt, wind farm would only be paid and, you know, really clear for 13 megawatts of capacity. But the ELCC model that I should is giving us more flexibility for onshore and offshore wind too. So offshore wind is most likely going to have a higher ELCC value, meaning it can clear at a higher megawatt output than onshore wind, mainly because if you've been out on all the ocean, the wind is pretty much always blowing. So the capacity factor would be much higher there unless there's major weather conditions that would, uh, have the, have the unit shut down. So sort of between the state, uh, the state mandates and some of the laws that are out there as well as having a higher capacity factor in our market, that's going to help that said it's still a lot more costly to try to deliver the wind energy from out in the middle of the ocean, have those turbans able to withstand, uh, all of the, the elements that they have to deal with out there, as opposed to a wind farm that is, uh, you know, located inland, uh, and is, and is physically more close to the electric grid. Typically what we see is the, the wires sort of get thinner as we get towards the, the edges of the system down towards the shore point. Uh, so it can be a little bit more difficult to interconnect in a little bit more costly and interconnected as well as that, that lengthy line that may be several miles long running under the ocean floor there. So they're all higher costs. So whether that offsets the, uh, uh, increased ELCC value, we'll see, or we are seeing that there are some, some substantial ones in our queue. Chris Namovicz: Anyone else want to weigh in on, uh, the prospects for offshore wind domestically or internationally? Ethan Zindler: I'll just say there's been about 10 headaches for offshore wind in the last 20 years, that I've been in the business, and I'm about this time but we think it's still if it doesn't make money and if there's no development, no commitment about developers but uh, so we, we're quite optimistic. I'm projecting and think we should have offshore wind in 2030. But we think [inaudible]. Chris Namovicz: Okay. I think with that, um, we're just about out of time. So I'd like to, again, thank the all of our panelists, uh, Christie, Chris, Ethan, Justin, uh, thank you very much, uh, in clap and, um, and Kelsey's going to be putting up. Yeah. So things for everybody who, uh, who called in today to listen and ask your, uh, interesting questions and contribute to what I thought was a very, uh, interesting and informative discussion. I know it will help, uh, EIA and I hope it helps all of you as well. Uh, thank you. If you joined in our previous workshops on macro demand and the petroleum natural gasoline earlier this week, I would point out that the, uh, that there'll be a transcript or recordings, and uh to the extent there were presentations slide through any of these will be posted on our website at the address um, shown. Um, once again, now they need to be, uh, closed captioned before we can post them. So it might be, you know, a short delay, but if you have any follow up questions, um, please email our annualenergyoutlook@eia.gov email address. And uh, I hope everyone has a, a nice rest of the, uh, today. I don't know how it is where everybody else's, but it's a beautiful day here in Washington, DC So, um, get out and enjoy it. Christine Tezak: Thank you, Chris. 