 in this episode we will describe the internal structure of an lcd screen understanding of the internal architecture of this kind of screen allows to better understand the role of the TCON card the term lcd is an abbreviation english de liquid crystal display in French we call it afficheur à cristaux liquides the screen is sometimes called panel or dalle. the lcd screen is made of a assembly of several layers. the materials used are the glass. the liquid crystal. Metals and dielectrics. dielectrics are non-conductive materials electricity but lets the forces electrostatic. the glass used must not have any geometrical defect. its thickness is less than 1 mm. it must not contain ions for facilitate the passage of light. the glass used has a high content of silica. an lcd display contains two glass plates. liquid crystal is a state of the intermediate material between the crystal and the liquid. molecularly, in the crystal, the molecules are arranged in an orderly fashion. in the liquid state, the molecules are not arranged in an orderly fashion molecules have a random orientation. they are in constant motion. in a liquid crystal the molecules are in a intemediate state, between the solid state and the state liquid. the molecules not of a positional order but preserves an orientation order. chemically the liquid crystal consists of organic molecules, i.e. a molecule that contains carbon and hydrogen. in this molecule one part is flexible. it is the one that is responsible for the fluidity of the crystal. there is a rigid part. it is called mesogen. Here a example of liquid crystal the MBBA. The liquid crystals are classified according to orientation and the arrangement of the molecules. there are three classes. smectics the molecules are arranged in layers parallel. cholesterics, molecules are arranged in the form of a helix. the nematics, the molecules are oriented in the same direction without forming  62 00:02:22,000 -- 00:02:25,360 of layers they have disordered positions but their orientations are ordered. in the lcd screens named under the abbreviation TN, a liquid crystal of helix-shaped nematic type which is used. TN is the English acronym for twisted nematic. the lcd TN screens are the simplest to manufacture and have a low manufacturing cost the liquid crystal is enclosed between the two sheets of glass.to maintain the spacing between the two plates holding balls are deposited for maintain uniform spacing of a few micrometers in between plates. so that the molecules of liquid crystal adopt the form in helix, an additional layer is created called anchor layer. it is made from a chemical substance belonging to the family of polyimides. It's about a insulating and transparent substance. grooves are created by friction. one of the glass plates the grooves are oriented vertically and on the other the orientation of the grooves and horizontal. crystal molecules liquid will orient itself horizontally in contact with the layer having the grooves in the same direction. on the other plates the molecules will be rotated by 90 degrees and will have a vertical direction between the two extreme molecules other liquid crystal molecules will take an intermediate orientation when submitting a liquid crystal nematic to a potential difference via two electrodes we observe a modification of the intensity of the light. thanks to that reversible property, we can control the liquid crystal outlet the intensity of the light. this variation allows passage of the beam fully, partially illuminated or not at all. it is this property that is used in panels liquid crystal display. this property is also used for control of the transparency of windows as in this demonstration. a LCD screen does not emit light. it is a passive device. it is necessary to send a light from back to front. hence the name of backlighting this lighting mode and said transmissive. it is different from so-called reflective lighting. the screen in this case works with the reflection of exterior light. we find this type of screen for example in watches or calculators. schematically, the light is an electromagnetic wave. it has two components: a field magnetic and an electric field. each field has a direction called vector. one is vertical and the other horizontal. the magnetic field is perpendicular to electric fields. when this light passes through a filter polarizing only one of the components will pass through. if the polarizing filter is vertical only the vertical component of the light will pass through it. if the filter polarizer is horizontal, only the horizontal component of the light will cross. if now, we put in series of filters rotated 90 degrees one vertical and the other horizontal, the light does not pass. it is blocked. historically, before the appearance of lcd technology, the display was produced by scanning the screen of vertical and horizontal way to using an electron beam. the point of intersection between the two beams was called pixel. of our days, this technology is no longer used. it is replaced by the liquid crystal display that one commonly referred to as lcd display. the lcd screen is subdivided into a multitude of small squares. each square constitutes a pixel. the pixels are ordered in matrix and formed the intersection of row and column. each pixel displays a color at the time. the number of pixels depends on the screen resolution the more there are, the sharper the image the screen can be made up of millions of pixels in height and width all the pixels will form the image of the screen. as we just said on pixel is the smallest element of a screen or device to display or detect an image. actually a pixel of a digital image consists of three sub pixels with the three following colors: red green and blue to individually control each pixel must be integrated into the crystal display liquids in electronic circuits. thus an LCD screen according to its resolution can contain millions of special transistors known as the abbreviation for TFT. this is the acronym for thin film transistor translated into French by Transistor en Couche Mince abbreviated under the acronym of TCM. their schematic representation and as for a mosfet. we find a Gate,a source and a drain. besides the transistors there are several conductive tracks and capacitors. the term TFT lcd therefore refers to the type of technology used in manufacturing of the screen in front of the liquid crystal is a conductive plate with all tracks are linked together. tracks are connected to the drain of the transistors TFT. we consider this plate conductor as the equivalent of a single continuous electrode or electrode common. on this electrode we find the VCOM also known as reference voltage. here is represented the equivalent circuit for one sub pixel. in a TFT lcd screen are noted on the electrical diagram: the TFT transistor, the storage capacity of the sub pixel and liquid crystal. the crystal liquid is noted as a capacitor. indeed, the cell containing the liquid crystal has the same architecture than a capacitor. there is a double conductive armature separated by an insulator. Layer internal, it is the insulating material made by polyimide and the outer layer is made of a conductive material transparent ITO-based. the cell enclosing the liquid crystal is considered as a parasitic capacitance mounted in parallel with the capacity of storage of the sub pixel. the material used in manufacturing electric tracks has a particularity of being a driver electric and it is transparent. It is colorless in a thin layer. if this condition was not met, a non-transparent material would obstruct to the passage of light. the metal used consists of a mixture of 90% indium oxide and 10% tin oxide. this material is better known under the name of ITO which is the abbreviation of indium Tin oxide it is doped indium oxide tin. to transform the light white emitted by the backlight in colors, we put on the external face of the anterior glass a colored filter. this filter is made from a resin in which is included pigments in suspension colored red green and blue. in order to improve the contrast, are added between each of the colors a black stripe the black network put between the colors can be obtained with oxidized chromium. with the three primary colors or base that are red, green and blue we can get white or any other color. the absence of colors give black. the operation which consists of combining several colors in order to obtain a new color is called additive synthesis. yellow, magenta and cyan are called the secondary colors. we name a complementary color that must be added to a scondory color to get white. example for yellow the complementary color is blue because the red mixed with green plus blue gives white. for the magenta is green and for cyan it's red here is a summary of the various layers composing an lcd screen. for reminder the backlight is not a lcd screen component. starting from the back of the screen to the front on find a first polarizer of light vertical. then is deposited on a first thin glass plate a conductive layer containing the TFT transistors and capacitors. then comes the liquid crystal layer which is imprisoned between two glass plates, each of which crystal contact surface liquid has been covered with a layer of insulating material made of polyimide further forward on the second plate of glass and deposit a conductive material made of ITO. this layer corresponds to the common electrode. then is placed the color filter and to finish the second light polarizer horizontal 