 Hello, everyone. Today we are going to talk about the final section of the course which is on electricity and magmatism; and in order to do this, we are going to start with electrostatics, chapter 22. So you should begin reading this as soon as you get a chance and, of course, you can work the problems on the mastering physics as you get time as well. So in this chapter, we are going to talk about electrical forces. Electrical forces and charges. Something in Couloumb's law of attraction between, between charges and we'll talk about different types of electrical materials known as conductors, insulators, etc. We will end on talking about electric field and what is called electric potential or electric potential energy and then we'll move on to the next chapter. Electricity is a name given to a wide range of electrical phenomena. You all said you were already familiar with lightning or a spark lit when we strike a match. It is also what holds atoms together, and within atoms, it is what holds the negative charges of the electrons to the nucleus as well and we'll talk about that as we go through. Electrostatic involves electric charges and the forces between them. The reason it is called electrostatic is because we are not talking so much about the movement or prediction of the movement, but rather how we create static charges. One of the simplest experiments ever done was with what is called pith balls that are very small, lightweight, almost like Styrofoam, but similar in density. Very, very low in weight; and the idea of them is we have found ways to separate charges into positive and negative. All atoms are electrically neutral. So we are going to talk about how we separate the positive charges within an atom from its negative charges. But this has been done in the past, and we will discuss how in a minute, but the important feature here is that there are 2 kinds of charges. There is positive charge and negative charge, just as you find a positive and negative terminal on a battery, it refers to, um, the charges that accumulate on those batteries that we will describe later; but suppose that we have been able to induce or create the positive charge on a ball, set of balls and we have another set of balls we have induced the opposite charge. And, if we do this and we put these charges on very small balls hanging from the ceiling, what one finds is that if the 2 charges of the 2 different balls have the same sign, then they repel each other. So a positive and a positive will push away from each other. Normally there is no force at all. The always will hang straight down under the force of gravity, but because of the fact that is repulsion between them, they separate and the distance between them increases until they reach equilibrium where the gravitational force pulling them back in is balanced by the repulsion forces. So whether there is 2 positives in 2 different balls or 2 negatives, they will both experience a repulsion between them. But on the other hand, if we bring a positive charge ball in contact with a negative charged ball, then they will be attracted to each other and if they are attracted enough and they end up touching, they will, they can, they neutralize each other; but as long as they are not touching, the charges will not cross over and they experience an attractive force between them. Now, the origin of all charges has to do with how the atomic nucleus or atomic matter is made up of. Generally for all the elements in nature we can describe them in terms of atoms, which have a core center of particles, of protons and neutrons and this forms a very dense, but very small core, and also very heavy core of matter which contains 2 types of particles. One is called protons, which have a positive charge on them shown here with the 2 of them and the other, in this case, the other 2 add no charge and those are the neutrons inside the atom. Circling around the atom or the nucleus are electrons and they occur at various distances from the center and they are oppositely charged which are the electrons. So the electrons are what we call the negative charged particles and the protons are what we call the positives. Again, electrons are held in their orbit about the nucleus because they are attracted to the core nucleus by means of the attractive force that occurs between them and this hold them in their orbit in much the same way as planets are held in the orbits going around the sun, which is a gravitational force that creates that phenomena as well. Important facts about atoms. Every atom is compose the with a positively charged nucleus surrounded by this negative charge of electrons that's circulating and each of the electrons in any atom has the same quantity of negative charge and the same mass. Generally speaking, every atom, number 1 again, we can think of every atom as being composed of a certain number of protons, neutrons and electrons. In the lighter elements, they are all pretty much equal in quantity. So, for example, if we have carbon, it will have 6 protons, 6 neutrons and 6 electrons. Since the proton charge is positive and the electron is negative, but the magnitude of the charge is the same, that's to say the quantity of charge on them is the same, then atoms as a whole are neutral and they have 0 net charge. So if they are equal number of protons, typically there are, case of carbon, for example, 6 protons, there will be 6 electrons; and since protons have the opposite charge of electrons, the sum of all the charges adds up to 0 and that is what most of the matter looks like in the nature we typically yield and work with uncharged objects like the chair or the table, or in most cases, our body. So that is the general idea and that is consistent with what we were just talking about. Some other facts are that not only compose the nucleus, but they are about 2,000 -- 1800 times more massive than electrons, each of the protons carries a positive charge which is equal to the magnitude of the charge of electrons; and neutrons have slightly more mass, but otherwise they don't really contribute to our studying of electrostatics. That is the general scheme and this explains why most of the matter that we deal with has no net, no net charges on them. When, in fact, we are able to dislodge an electron from an atom, then the atom itself becomes positively charged. It has lost an electron. So, for example, with 6 protons in carbon, then taking one electron off of the carbon atom, that would leave 5, so the net charge would be plus 1. 6 positive charges of the protons minus 5 charges of the, 5 equal but opposite charges of the electron. If, on the other hand, an atom is able to gain one more electron in its orbit around the nucleus, then it becomes a negative ion; and those are the 2 types that we have. So an atom which has lost an electron becomes a positive ion and one that has gained an extra electron or more becomes a negative ion. Now, electrons in the atom have, they are structured so that if there are say 20 electrons in an atom, such as we find, for example, in calcium, then the inner electrons are tightly bound in inner orbit. Like, for example, Mercury is very close into the sun, but the orbit of Uranus and Neptune are quite far away and they are not as tightly bound in their orbit as the inner planets like Mercury, Venus and the other. And so similarly with electrons, the ones that are closest to the nucleus, or the positive charge, are more tightly bound and those are called the innermost electron. The outermost ones would be like the ones, the planetary system like Neptune and Uranus, which are farther out; and they are typically, those electrons that are further away are more loosely bound and can be easily dislodged or removed from their atoms. How do we create charges? Well, the simplest way to create charge is to rub 2 objects together. It works better if you choose your objects carefully to create the most charge that it can. A couple of common examples that one can do with ordinary materials is running your comb through your hair and many of you have already experienced when you do that, you can create an electric shock or static, we call static electricity, between the comb and your hair. So what's really happening here is that as you pull the comb through your hair, you are rubbing electrons from your hair to the comb. So your hair has lost some of its electrons, the atoms in your hair, and they benchmark positively charged; and meanwhile, the electrons have been rubbed off on to the comb. The comb now has an excess of electrons and it has become negative charged. So the easiest way to create this charge separation is by rubbing 2 objects together. Another example of that is by rubbing a glass rod with silk. When you do this electrons transfer from the rod on to the silk, the rod becomes positive charge and, therefore, the silk accumulates the charges that the electrons has been removed from the glass rod and it becomes negatively charged and the rod becomes, of course, positively charged. There is another important principle that is called the conservation charge. That is to say that when you do this rubbing process of rubbing either fur or silk against a glass rod, you have removed electrons from one object to another, but the total number of electrons has remained the same. So the total charge of the system is, is still going to add up to 0 in this case; but before we rub them together, the animal fur on the cloth is neutral, the rod is neutral, but when we rub it together we separate the charges and that means that some of the electrons, in this case, from the fur have been transferred to a, the rod making this rod more, more negative. In any process, no electrons are created or destroyed. Electrons are simply transferred from one material to the other. Now, an important relationship getting back to that simple case we had with the 2 balls being attracted to each other was an experiment first performed by Mr. Coulomb back in the 18th century and basically what he found was that not only is there force between these charges, but it depends on the separation distance between the 2. So, what he found was that if you double the distance between the charge of the objects, the force between them went down by a factor of 4; and if you triple the distance, let's say you just summate the separation and go from 5 centimeters to 15 centimeters, then the force between the charges would go down by a factor of 3 squared which would be 9. So we call this an inverse square law, the distance between the force between them varies depends of course on how much charge is on each object, but it varies inversely as the square of the separation distance, which is what I was just saying. We also, of course, what this is saying in the first part is that the more charge I put on the rod or the balls, the stronger will be their attraction. So that is a fact that has been quantified by Mr. Coulomb in his famous equation that says the force between static charges can be written as the charge on the first object times the charge on the second object divided by the distance between them squared times a constant k. In this case, it turned out that k is a value that is given in these units which is 9 billion Newton meters squared per Coulomb squared. So if we were able to, and we often do, measure the charge of an object in the unit of charge of Coulombs, then we can correlate that with a force between 2 charges knowing the charge on each one; and similar to, looks very similar to Newtons law of gravitation, this law also explains the bonding of forces between atoms in a molecule, like for example, sodium chloride are often more commonly known as table salt. So it has a wide variety of application, but the basic definition is given and that's in the [inaudible]. So, according to Coulomb's law, a pair of particles that are placed twice as far apart, and by particles, we mean charged particles. So we mean, for example, one of them has a charge Q1 and the other one has another charge we call Q2, that will be a certain amount of Coulombs, we'll experience a force between them. If we double the distance, if they were placed twice as far apart, then one of these 4 options will occur, the force between them will be half as strong. It will be one-quarter as strong, it will be twice as strong or 4 times as strong. So based on what we said, which is called the inverse square, if we double the distance, then the force between them is 1 over 2 squared, which becomes one-quarter. So the inverse law says that the force between the 2 charged particles will be one-fourth, and that is what we end up with. Now, there is one important difference between gravitational forces and electrical forces. Electrical forces can be either positive or negative. The source of the force between them is what we call the charge, and the charges, electrical charges can be either positive or negative; and as a result, whether we are dealing with like charges, the forces will be repulsive. If we are dealing with opposite charges, then they will be attractive. Whereas with gravitational forces, there is only one type of source, which is mass. Mass can only be positive. So there is only an attractive force and it does not have what we, a repulsive force because we only have one type of mass, which is positive, whereas with charges, we have 2 kinds of charges, positive and negative. So another way of creating static forces or electrical forces, suppose that we rub an inflated balloon on your hair, which you may have done in the past, you can place this balloon on a wall and notice that you can make the balloon stick to the wall. The balloon sticks to the wall because the charges, the excess electrons on the balloon will migrate towards a wall which has positive and negative charges built into it from its atomic structure; and the positive ions, or I should say the electrons, are repulsed away from the electrons on the balloon leaving behind positively charged ions on the wall and that attraction holds the balloon to the wall because they are, they are attracted. And again, we do this simply by rubbing 2 objects together, in this case the balloon against your hair. That's the one scenario which we actually are able to create what we call charge polarization. The charges of the wall have been polarized. Also the charges in the balloon. The negative charges are attracted to the wall and the positive ions that are left because of the repulsion of the balloon electrons leads to that static attraction. So among the different materials that can accumulate charge, we distinguish them into 2 different classes or categories; one which is called conductors and the other which is called insulators. So conductor is a material which one or more of the electrons in the outer shell are not well anchored to the nuclei and they are basically free to wander in the material. This is typically true of materials of common conductors such as copper, used in copper wire, aluminum, gold, silver, iron, all have loose outer electrons which are able to migrate through the material fairly freely, and therefore these are called conductors. On the other hand we have materials in which the electrons are bound tightly to their nuclei. They are not free to move. They are not free to be dislocated from the central nucleus of the positive charge, and because of the fact that they are strongly bound onto their atoms, they are not able to move and therefore they do not conduct electricity. And so conducting electricity basically means that if we connect the battery to 2 ends of the rod, the positive terminal of one battery to one end and the negative terminal to the other, with a conductor we would get a flow of current of electrons going through that material. Whereas with insulators, we would not be able to get that flow, and therefore, they do not conduct electricity, and we call them -- or by electricity we mean a flow of electrons and it would be called insulators. There is another class of materials called semiconductors that, it is a material that can be made to behave either as an insulator or sometimes it can be slightly conductive. It is never as conductive as a copper or aluminum bar, but it can have some conductivity and it falls in the middle range of electrical conductivity, or resistance, if you want to look at the opposite of conduction, we call that resistance if it is in the middle range between a true insulator and a true conductor. Semiconductors are used quite frequently in electronics. We use, semiconductors are fabricated, well, they also exist in nature by themselves such as silk and in germanium, but they are more useful when we modify them by putting additives in and make devices called transistors which are used in radios and in amplifiers. So the semiconductor industry is huge. It accounts for a very large fraction of the gross national product in our country and they play a dominant role in commercial enterprises. All of our electronics equipment, including the camera that is being used to film this lecture, have enormous numbers of semiconductor materials in them in order to function. Then there is another class which are called superconductors. These are materials that contralateral acquire 0 resistance when we lower their temperature to a very, very cold environment; and by cold, we mean temperatures very close to absolute 0 or of the order of minus 460 degrees Fahrenheit. Something that we can only do, create in the lab. They are used in cases where we need to have extremely high current flow, but we don't want to heat up the wires that carry the current because that would cause them to melt and get destroyed. So the superconductors can handle, because they have 0 resistance, they do not heat up and they have enormous current capabilities; and the most common example of this is superconductors in the use of MRI magnets. So if you ever go to the clinic and have to get an MRI scan, chances are they have, that for sure they will have a magnet that is made up of superconducting wires to create a very, very strong magnetic field; and there is no heat loss so they don't heat up, and they don't require significant, any significant amount of electrical power in order for them to operate. So these are useful devices as well and they are materials that are used when you need very high current and 0 resistance. So the couple ways in which we have charged an object, which we have already discussed, we can rub 2 objects together by silk rod -- silk cloth on a glass rod. We could also take animal fur, hair, and rub it on a, against a rubber rod and that would also create charges, separation of charges, and we could charge up one object to the other. Of course, the other thing you may be familiar with on very dry days in the wintertime is when you rub your feet in the carpet at home, you can build charges up from the carpet onto your body and you go over and touch a metal object and you get a spark; and that is the case of electrons leaving your body and going to a metal surface. So that gives us what we call discharge. The other way which we could do this, electrons can be transferred from one material to another simply by touching. So if I have, for example, a negative charged rod and place it in contact with a neutral rod, then some electrons will move to the neutral object and, therefore, become charged. The original object will become less charged. The uncharged object, the neutral will get, acquire some of those electrons. So each rod might get half the amount of the charge that the other one started with, but the contact with allow the electrons to move from one to the other. The other way in which we can create charges is what's known as induction, charge induction. And in this case we consider 2 insulated metal spheres, insulated metal spheres, so that means that the bases are made up of insulators so no electrons can move into or leave the spheres. Then you see the pictures here. They can, they, the, when they touch, they can touch each other, so in effect they form a single uncharged conductor. So when we start off in case A at lower left, the 2 uncharged spheres are in contact with each other. They are, have no electrical charge on them at all. They were neutral to start with. They are neutral when they really touching, but now what happens is we bring one of our rods over with negative charges on it that we either got from rubbing one of our rods to acquire that charge; and when it is brought near the sphere on the left in figure B here below, that was sphere called A, then what happens is that the electrons from the, from both spheres are repelled from the electrons on the rod and they move to the furthest distance they can away from the rod and move completely over to the right of object B. That leaves object A with the deficiency of electrons and object B is a net positive charge on it. At that point, we separate the 2. They are no longer in contact with each other. The negative charges on B stay on object B. The lack of electrons, or the positive, therefore the positive charge resulting in object A, sphere A is positively charged, and now I just remove the object that created the induced charge all together and I have 2 separate spheres, one which is positively charged and the other is negatively charged. So this is another way in which we can create charge separation and it works very effectively. 