 In may of 2002 Bell labs formally created an  investigative committee. Prior to this however   Hendrik's managers: Rogers and Capasso reached out  to Battlog. They asked him to speak with Hendrik   directly and ask the question nobody had thought  to ask: Did you fake the data? Hendrik's answer: No. The committee was made up of five members and  included a mix of experts on the relevant topics   of Hendrik's publications. The chairman Malcolm  Beasley of Stanford has an extensive history with   superconductivity. Purdue university's Supriyo  Datta focused on nano electronics and had been   following Hendrik's molecular transistor for  a while now. Next you had Herbert Kroemer,   co-winner of the Nobel prize in physics in 2000  for his work with high speed semiconductors.   Then there was Bell lab's own Herwig  Kogelnik, the go-to for all things lasers.   The most interesting inclusion in my eyes: Don  Monroe - the man who first raised the idea of   an investigation over the overly symmetric  histogram, and the closest anyone had come   to outright accusing Hendrik of fraud. It was hard  to argue that Bell labs was planning a cover-up.   In short that meant that three out of five members  were external leaders in their respective fields   and one internal one was certainly not  afraid of getting to the bottom of things.   There were a bunch of people who saw the  copied data and they said "this is done,   you know the guy's cooked, it's over". But there  were also a bunch of people that thought well geez   you know there's so much interesting stuff maybe  something's still there. And they were waiting for   the results so there were sort of two different  types of reaction. The new york times had gone   public with the story on may 23rd. Bell lab's  reputation was in question at one of the worst   financial periods in its history. Transparency  wasn't a suggestion, it was mandatory.   After a five-month investigation the committee's  findings were compiled in a 127-page report:   Property of Lucent technologies. The management  needed - had several audiences for the report.   One was you know their own - the company  - the Lucent management. The big company.   The other was the outside community and another  was the members of their own scientific staff.   Some of the internal critics they were painted  with the idea that somehow this was sour grapes,   that they were just jealous. But it's hard to know  what you know what was going on behind the scenes.   There were some things going on, you know  my discussion of the statistics was not   in any way public, and they took that very  seriously. The committee first sent out a   questionnaire to Hendrik which included asking  him for all of the relevant original data   files. In some cases they managed to find the  original data embedded in journal submissions,   rough drafts and even powerpoint slides. They  also sent out questionnaires to all 20 of   Hendrik's co-authors who were involved in the  papers being investigated. Of these co-authors   three were considered primary due to the  frequency that they appeared on Hendrik's work.   These three were Bertram Batlogg, Christian  Kloc, and Zhenan Bao. Batlogg and Kloc made   sense to single out, they were co-authors  on over 70 papers together. Boa was less   obvious since they only shared 14 papers. However  those 14 included Hendrik's molecular transistor   which was the target of multiple accusations. It  became clear from their questionnaire answers that   none of the three of them had ever seen Hendrik  measure even a single one of his devices. Batlogg   was just Hendrik's supervisor, guiding and  discussing but never personally seeing the   experiments himself. Christian Kloc's involvement  was limited to growing the large organic crystals   which he then handed over to Hendrik and  never saw again. Zhenan Bao had a similar   situation. She provided Hendrik with the organic  molecules he used in his molecular transistor   and although she produced a single graph in one  of the suspicious papers it was clear that there   was nothing unexpected about her data, and that  Hendrik had acted alone. I prefer when journals   have a list of specific author contributions to a  paper. Yeah we didn't know but yeah we certainly   suspected that Hendrik was acting on his own but  you have to ask. Actually what was shocking to   all of us I think was how little other people had  seen of the data being collected in real time. The   laser for example um we all felt like if you saw  a laser in your lab you would you know even if it   was 10 o'clock at night you'd be running down the  halls grabbing you know the janitor to show them   this light! For over a month the committee was  inundated with accusations and at one point had   to declare that their report would only consider  accusations brought forward before June 2nd   otherwise the process would just go on for months.  After considering them all they dismissed certain   accusations as insubstantial and categorized  all the remaining ones into three groups: Data   substitution - nine counts. Unrealistic precision  - nine counts. Contradictory physics - six counts.   There are far too many to cover in this video.  The full report dives deep into each accusation   and if you're interested I have linked it in the  description. But for the sake of time I'm only   gonna be highlighting the most unique accusations  and in my opinion funniest. For nearly three years   Hendrik's data was conjured from a black box. The  committee's job was to uncover what was inside. Of the three types of accusations data  substitution or duplication was the most   blatant and easiest to prove. Some of these  you could find via visual inspection just as   Lynn Loo and Julia Hsu had stumbled upon  during a late night in the patent office.   you've all seen accusation three by now. This is  what kicked off the whole ordeal: Three identical   curves including noise, in three different papers  for three different materials across a span   of two years. You'll notice the third one has  a different numerical scale than the other two   but the exact same shape, almost as if he was  drawing it with a pencil. Cut and dry case clearly   misconduct on Hendrik's part. Data substitution  isn't always about one-to-one duplicates though,   some cases were a bit more subtle. Take accusation  five: these two curves look unrelated...right?   Turns out if you look at the raw data they're  exactly off by a constant factor of 3.96.   Hendrik made one curve and multiplied that by  what the theory suggested would be an appropriate   factor. He clearly realized that multiplying by  exactly four would be suspicious so he, you know,   adjusted it to look a bit more plausible.  That's not even the worst one though, accusation   one highlights two different figures from the  same paper of what is apparently two different   molecules. The curves differ exactly by a factor  of two. Not 2.01. Not 2.001. I'm talking 2.0000.   Contradictory physics I'd argue are the most  fascinating accusations. That's because they're   by far the most difficult to prove the idea  is that Hendrik's results contradict some   generally well accepted piece of theory and no  plausible alternative explanation can be found.   The trouble is Hendrik's most famous publications  covered exotic materials no one had really worked   with before, making lasers and superconductors  with materials no one else had. There was a tiny,   but you know, still real chance that some of  the contradictory physics were a legitimate   discovery on Hendrik's part. After all many  key pillars of physics like relativity,   quantum mechanics got their start  as contradictory physics. These   accusations are partly why such high profile  researchers were chosen for the committee,   if anyone could figure out what was real and  what was fake, these five had a good shot.   Accusation 19: One of the most basic  building blocks of circuits is the inverter.   If it takes an input of one it outputs a zero,  if it takes an input of a zero it outputs a one,   simple! Hendrik's voltage curve looked like this:  With a nice distinct separation between the high   and low regions. This is the iconic inverter  curve associated with two transistors hooked up   like this. The issue here is that the inverter  circuit that Hendrik describes in his paper   actually looks like this, with one transistor and  a resistor, and that type of inverter produces a   very different curve like you see here. It  has a very sharp flat plateau and a much   more gradual descent. This contradicted common  knowledge for one of the most important circuits   ever invented. Similarly for accusation 20.  Hendrik's molecular transistor design - the first   of its kind - had a pretty unoptimized geometry  performing far better than even the cutting edge   transistors that had decades of research behind  them. So you know not really believable. Compared   to data substitution, accusations of unrealistic  precision are much less visually obvious,   but because the committee eventually got access  to the raw data files it gave them the chance   to run some rigorous analysis on his numbers. In  several instances Hendrik would have graphs where   the scales just seemed too large to be measurable,  or the curves just looked way too good to be true. Here you have a pretty standard curve for a  superconductor: as the temperature approaches   absolute zero it abruptly drops off and then goes  to zero. Except the superconductor in question   shouldn't have such an abrupt transition. It's  generally expected that the transition point has   a lot more fluctuations. So that alone was already  suspicious but looking at the raw data: all of   these points fit a mathematical expression and all  of these points are exactly zero. That leaves only   four points out of a total 117 that might...just  might...be genuine data. Now you might be curious,   how can you tell if data is generated from an  equation, or whether it's a genuine measurement?   Take accusation 10, where he's again measuring the  resistivity of several superconducting samples.   If you have a set of points and you want to see  whether the points were generated from actual   measurements or from an equation, here's what  you do: This is a graph of a simple parabola,   x squared. If you want to know the slope  at a given point you take its derivative.   That derivative works out to 2x and it's a  perfectly straight line as you'd expect! The   second derivative is the slope of the slope um  you can kind of think of it as a single number   that represents the smoothness of a curve. In this  case the second derivative is a constant value:   two. Now what I've done here is  take the original x squared equation   and I've plotted a bunch of points using it but  I've also injected a little bit of random noise.   Now what do you think its derivatives will  look like? It's a mess. This is what real data   should look like. If your first and second  derivatives look like nice smooth curves,   something is fishy. Any time the committee was  able to get their hands on data that Hendrik used   they did the second derivative test. Now let's  take a step back to these curves. Here is the   first derivative test: They're all perfectly  straight lines but multiplied by a different   factor. You can even see the same ripples around  55 kelvin so you know they're based on the same   equation. What about the second derivative holy [  __ ] he didn't even he didn't even try to hide it.   You can actually tell where he added points  manually where it spikes up like this.   Finally accusation 18. This one is a big one  Hendrik's unpublished paper on his aluminum   oxide sputtering. This was supposed to answer all  the questions of researchers who couldn't recreate   his results. Let's see how it holds up. Hendrik  claimed in multiple papers that his aluminum oxide   could support up to 70 to 80 million volts per  centimeter. The most any other group could achieve   was 12 to 15 million. A factor five times lower.  Hendrik sampled 600 devices and measured their   breakdown field, which is the field where the  devices fail and get torn apart. It resulted in   a gaussian distribution like you see, here except  600 points is far too low a sample size for such a   good agreement and the chance of that occurring is  uh okay uh 0.02 percent...so not super plausible.   And as it turns out a gaussian isn't even  the expected distribution you'd see here   you'd anticipate seeing a Weibull distribution  which for someone doing a half-assed fake, might   confuse with a gaussian at a glance. The next  figure in question is a contour map of pressure   versus deposition rate with red spots indicating  the best results Hendrik claimed he recorded 144   different deposition rates and he reported his  breakdown field with enough decimal places that   it would have required at least 36 measurements to  be accurate what that means is he would have had   to take a total of 36 times 144 total data points  which works out to the fabrication and testing   of 5184 separate devices! And you thought  1300 was bad. If we assume again quite   quite generously that it takes him five minutes to  both make and test each device it would have taken   Hendrik 18 straight days of non-stop work. Hendrik  didn't actually measure 5000 data points. When   asked he claimed he expanded his 36 data point  set to over 5000 by interpolating between points   which is a completely meaningless and information  destroying procedure for an experiment explicitly   meant to show process variations, I like I don't  understand WHAT. Finally it was discovered through   an email conversation with Batlogg that he  initially claimed he was going to sweep his   voltage at a rate of 0.001 volts per second.  Batlogg pointed out that it would take 2.4   years for that to finish and he promptly changed  the voltage sweep from a value of 0.001 to 1   volt per second...a factor of 1000 difference.  The resulting plot from this voltage sweep was   the following. Note how the data is perfectly  mirrored at the point where he starts to sweep   in the other direction. And here we are, at the  end of the day the most blatant and error-filled   paper of Hendrik's was the one he never wanted  to publish in the first place. It wouldn't be   appropriate to hold you responsible for  every plot that you made at each point   during the course of research so it seemed like  a clean line to say if it's a publication that's   sort of equivalent to you know sort of testifying  under oath. It was never published but it was very   widely circulated in the community as sort of  a defense of his his uh aluminum dioxide and   so we decided to include that one as actual um  because of its wide distribution. His secret   ingredient had always been his aluminum oxide  and when put under a microscope his excuses and   explanations fell apart. And if he was lying about  this every paper he had ever touched was in doubt. Oh you hear that. That's all the time we have  folks, thank-you have been a great audience,   give yourself a big hand. Time to  tell Hendrik here what he's won. Hendrik was found to have committed 16 out of the  24 formal allegations of scientific misconduct.   6 out of 9 for data substitution, 7 out of 9  for unrealistic precision, and 3 out of 6 for   contradictory physics. Note the carefully chosen  language on the ones he wasn't found guilty of:   "while troubling this instance on its own does  not provide compelling evidence of scientific   misconduct" or "the preponderance of evidence  indicates that Hendrik Schon fabricated data in   this case, however since no relationship between  the fabricated data and any published data has   been established no finding of scientific  misconduct is warranted" why was that   do you think? The data they were able to gather  came from submissions Hendrik made to journals   where the data points were still embedded in word  documents, or graphs copy pasted into powerpoint   slides. He claimed it was standard practice not  to keep written logs which is not true, first of   all who the [ __ ] is this man not keeping written  logs of his once in a generation breakthroughs??   What about digital copies? Still none. What do you  think the official reason he gave for that was?   Like I genuinely want you to guess. I want you to  make up an excuse so bad you'd never even dream   of using it because you'd be too embarrassed to  pretend it was even real. He deleted them because   he ran out of hard drive space. So you're telling  me that a man famous for breakthroughs in several   disciplines who was known for doing some of the  cheapest research at the company didn't think he   could ask for an extra hard drive? It shouldn't  come as a shock that during the investigation   they found that Hendrik had not a single working  or even non-working device for them to analyze.   He claimed that all of them were A. Damaged  during measurement, which sure let's assume   high voltage breakdown led to some occasional  broken devices, that's that's plausible. B. Were   damaged during transit from Konstanz, uh all  right sure I'm playing along I'll humor you.   C. He threw them in the garbage. Hendrik was  fired the same day the report was published.   Hendrik maintains that even though he falsified  the data in his publications he was observing a   genuine physical effect and that further research  will validate his findings. Whether that happens   or not it sounds like he fundamentally  doesn't understand what he did wrong.   All those awards he won? After weeks of negative  headlines he returned the prize money alongside   his co-winners. The Schon scandal remains one  of the most prolific and highly publicized cases   of academic fraud in living memory. In 2007  nature even published a misconduct special   with Hendrik front and center. Among all these  cases the Schon scandal is unique in that it's one   of the few fraud scandals where the central figure  was unequivocally found to be guilty and the law   allowed for them to be stripped of their academic  standing. After a lengthy investigation of their   own the university of Konstanz revoked his Ph.D  in 2004. This fact is a lot more significant than   you might initially think as revoking a degree  is extremely rare as well as a legally complex   process, and it often comes down to the provincial  or state laws where the university is located.   Even then the authority to do so is usually  reserved for cases where there is clear misconduct   associated with the Ph.D thesis itself, most  often plagiarism. The university conducted an   investigation of Hendrik's thesis and noted that  although they found mistakes they never actually   found any clear evidence of fraud but still  deemed Hendrik unworthy of his doctorate. Yeah   I mean they said it was a reputational thing  and I'm still a little bit uncomfortable with   taking away a degree retroactively based  on things that were done later. It seems   like if you got a degree legitimately  unless it was shown later that you had   obtained the degree fraudulently which I didn't  think it worked very hard on showing that. So   for this reason Hendrik sued on the grounds that  Konstanz didn't actually have the authority to   revoke his degree and in 2009 the administrative  court of Freiburg agreed with him. However in 2011   the administrative court of Manheim argued that  under the state higher education act unworthiness   can relate to scientific conduct.  And to paraphrase the legal decision:   A PhD is an endorsement of an individual's  research abilities and the title holder   enjoys an increased level of trust in the eyes  of both the scientific community and the public.   Therefore a serious violation of scientific ethics  warrants the removal of the degree. This decision   was upheld by the federal administrative court and  the federal constitutional court actually declined   to even view Hendrik's additional complaint. As of  2011 Hendrik is no longer a doctor. On top of that   the German research council banned Hendrik from  receiving research funding for eight years as well   as barring him from acting as a peer reviewer for  journals. He's still allowed to work in physics   mind you, just not as a doctor. He now works as  a process engineer at a firm in Germany. So why   was Hendrik never criminally charged? Well the US  federal policy on research conduct only applies   to research that is government funded. Because  all research was internally funded by Lucent, a   private corporation, no criminal charges could be  applied. The most lasting consequence though was   on its publication record. The Bell labs report  led to 28 papers being retracted. On top of that   eight others were deemed highly questionable  which is a polite way to say we wouldn't trust   anything in this. This works out to almost a third  of Hendrik's entire career output being deemed   invalid. And despite all that Hendrik is still  only the 10th most retracted author of all time.   But I assume you don't have another 18 hours to  spare so unfortunately we'll have to move on. It's hard to argue that Hendrik  didn't get exactly what he deserved.   Far better people have lost their jobs for doing  far less than what Hendrik did. The much more   hotly debated question is whether his colleagues  shared proper responsibility. Although the   committee's report goes out of its way to state  that only Hendrik was guilty of misconduct there   is a separate question of whether his co-authors  met their professional responsibilities.   Co-authors by their very nature are implicitly  endorsing any piece of work their name appears on.   Collaborative scientific research requires a high  level of trust among the participants, however   such trust must be balanced with a responsibility  to ensure the veracity of all results. Shared   credit for the accomplishment must be matched with  shared responsibility. But we were also aware that   someone like say Christian Kloc, who was providing  samples would not have the expertise to evaluate   the electrical measurements for example, so  holding everybody responsible for the whole paper   doesn't seem like a constructive way to deal with  it. Operating under this standard the committee   determined that all of Hendrik's co-authors met  the minimum responsibilities but did not go as   far as to say they were entirely blameless. In  particular they questioned whether Batlogg as   the distinguished leader of the research took a  sufficiently critical stance. The argument being   that exceptional results demand exceptional  skepticism, and Hendrik's work certainly was   exceptional. Batlogg more than anyone was  in a position to cross that line of trust   and question the integrity of Hendrik's results.  Maybe you'd like to think that people judge   papers solely on the basis of their content, but  reputation is a very important part of science.   People work very hard to get a reputation  and when someone has a reputation they   get an automatic degree of credibility. If there  had been a Nobel prize it seems likely that   Bertram would be on the Nobel prize as well.  Despite their critiques the committee stopped   short of calling for further disciplinary  action for anyone other than Hendrik. These   are extraordinarily difficult questions which  go to the heart of what we as a community of   scientists expect of one another professionally.  The committee does not consider itself qualified   to make a specific judgment in this case in the  absence of a broader consensus on the nature of   the responsibilities of participants  in collaborative research endeavors. What about the journals? How accountable are  they? Speaking in general terms editors at both   Science and Nature emphasize that while they  try to run a thorough review process they do   not aim to guarantee that everything they publish  is right. Our goal is the advancement of science,   does it advance science? Even a paper  that's wrong can encourage new science.   Even if that is the case should there not be a  re-evaluation of the checks and balances in place,   make it so fraud can't slip by undetected? No,  answers Donald Levy. Referees need to assume that   the authors are operating in good faith. Once you  admit the possibility of fraud it becomes nearly   impossible to evaluate the paper. It would  be very damaging to the progress of science   that every paper had to be screened for fraud.  This sentiment is echoed by Hendrik's former   department head, Frederico Capasso. Scientists  are good at detecting genuine technical errors   but not at detecting fraud because  their system is based on trust. Yes,   we were all fooled. Most people in in research  don't think acceptance in a peer-reviewed journal   is a mark of truth, it's not that simple, and  there can be honest mistakes but there can also be   devious or intentional distortions. I don't know  I think it's kind of a - it's an easy excuse   for the journals to say well you know we can't  really find fraud. As of this video it's been over   20 years since the start of Hendrik's forgery.  Nearly two decades of scientific progress. Was   there any truth to Hendrik's work? Was he right,  that he would ultimately be validated with further   research? The first molecular transistor was  created for real this time in 2009 by a joint   team at Yale and the Gwangu institute in south  korea. He was only off by eight years. So how   about Moore's law? I don't mean to be a downer but  Moore's law has been dead for more than a decade   and molecular transistors were never going to save  it. Moore's law was never a physical law it was   an economic one. The top chip manufacturers have  been continually pushing back their smaller chip   releases or canceling them entirely. It's not too  difficult to lay down a single molecule connecting   two gold wires, the issue is connecting it to  electrical contacts large enough to be useful   without noise dominating the signal from your  electrode. Apply a slightly too large a voltage,   you might physically be tearing gold atoms  off the contacts. I think from uh from a   practical aspect it wasn't clear what um  you know what was going to come out of it   but you know it wasn't clear when bell labs  invented the transistor what was going to come   out of it. You know like the first transistor they  didn't actually think it was going to be computers   you know I think the story is they thought like  oh it might be good for for radios or something.   So is that it? The age of digital  progress has come to an end?   No. Computing power will keep growing, but the  solution isn't going to be in the form of fitting   more transistors onto a chip. The resurrection  of Moore's law if we even call it that, will come   in the form of running several chips in parallel,  will come from advances in solid-state drives, AI,   machine learning, and maybe, just maybe, quantum  computing. Let's give that last one 50 years   or so. Sadly the plastic revolution he  kicked off never really came to fruition.   And then some people like continued along that  line, there's people that kept working on this   organic electronics after Schon scandal but  then eventually I don't know that work sort of   hasn't continued. That's not to say organics is a  dead-end field though, they have their own little   niche. They're incredibly cheap to produce  for large surface areas, can be made at room   temperature and have applications in flexible  and biodegradable devices. Plus organic LEDs   have dominated high-def TV displays for the past  decade. Oh by the way if there's one carbon-based   molecule you should be looking out for: But what  ended up happening was I think a lot of people   that, and I was in that boat, started working on  on graphene. I had been reading I mean I had read   like you know all these papers right I spent like  a year reading all about solid-state physics with   organic electronics so I thought okay I'll just  work on graphen. I think me getting into graphene  was partly was the result of  dealing with the whole Schon thing.   First isolated in 2004 and winner of the 2010  Nobel in physics. On top of an absurd conductivity   and a high tolerance for temperature it's quite  literally the strongest material on earth,   harder than even diamond. Just gotta wait a few  decades to drive down that production cost. In   spite of everything the field of organics managed  to survive and arguably thrive without him. Of course it's easy to look at the field as a  whole and see little to no lasting damage but on   an individual level some were luckier than others.  Hendrik's paper kicked off a revolution. From the   perspective of the academic community organics  was the new hot field and hundreds of eager grad   students and postdocs bet everything on it. Many  of them wasted months or even years trying to   replicate results that weren't even real in the  first place. Funding applications scholarships   and PhD proposals were unknowingly based on a  foundation of lies. In total he had spent two   years trying to replicate the Bell lab's results,  but he hesitated to say that it was a complete   waste of time. He said he learned a lot about  transistors by failing to make one. Bhattacharya   surfaced to notice that his contemporaries were  getting papers published and were being offered   jobs as junior professors at good universities and  that he wasn't. His postdoc research, expected to   be a short career stage lasting two or three  years, went on the last five. At one advisory   meeting to assess the progress of Ruth DeBaur's  PhD he recalled the student practically in tears   as she presented her mobility measurements and  described Jan Hendrik's as better. DeBaur said   that in this period she was dejected and  thinking about giving up on her PhD topic   which would lose time. Goldhaber-Gordon's most  experienced postdoc and a graduate student worked   on organic crystals for nearly a year when the  fraud came to light his grad students still had   enough years left to switch to another project and  graduate with a good dissertation but his postdoc   Silvia Luscher ended up having spent a year in  her postdoc position without results and after   leaving the lab became less active in experimental  physics. Although she had other reasons for this   the year frustration had not helped. You can't  bring the time back. It was two years I could   not use for my CV. It was not a good story to  tell. It was my first real research experience.   Jochen Ulrich flew to the united states, visited  Bell labs, had an interview and got a job,   but to his disappointment he never got to explore  quantum effects and organic crystals and had to   spend months on the mundane task of trying  to remake Schon's field effect transistors.   Sick of the materials he switched to a new topic  but still left science at the end of his postdoc.   It was frustrating he said, I wouldn't go as far  as to say that I left science because of this   but it changed the way I thought about science.  This is not even mentioning co-workers at bell   labs who almost certainly lost their jobs  when it might otherwise have been Hendrik.   Some would argue that science is self-correcting.  If someone is committing fraud further research   will naturally uncover them to be liars. But as  we saw in this case Hendrik was not caught through   passive research, by letting things play out, but  rather through active skepticism and aggressive   investigation. The Schon scandal is not just an  embarrassing ordeal for a legendary institution,   it's a stain on the field that set off a ripple  effect of difficult personal and professional   decisions. Oddly enough it seems that those most  closely linked to the scandal went on to have   largely unaffected careers. Fredrico Capasso,  arguably the most famous scientist ever to work   with Hendrik took on a faculty position at Harvard  where he continued to rack up awards and honors   for his contributions to laser science. John  Rogers went to U Illinois and later Northwestern   working on flexible wearable electronics with 80  patents and rising. Christian Kloc went on to have   a productive if modest career as a professor in  Singapore. Zhenan bao took a clear productivity   hit for the first three years following the  scandal but afterwards she had an amazing   output as a professor at Stanford. If anything you  could argue her career just had a delayed start to   becoming one of the most productive chemists  active today. As you might have gathered none   of them remained at Bell labs...which begs  the question: What happened to Bell labs?   I wish there was a less depressing answer. Nothing  to do with the Schon scandal mind you. In the wake   of the scandal widespread policies were instituted  that required all changes to remain struck out as   part of the digital archive and all pre-print  manuscripts were to be hosted on an internal   server for technical comments. There's a debate  to be had over whether the leadership admitted   sufficient fault over the scandal but truth be  told the corporate end suffered very little from   the fallout. The changes the company was about  to undergo were part of a much larger inevitable   picture. As it's done several times throughout its  existence bell labs transferred ownership. Lucent,   an American company merged with Alcatel a French  company, and in 2006 they became Alcatel-Lucent.   This was the first period of growth in a long  time for Bell labs but it wasn't all good news.   By 2008 Alcatel-Lucent announced that it was  pulling out of what it called basic science and   material research which included the department  that Hendrik once belonged to. The company   was instead going to focus on more marketable  areas such as networking software and wireless   communications. By July 2008 there were only four  on-staff physicists left. The rest had jumped ship   for careers in physics departments throughout  the US's many distinguished universities.   Since then little has changed Nokia acquired  Alcatel Lucent in 2015 and they've continued   operations ever since. Believe it or not they  make a lot more than indestructible phones.   I don't want your takeaway from this to be that  economic interests inevitably lead to the death of   pure unfiltered science. I've worked for companies  like Lucent, like Nokia, and there are plenty of   teams left in the industry doing amazing research.  It's just a lot more hardware based than it is   material science. If anything it's remarkable  how long Bell labs managed to stick around as   one of the few commercial beacons  of science for science's sake.   Wait did I, did I forget someone earlier? Bertram  Batlogg left bell labs for Switzerland long   before suspicions are on Hendrik's work became  widespread. A quick glance at his publication   history tells a fascinating story. You can  see his early years toiling away and then the   massive surge due to the superconductor boom  of the 80s and 90s. This work would continue   to sustain a pretty healthy yearly citation rate  even to this day. but towering above all the rest   of his accomplishments is the three-year period  where he supervised Jan Hendrik Schon. Despite   the criticisms in the Bell labs report, he didn't  lose his job in Zurich. He had no titles revoked,   he almost certainly would have had a larger  research group if things had gone differently   but considering how central he was to the whole  ordeal he did pretty well for himself. If anything   the most visible impact the scandal had on him  was that it takes up half his wikipedia entry.   In the years since the scandal broke Batlogg  has adopted a reasonably humble attitude.   I think he's accepted his partial responsibility  for the scandal now that some time has passed,   and he even became involved in teaching a  course on scientific ethics at the Swiss   institute for technology. The month after  Hendrik was fired, in the heated aftermath   of the scandal Batlogg is quoted as saying the  following: "when I am a passenger in a car,   and the driver drives through a red light, then  I am not to blame". Today Batlogg would probably   disagree with that statement. To borrow from his  own analogy: If you're the passenger advising a   reckless and inexperienced driver, it's your  job to pull that car to the side of the road. I really hope that's the closure you  wanted...because that's all I have for you. 