 - So welcome to 3D Graphic Usability, Objects Designed for Users with Visual Impairments. I'm Elizabeth Pyatt, I'm an IT Accessibility Consultant with TLT and sometimes I'm an Instructor of Linguistics and Aaron? A: My name's Aaron Knochel, I'm an Assistant Professor of Art Education in the School of Visual Arts. I'm also an Embedded Researcher in the Art & Design Research Incubator in the College of Arts and Architecture. E: So I think we're gonna trade off and I'm up first. So today we're talking about tactile graphics, we're definitely talking about 3D printing but also we're comparing it to a 2D version. So here we have a map and it's created by a series of Braille dots to form lines and if you look down here, this is the Braille text and so, a lot of graphics we are actually putting on Braille text, which have some interesting consequences and this [graphic] is, some of you may have seen this, this is another 2D graphic form and you really can't see it but these black lines would actually all be raised on this special paper. So this is from a speech disorders class and it's a cross section of the top of your mouth and again, these are all Braille [labels] and one of the reasons this Braille is interesting is because we have found out that it pretty much has to be 24 point, whereas in other text we have options for shrinking it up and down as needed or changing color. Braille is always black and white. This is an example of using textures in it. So, some 3D printing may actually be something like this but with raised, set in plastic instead of paper but of course, there are other options which we'll talk about. For the 2D version, we already have some ideas of what kind of standards [work]. For example, the major outline has to be pretty thick, it can't be a one point line, it has to be actually three or larger. Straight may be better than curved, making sure there's enough padding so that your sense of touch doesn't run everything together. Putting the title on top, on the left as opposed to centering it. Making sure arrows connect properly and also, just a lot of simplification happens. So this map of Africa really can't happen on the 8.5 by 11 [size], we have to  break it up and lose a lot of detail. So we don't have longitude lines anymore. We have lots of abbreviations for country names and things like that and I'm gonna turn this over to Aaron. A: So one of the things that really brought Elizabeth and I together is a lot of initiatives on campus here at Penn State to talk about 3D printing. So many things in the College of Arts and Architecture, including our DigiFab Lab, the College of Engineering's Learning Factory, a research project I've been conducting looking at deployable Maker Spaces called the MAKE 3D Space and then also the Maker Commons at the library. All of these have kind of come together to involve many different entities, centers and also departments and units across the campus and thinking about how to use 3D printing. So Elizabeth, I think you advance the slides. E: Sure (chuckles). A: So, for me, my interest in 3D printing really have to do with, start from kind of an artistic point of view, so thinking about what opportunities my students by students may gain by thinking of sculptural or design objects but this also intersects with my interest in art education as a social practice, in other words, being interested in how the arts involve people in collaboration and also participatory kinds of work together. So I like to think of the art that we make in the classroom as having some sort of social impact. So I was really drawn to the idea of tactile graphics as being a creative kind of project but also maximizing my student's skills in spacial thinking and also sort of realizing form in three dimensions. And of course there's lots of different ways that different disciplines have taken up 3D modeling and 3D printing in particular. So when I say 3D modeling, I'm kind of referencing the stuff that stays on the screen in three dimensional form and then 3D printing is when those models are expressed as solid objects that are printed. Lots of different disciplines, here we have this primate skull which might be a good example of how anthropologists or certain types of social sciences might utilize 3D printing to actualize sort of a more robust understanding of the different types of curricular objects that are used in learning. So one of the things that, go back just one [slide], one of the things that I was really curious about was really, again, asking my students to consider how this idea of 3D printing and creating tactile learning would benefit them in the art education classroom. So here's a little kind of demonstration of the concept, this is our proof of concept. So as you scan the paragraph and take a look at the description, we're not gonna quiz anybody right now but for some of you who may be more involved or might remember in art history class from your prior education or are involved or interested in the arts, you might recognize what work this is, but I think we can all identify that the Edvard Munch painting, The Scream, is really a powerful visual image and that the passage that we read before gives us a very limited understanding of that image. In particular, the ways that composition works. So when I'm talking about composition, this is the idea of the arrangement of objects within the rectangular space. These are the kinds of visual experiences that we, in some ways, take for granted and so if we take a look at the left hand side we have this, the original painting. And on the right hand side we see, again, this kind of simplification that might bring an experience like vision to someone who maybe is blind or has low vision using a tactile. So one of the things that we're constantly exploring, Elizabeth and I, and also when I'm working with my students is how to make these translations to truly benefit those folks and also try and sort of understand our own inclinations as sighted users. So, the example here, if you look at these two pieces, you might see the object on the right and say to yourself, oh, that's such an interesting depiction, that 3D model of the painting, I can really see the kind of surfaces and textures but really, without vision, this model on the right hand side becomes totally incomprehensible. It really doesn't mean, would not mean very much to somebody who's interacting with it because in a lot of ways, we discern what it is via color and of course, color doesn't make any difference. So there's also more developed project, I shouldn't say developed, more elaborate projects that are involving 3D printing and 3D modeling. So this is a project that is in Finland by the name of Unseen Art and what they're doing, they're kind of model is to create really elaborate models that folks can interact with and these are beautiful. So this is a depiction of the Mona Lisa. It's a really, really professional quality 3D model. It's an expensive kind of printing technique. This object printed would probably be about 800 to a thousand dollars. So, there's other projects too, they're doing sort of interesting things. So this is a project called Shapereaders and it's really an artist and designer who is interested in sort of figuring out how do I create tactile representations of graphic novels? So again, a really kind of interesting and intriguing project but if you think about it, this requires a whole kind of other language to learn. It's kind of like learning another Braille, right? You have to understand what those textured surfaces are referencing, so there's a lot of load on the learner to kind of understand how this is working. So what I did with my students was A) I sort of relied on the fact that they know nothing about 3D printing, they know nothing about 3D modeling. That's my assumption, so I'm assuming that I'm working with novice users and B) I was really interested, can we pull this off, can we explore tactile graphics with readily available software and accessible 3D printers? Now, I want to acknowledge of course, not everybody has a 3D printer but really what I'm focusing on are the fuse deposition 3D printers, the kind of MakerBots and things that we see that are becoming much more common in hobbyists and novice environments. MakerBots are what they have at the library and so this is one of my students, Alyssa Pittenger and so she was interacting with an online class, a linguistics class that had this slide show and so I basically asked my students to evaluate what visuals were being given in the slideshow and could they use tactiles to supplement how the learner would interact with that slide, so there's this kind of interesting idea of if we have online learning through World Campus and our maker commons can ship prints to anywhere within our system via using inter-library loan or transmit these 3D models online via say, email, than that really allows us to pass objects online, which presents a new opportunity to creating curricular supports. So Alyssa focused on this illuminated manuscript page and this is her working early on to develop a kind of understanding of 1) simplifying the image to what's called an SVG, a Scalable Vector Graphic. And so you can see in that sort of top row, this was her initial efforts from going from what the image was to begin with on the left hand side and as she progressed to the SVG file, we do see some of the markings of the original image but there's so much noise going on. So again, this was that example of thinking about how do you simplify the image, how do you take away things to actually forward a better understanding of some of the strongest compositional elements? In this case it would be the sort of large opening letter form followed by the sort of top line and really focusing on that. So in the bottom row you see her second effort in really trying to subtract information from that original image and then using that conversion method of going from a JPEG image to an SVG and an SVG file is able to be manipulated in a very simple instructive program called Tinkercad. Tinkercad is an online environment and also this is another slide just highlighting the fact that all of the graphic work that you saw in the last slide was done using a free to use software editor called Pixlr. It's actually a website, it's a cloud-based graphic design program that's free to use and just again, I wanna highlight the fact that all the software and things that I'm using with my students, I try to approach using free and accessible software because, as art teachers, they might not have access to really robust, fancy software like they do now as students here at Penn State. So here is that Vector Graphic, that SVG file and what you can do in Tinkercad, again, Tinkercad is a cloud-based software environment, it's online, you basically sign up for the account and you can design 3D models in an online environment. It's an incredibly simple designing environment. I've worked with eight to 10 year olds working in Tinkercad and they're up and running in half an hour. It's really really quite simple to use. There's a very good tutorial that's embedded in Tinkercad but here we see Alyssa importing the image into Tinkercad and extruding that image up so it becomes a raised surface or a surface that's in relief from the background. So that was really her introduction to this process, go ahead, Elizabeth. E: Okay and then another project we worked was, so this actually was with ETS help. Alfredo Jiminez is at Hazleton and he was actually doing a 3D modeling project for his sighted students, so this is an example of a 3D math curve that would be really hard to visualize even in a 2D tactile graphic but you can use Mathematica and other tools to output a 3D print model which can be extruded. In this case, this was calculus and part of calculus is the idea of using integrals to calculate the volume or area underneath unusual curve but before that, apparently, they used to do a thing called slicing, so you have this weird amphitheater shaped object and if you slice it into a series of semicircles of different sizes and then add up the areas you'll eventually get the volume but that's sort of hard to visualize where all the slices are so he and actually Hannah Williams helped create these models here, which we then borrowed for the usability test with  the "A Team" who are blind user testers. So here you have the model and the sliced model and so the idea was, if we explain what was happening would they be able to understand the concept and I'm gonna go back [one slide]. it turns out that the answer is yes, our users were able to find the semicircular edge. They were able to put the pieces together within a minute. It was really amazing. We had Professor Jiminez there to help guide them through the lesson, so to speak, and, it really went well. I think the only comment we got is we have to find a way to label the top or edges [with Braille] and that's actually gonna be a challenge that we'll talk about later and so, the next project: this is combining the usability interests and Aaron's interest and that was: Could we talk about describing geometric designs, which are found in Celtic cultures, Islamic cultures and other cultures?  And why these designs? One, they're very complex, in fact, it's impossible to find accurate verbal descriptions of them. If they exist, they're very mathematically based. A lot of them talk about how hallucinogenic or angelic they are and that's not very helpful. And also [they may] may evoke an aesthetic or spiritual reaction. So the Islamic designs can be found in many mosques. The Celtic designs are found in Christian illuminated manuscripts and early art. So there's also an issue of cultural identity. We actually have people from the Middle East here on campus who also have visual disabilities. So is this a part of the culture that they can understand better now that they have access to tactiles? And also we were interested in certain characteristics such as how large does it have to be to be useful? Can you go up or can you go down to get a good effect? Print resolution, which in 3D printing means how much plastic are you depositing. Those of you who have seen our models in TLT probably realize that a lot of them have ridges on them because they're printed at a lower resolution. If you print at a higher resolution the surface is smoother. And also we were running into interactions with whether things were rounded or square or not. Also, how well can they perceive objects and again, we'll talk about that a little later but the idea of: Can they perceive the overall pattern or is it gonna be too chaotic? I think, Aaron, this is where you come in. A: Yeah so, first of all, in approaching this, these variables that we're interested in exploring, what we did is we put out a call and recruited a range of participants who were either blind or have low vision and this was self, they identified themselves as being in this category and so, there were six participants in all and we asked them to come in and we had a series of objects that we had essentially created for the occasion. So, we used very simple modeling software using Tinkercad. All the objects were printed using PLA plastics, so this is fuse deposition modeling, again, something like a MakerBot but we also did crowdsource some models from Thingiverse, meaning we used models that were openly available online that we did not personally make but that were relevant to our study of both Celtic and Islamic designs. So you can see a little bit on the right hand side, all the images on the right hand side are either depictions that come from the modeling environment that we're using or they're actually the physical objects, so here's a layout of a bunch of the objects that we're printing and using. I use the Maker Commons for all the prints and so, looking at things like, again, looking at different Islamic designs, different kinds of Celtic designs. We also incorporated certain repetitions in terms of the design being both 3D printed and using a more Swell Graphic approach. Swell Graphics are essentially a special kind of paper where an ink is placed on top that actually raises the surface or creates a relief via more of like a special chemical process as opposed to laying down plastic. So the total participants ranged in the ages of 20 to 50, they were US and non-US citizens, so they were gender-wise split down the middle and vision loss was different, was at different ages, which certainly came with different kinds of experiences with the objects. We had six individual sessions, so in other words, we had a range of objects that we were asking people to use and really just asking them questions about their experience, asking them to talk about how they were experiencing the object, what could they identify, what could they not identify and then we also would, we had a focus group, a follow-up, where we'd bring in small groups of folks to talk about their experiences with the study but also their experiences with cultural data like images, like these sort of designs. What sorts of ways had they had previous experience, were these in any way familiar? For some of them, that was memory-based and for some of them, that was more like a cultural environment, in other words, that they were familiar that these designs were in existence but in terms of their own personal experience, that was very limited. So, some of the things that we learned along the way, as Elizabeth sort of mentioned before, this issue of the size of Braille where it becomes sort of comprehendible, if you look at the object on the right hand side, these are numbers that are associated with shapes, these are all raised surfaces and you see those little nubby things, those are actually the Braille representations for the numbers and due to the size and also the sort of resolution of the prints themselves, it became difficult at some points to discern what number was actually indicated, so that became kind of one of the issues that a lot of the participants talked about. We also had a lot of sort of feedback around the surface qualities, in other words, the sharpness of the edges and/or the kind of ridges and things like that. For instance, the top left hand corner, that's a circle but actually if you look really close, it's a many, many, many sided polygon 'cause that's how the modeling environment models it, so some participants were able to discern that and they kind of literally started to say well, it's kind of like a circle but actually it has all these little sides, so maybe it's more like a many sided polygon. E: Oh, actually, before we go, I also wanted to mention the Braille dots fell off, so that doesn't help. A: We also played around with this idea of raising surface or sort of having surfaces drop below, so there's kind of this two different tactics here, if you look at these two tactile graphics, they're actually the same design pattern but one, the pattern itself is raised from the surface and in the other, the pattern drops below the surface. We found, generally, that the positive relief, the left hand side, was more discernible, folks were able to, via tactility, sort of better understand, better describe, better interact with the design and be able to distinguish it's characteristics. This was, let's see, yeah, these are some of the similar points I was raising before, so thinking about, again, how the resolution of the print comes across, feeling the ridges and how that becomes something that's interpreted but maybe you haven't intended to be interpreted, being careful of sharp points and then, again, thinking about that many sided polygon. E: Yeah and also, this is the back of the design so the original is a raised bowl with the design on top and this is what the back looks like. A: So the smooth edges were definitely preferred, so in the bottom left hand corner, you see an example of, essentially we're trying to use different techniques to represent a circle, so one on the left hand side is a circle that has a kind of 90 degree edge to it, the second one is actually the outline of a circle but has a 90 degree edge both on the inside and outside of that outline, the third one is more of a tortoise shape which is kind of like a doughnut, so you have this rounded thing but also creates an outline and then the fourth one was literally a kind of bump that represents, it would also be like the edge of sphere as opposed to a raised cylinder. You also see on the right hand side, you can't really tell very much but this is one of those Swell graphics, so again, we did find that the Swell graphics had a certain amount of impact and were in some ways, folks were able to interact with them but I think, generally speaking, there was a kind of interest and fascination with the 3D printed objects for most of the participants that there really wasn't with the Swell graphics, so I think we were finding some real positive engagement with the 3D printing objects, but there were aspects around sort of the real sort of fine points of tactility that needed to be kind of worked out a little bit and that's actually what we're trying to find more about. So here's just another example. We can go to the next slide. E: Oh and this is here where things are breaking off again and just, you can see how sharp things can get. A: So again, here's a couple of those Swell graphics, thinking about, another thing that we were trying to sort of figure out was optimal size, so what are sizes where people can actually interact? What you can't tell in this slide is that this actually is the same image as the 3D printed object that was done both in relief and also they had the positive relief and the negative relief, so we actually had that in two different versions as a 3D printed object but also as a Swell graphic and finding just kind of which one was most able to transmit the information and that goes back to the idea of cultural data. So the expression cultural data is a little bit funny but it really is meant to indicate those kinds of designs that aren't easily communicated but that has significance and have ways for us to interact and be able to understand them in ways and, so we're trying to sort of find a series of experiences from our participants that would help us to understand the more effective way to create these tactiles. So this was one of the more complex objects. This was one that we grabbed from Thingaverse. So this was actually designed by someone else and what we saw, that sort of head-like profile figures were definitely coming through in terms of a visual experience but we found, actually, largely none of the participants were getting that kind of detail, the things that they were picking up on were certain types of symmetries, defining different kinds of edge lines, making some association with that kind of pretzel shape that's mirrored in the middle, between that and say, other tactiles. So in Celtic designs, that kind of interweaving, rope-like image will come up quite often and, so there were some folks that were able to make that connection across different tactiles but in terms of recognizing what we can see clearly as a profiled face or at least, Elizabeth and I can see, was not really coming across in the tactiles. E: And also, oh, just before we go, we would, if we were designing it from scratch, we probably wouldn't have that edge in there. That would interfere with the tactile experience. A: So some of the kind of aesthetic responses, aesthetics can be an interesting, complicated topic because aesthetics really is about sensory experiences that become meaningful and we often think of aesthetics as a field of philosophy that interfaces with the arts and how we sort of interact with art objects and architectural experiences and spaces but we did find that the more kind of volumetric the design. In other words, this design on the right hand side here was actually a domed, this is actually the front side of that object you were looking at before. So this has not only a really intricate surface design which can be felt but the whole object is kind of dome-like and shield-like and we found participants really kind of becoming quite drawn to those objects, although again, discerning specifics about the layout, the composition, the complicated surfaces, wasn't as easy. But I think, my impressions and what we found largely was that there was an amount of interaction which was pleasurable for them, so again, this goes back to the idea of the significance of cultural data is our enjoyment in someways. So while we're looking to have things that are learned and different ideas that can be sort of picked up about geometry and symmetry and scale, I was actually really curious about this idea of them sort of enjoying working with certain objects over other objects. There was a question, I'm sorry, I don't have the chat window open. E: Let's see. A: "How long have you been working with accessibility for art, is this research published?" So I do have something that's come out, I'll keep this window open over here, I do have an article that's come out, that's gonna be coming out this spring about the work I was doing with those students so Alyssa actually is a co-author and I'll make sure and forward that onto Elizabeth when it hits the printed page, which should be very soon. Let's go to the next slide. So again, thinking about that idea of the volume of design, so this really is where, maybe where an artist and designer is thinking in a way that's pushing the envelope of tactility, So I think in the ideas of tactile graphics you have what's practical, what are materials that are accessible, what are materials that are affordable and I think once those objects or once those ideas transfer over to what I do, it also becomes this idea of how can we push the envelope of creating volumes, of creating form that communicate different ideas? So, here's a core example of that. In these two objects, one of the most important experiences of how we perceive space and relationships with space in Celtic designs is the kind of weaving effect, in other words, Celtic designs often have this impression, usually in a 2D format, of something going over or under, it has a rope-like effect to it and so how do you begin to transmit that information? So the left hand side really takes the relief to and you can't quite tell but many of you can tell a little bit, where there is curvature of the line but it doesn't quite come off of that flat plate surface and on the right hand side, this is just totally, now there is no plate, this becomes a sort of free, in the round sculptural object that people can really interact with and get a real sense of that kind of over, under aspect that is so much a part of the aesthetics of Celtic designs. So, again, this requires more sophistication in terms of the 3D modeling but it tends to up the impact factor, again, I'm trying to get folks to have an experience with these that might approach communicating information but also that might get to that kind of aesthetic quality, that idea of having a kind of pleasurable or sensory experience with an art or design. So there's a balancing act here, not easy to accomplish but maybe gets more to the kind of cultural data that I was certainly interested in. Is this me or is this you? So certainly, one of the things, we can both speak to this 'cause this was also another sort of fascinating part of it was the kinds of unanticipated cultural responses that we were getting, so in other words, working with Celtic designs and also Islamic designs, you have kind of worldviews, religious views, historical aspects that sort of rise up through the user testing and while we may not be focusing necessarily on that component, it's a part of our participants and so they bring those life experiences with them which allow them to interface with these objects in unique ways that is a part of their cultural identity and not necessarily a part of the tactiles themselves. Elizabeth, do you wanna say anything about that? E: Well yes, the tree thing was interesting, I think the second point, which was, as we mentioned, most of the users, when we gave them the object and didn't give them any prompting really couldn't discern too many patterns other than maybe the pretzel. Part of it was, especially with the Islamic designs and this one too, the focus, our eyes naturally know to, focus at the center and work their way out but blind users are taught to go top to bottom, left to right, top to bottom so they imagine scanning it, seeing a partial scan. That may work for a lot of academic things but our question is, do you need to help people using tactiles understand where to focus their attention to make it more meaningful, to help them realize where the symmetries are? Anything else before I move? A: I would just add that I think there's a lot of really interesting work going on with eye tracking software and headgear that's actually teaching us a lot 'cause I'm actually not so sure that in a Western cultural and social space that we also, as sighted users, don't also do top to bottom, left to right because that's how we read and so, there is some research emerging that while compositional effects draw our eyes in certain ways, there are strategies that we learn about how to look at something and so there's really interesting kinds of eye tracking software that's kind of opening up that conversation and especially looking at art objects and so maybe that one day those kinds of studies can overlap. We can kind of look at tactility but we can also do some comparisons in terms of sighted users and these objects, that would be actually quite interesting. E: Yes and how does that interact with different types of objects? So I guess our next steps are, obviously we're gonna pursue this research. We need to write up our results and probably do additional testing, which is always what happens. I would say also, have we learned anything? To me, I feel like we're learning lessons on one 3D project, 3D prints are gonna be more usable than Swell graphics. No surprisingly, I don't think if replicating the same kind of design in a 3D print is as effective but learning to use the capabilities, such as volume, is probably gonna be more effective. A: I would also say, from my own kind of perspective, because I'm not a instructional designer and so my investment in this is slightly askewed to my interest in educating future art teachers and so one of the core rationales for why I think this work is important is that it teaches really fundamental issues about universal design and so these are future teachers who will need to anticipate, how to accommodate and include all users or all learners in their classroom. And so, for me, it's a really dynamic and exciting way to think about a curriculum designer as being sort of empowered by digital fabrication technologies that allow them to create really, really dramatic curricular support systems in their classrooms. That's the kind of excitement and energy that I think is very interesting. It also gives me a really good excuse to ask my students to skill up around what I think are some really interesting types of technologies that have to do, that can impact their work. E: And just as an update, when I went to a conference a few weeks ago, tactiles did come up and one of the more interesting talks was they talked about Basic Identity Tags and the theme of that was that they had a hypothesis that blind users, when they're using tactiles don't necessarily recognize shapes the way sighted people do but instead are more likely to organize content by line type, angles. So angles, angle width, curving, not versus straight, things like that are more salient to them and that would make sense with the results we were getting where most of our blind testers would recognize maybe triangles or different angles but not necessarily, at least not readily connect them into a coherent whole, like I think a lot of sighted people do. And then also, looking at things, this was an interesting concept. This is a traditional 2D tactile and you can actually see the raised lines and rainfall patterns in India and you have different textures, this is the heavy rainfall, this is less heavy but they are also experimenting with using height, so the higher the area, the more rainfall it has and the lower... and this is something that could also be done more easily on a 3D printer than the other technologies we have ready access to. And apparently she got good user results with that but again, the question is, what kind of medium do we need to do that with, I don't think it would work with default MakerBot settings we currently have very well, but a higher resolution, I think that would show promise. A: It think it could also be a matter of working with some of the materials in post-production kinds of processing, so, for example if you're working with ABS plastics, which is a petroleum-based plastic, you can actually use rubbing alcohol to smooth and kind of almost like melt the surface a little bit, so there are ways that we can think about a kind of, that printing itself provides the core object which then might need to be manipulated further to create the kind of smoother surfaces, the more tactile-friendly, surfaces that we're after. But of course we need to explore which of those processes is cost-effective, easy to use, not very toxic, I mean, those are all issues that would be important. A: Right and also, someone mentioned they were using sandpaper some of the time for things like the Braille labels, could you use sandpaper to make them a little smoother. And lastly, on sort of one of the hotter topics is this refreshable Braille display. So some of you may have seen our testers use this. I have a two line version so, as they're reading a document, like the different Braille patterns will raise and lower depending on which letters is being processed, sort of like ticker tape, stock market ticker tape type element, but now they're coming up with like a whole grid of these dots so that may allow for refreshable displays which could be useful for helping illustrate motion in a way that static can't do it right now. We think there's a lot of exciting potential here and we still need to figure out how to tap into it, how to leverage open source materials, hardware, software expertise, things like that. Aaron, what are your final thoughts? A: Nothing, just that I think that the field of this kind of practice is definitely emerging in museum studies and museum education, so I know that there's a lot of accessibility folks working very hard to think about interaction design in museum spaces and I think digital fabrication presents a lot of opportunities, I know there's a lot of energy. In fact, I'm looking at a issue from the Disability Studies Quarterly that was released in 2013, it's a two part issue that deals with museum experience and blindness, so there's a lot of energy out there about these topics that have to do with how people access cultural data, how they interact with artifacts and some of those arts and some of those historical but certainly my interests have to do with the arts learning space and there's a lot of opportunity for overlap there. But we have a couple minutes for questions too so if there are any questions, be happy to entertain those as well. E: And Marilyn had one: how do we learn more? We did establish a Yammer group, so I can send that out to our participants, Heidi and I think Joanne Dornant was there too and Marilyn. I know that there's other activities, subgroups going on but I think it's probably a larger discussion, which I can talk to Aaron about also, how do we coordinate activities because I know, for instance, I know some people might be researching accessible SVG and there are applications there, so, I know Joo, who's one of our grad student testers, is really interested in SVGs on an iPad, which can have tactile information and also sound annotations. There's a lot of really interesting stuff happening. There's also sonification where you add certain tones to things, so like if you have a parabola that goes down then goes back up, you might a tone going something like (beeps) but there was another-- - [Marilyn] How was that, Elizabeth, I didn't catch that? - Oh, for the parabola? - You've got to be kidding. - I'll try it again (beeps). - [Marilyn] We got that on video. A: There's actually a great sonic artist and technologist by the name of Mark Ballora who works in the College of Arts and Architecture in our music program who does a lot of sonification work. He's done a lot of really amazing work with meteorological data, sort of different types of data from the Arctic, working with environmental scientists to sonify some of the things that they're, some of the data sets that they're working with. So Mark Ballora is someone that's also, he's not working with creating objects, he's more working in the sound space but there's certainly, I think those endeavors are really connected. E: And, also at CSUN they had a good demo from someone doing business graphs, so like the stock market and graphs like that and they were adding sonification to that to show how things might be very volatile in the short term but in the long term you might see a longer trend and it sounded very pretty, it had piano chimes. - [Heidi] Cool. I don't have any specific questions. [Formal Presentation Ends Here]. I just have to say that I'm like seriously completely blown away, are you as well, Marilyn? - [Marilyn] Yes, I didn't think some of this was even possible. - And I wanna play with these things, can I touch them please? - Yes. - Like, Aaron, you and Elizabeth need to bring this to Learning Summer Camp and-- A: Well let me throw something out there that I'm starting to develop in my mind because I'm good at mashing up things I'm interested in, so I'm interested in hackathons and makerspaces. I'm interested in accessibility, universal design and tactiles and so, something I've been letting Elizabeth know I'm gearing up to do is next year I wanna do a series of makeathons where we put together educational technologists, instructional designers, beneficiaries of the assistive devices and also engineers and really spend an intensive design period together where we come up with tactiles that would benefit. So my first idea is to work with children's literature. So, consulting with the library, maybe their children's literature, their children's librarian, ask them, okay, what are your 10 most popular children's books and then challenging design teams to develop a set of tactiles that could be used with those books and then we just make those freely available. So that's the kind of work that I'm interested in, I'm interested in those kinds of events, I'm interested in getting people working together in different ways to kind of find different possibilities and then also to put that out in the world and make it open source and make it kind of as openly available as possible. So, I'll definitely be keeping Elizabeth updated, I'm sure that she'll push that out, I can use the Yammer group to let folks know how that's coming together but I think that'd be a real opportunity to take, again, novices and introduce them into a process where they can bring their expertise, even if it has nothing to do with 3D printing. Maybe you're an instructional designer, so you have real instincts about how to convey information in a learning space, well, that's really beneficial for someone who's say, an engineer, who knows everything about 3D printing but knows nothing about teaching, so those are the kind of dynamics and opportunities I'm looking to put forward. E: Oh yeah, actually Marilyn has invited us to do something in the Dreamery field so, I would definitely be interested. - [Marilyn] You really really have to do this. My office is right across from Dreamery, I'm in TLT but can you imagine inviting your art students, faculty, the students that would love to be able to see that this is a possibility. You could open up a whole new world, even for some of these students that are doing engineering types of things, send them on kind of a new path, at least if you maybe touch one or two people but yeah, definitely, Elizabeth, I'll send an email to both of you and then we can kind of see what we can come up with. I know it's coming towards the end of the semester, Aaron, I know you're gonna be a little bit busy but maybe you could squeeze it in a little bit somewhere. - What I'd like to do is establish communication, have a couple of conversations and then think about next year. - [Marilyn] That would be wonderful, yes, yes. - Seriously, I cannot wait to share this recording with my husband. (Elizabeth laughs) - [Marilyn] I know, isn't it amazing? - We don't send a lot of stuff to each other 'cause we have very different careers but he loves to do 3D printing stuff. That's just, he's all about it, all about designing but he has a hobby of, what's those little cars? Radio control cars from the '70s and he'll buy these old ones and he'll fabricate a little teeny tiny little part to go in it because he can't buy that part anymore and he just loves this kind of stuff and I was just thinking, god, he would love to do this, to be a part of creating these kinds of things, like designing them. - Well, I have to run to a meeting at 12 I can't be late for. - Thank you, Aaron, this was fascinating. 