 Hi, my name is Gavin Smith and today we're going to be taking a look at exploring DICOM medical data on the Voxon VX1 volumetric display. So the first thing we're going to do is head over to the cancer imaging archive dot net website which is a great repository for finding free? anonymized data to look at. The repository is filled with data from all different modalities, that's different types of CT and MRI scans, but the ones we're going to be looking at today are from CT scans and that's because the CT scanner tends to give very high contrast images, which work well on the Voxon VX1 so we can use this tick box here to limit our search criteria and then you'll see a whole range of different data sets to download. So we're just going to pick one at random here and then in the column where it says number of images we're going to pick one with over a hundred images because that'll give us the best detail and click the preview button as you can see from this preview the images are very high contrast so the bony part of the image, white is going to be really really good for segmenting the data after we've downloaded it, so once you've picked a file that you're interested in just close the preview and then click the little green button which says 'Add to basket' We're then going to go up to the 'Manage data basket' tab and download the 'Java downloader'. Once you've downloaded the downloader you might get a question about Java. We can skip that press 'later' and then download this script. Choose a directory to download your files to. The DICOM data is usually a folder full of DCM files downloading. You can see all the DCM files arriving in the directory. Once it's finished you should find a whole range of DICOM files, which we're going to select, right click shift, and we're going to zip it up. Just give it a meaningful name and zip it up. We're now ready to test that with VoxieOS so if you put that in your media folder run VoxieOS and then navigate to your media folder, you should find your zipped up DICOM in there, which you can then open. So I'm not going to turn on the screen recording so you can see what buttons I'm pressing but the buttons should be displayed on the on the interface in the front of the VX1 or on the screen if you're using a simulator and the hitting tab and pressing the .DCM play tab will show you some of the DICOM specific attributes. We're first going to turn down the density from the render tab just to make it as easy to see as possible then using the DCM tab we can do some of the things such as up the detail level with the highest level of detail the interactive speed will drop a little bit, so we'll turn that down a little bit. 'Detail at stop' means that the detail will be 'maximum' when the image is stationary, but as soon as you start interacting with the model, sorry when you stop interacting with the model, it will go to the highest level, so you can leave that turned on. By adjusting the contour values, in fact first of all we're going to set the use the shortcuts on the keyboard to set the quality levels pressing Q, W, E or R will set the various degrees of quality and by holding ctrl, you can lock that quality in place so ctrl Q being the highest level of quality, Control R. Being the lowest level of quality which offers the highest of the fastest interaction speed. Changing the threshold with the nine and zero keys will allow you to parse through the data and choose which density values you're going to convert to a 3D model. Pressing ctrl at the same time will make it go faster and pressing shift will make it very slow. You can also do this from the DCM tab as well using the the mouse sliders. We're just rotating the model around using the 3D CAD mouse, zooming in to whatever level of detail you want and again changing the threshold using control with 0 and 9 to adjust the 3D model. One of the other options we can do whilst looking at DICOM is internal measuring and we can do that by turning on a measurement point using the H key and that starts this little sphere inside the volume and then by pressing J and K and L keys, we can do things like measure distances and L will now measure angles between two points. Pressing the H key again will disable that feature. Pressing the N key or pressing and turning on the cross-section mode will enable a virtual CT or x-ray mode and this allows us to look at a virtual cross-section through the MRI data on any plane at all the plane can be rotated and moved with the 3D space Mouse and you can change the thresholds of that cross-section using the same Keys as before, 9 and 0. What we're going to do now is turn on dual coloring and to show you dual segmentation, so we've set the two thresholds to green and red and we can now adjust those thresholds separately using the sliders on the DCM menu or the keys 9 and 0 and - and = for the right threshold so by doing that we can set one threshold to represent the skin in this case and the green left are short to represent the bone. We're also running the VX1 in dual color mode which can be accessed on the render tab so in this case we're using the red green color mode and you can see the yellow there where it which is a combination of red and green and where the colors overlap. Finally we're going to use the save to 'Save to STL' function here, and this will save the current segmented geometry to an STL file, and if you then browse the directory where the DCM file was found, you'll find an STL file. Opening it up, in this case we're opening up in Meshlab, and you could then use that for 3D printing or importing into some other 3D program. That's it for just now. Let's take a look at some of the DICOM data running on the VX1. Thanks for listening 