 [MUSIC PLAYING] STEVE CLIFFE: Ultrahaptics, in 10 years time, will be literally in everything. Ultrahaptics uses focused ultrasonics-- that's high frequency sound waves-- which we focus them to a point which creates just enough pressure to put an indentation in your skin. TOM CARTER: So in terms of the applications, I really break it down into two different categories. One is controlling devices without touching them-- so the ability to walk up to a device or hold your hand over the centre console of your car and have the controls find your hand. And the other half is feedback for immersive realities-- so virtual reality, augmented reality. We enable you to reach out and not just touch, but actually feel the digital content and feel what you're touching. STEVE CLIFFE: In terms the milestones that we've achieved so far-- we have a customer whose licenced our technology, built a product, launched it, and it's in production, and we have running royalties. So for any business-- for that to happen or the first one to happen is absolutely vitally important. So it's now just about repeating it and repeating it and repeating it. TOM CARTER: It's never entirely plain sailing-- any journey of any company. The bumps we've had so far been pretty small. We're always looking ahead as to what could go wrong, where there could be problems, and making sure that if there's anything that's really critical to the business we really depend on, we have a backup plan or we have two horses running in the race so that if one doesn't make it, the other one gets there. We still have a record today of delivering every single customer project on time. STEVE CLIFFE: Patient capital for Ultrahaptics has been absolutely crucial in our development. What it's meant is we've been given the time and the opportunity to grow a long-lasting business. TOM CARTER: You will really see it in a huge number of different products, which is what gets us that growth. There's also massive applications in health care and rehabilitation and accessibility, which are all really compelling. And just as the company grows, you'll see this scope and span of and where we can apply our haptics to grow immeasurably, I think. [MUSIC PLAYING] 