 [Rosemary Barton] As Canada's Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Theresa Tam has become the public face of Ottawa's effort to fight COVID-19. I think we can cautiously move to what I would call a new normal. A big part of that new normal are her near daily briefings at noon Eastern patiently explaining the massive effort physical distancing and all the other public health measures that you've observed have been working. Delivering the good news and the bad. There are now 47,327 confirmed cases including 2,617 deaths. Dr. Tam is no stranger to pandemics and what it takes to fight them. She's advised the World Health Organization on deadly infectious diseases like Ebola and polio. Here in Canada she was a key part of the team that responded to SARS and h1n1. This time she is leading the charge as the country's top doctor. This is our chance right here, right now. And we need to act now and act together now. As the country rolls into its third month of the COVID-19 pandemic there are ongoing questions about how it's been handled so far. It's very far apart, it's very weird. This weekend, I sat down with Dr. Theresa Tam in Ottawa for her first in-depth interview since the pandemic was declared about her role and her response. Dr. Tam, hello. Hello. Thank you for making the time, I know you're very very busy. And I appreciate it and I'm sure Canadians will too. It's a pleasure to be here I want to start sort of at where this started and that was the first sign that there was something something happening in Wuhan at the end of December. How quickly did you get a sense that there was something unusual unfolding there? Well, I think immediately I felt that this was something that I really needed to take notice of. Probably the very morning of New Year's day. Because December the 31st was when some of this was being picked up and by January the second I had already sent out a email to the Chief Medical officer of Health saying that there's been an observation of this cases of pneumonia of unknown source. So there wasn't a lot really known and this is why I'm concerned. Right. Because we've experienced SARS and we've experienced other outbreaks that could turn into something more serious. But at that time you actually didn't know. By January 14th, the WHO was saying there may have been human-to-human transmission just "may."  By January 22nd they said there was some evidence of that. What we've seen are human-to-human transmission events among close contacts and families and in health care settings. And yet through that period we as a country still decided to continue to let travellers arrive from China. As many as 58 thousand, more than 2,000 from Hubei province. And we were only screening at that point, correct me if I'm mistaken symptomatic passengers. I'm wondering if that if we should not have been doing more at that point given that there was already some evidence that this was being transmitted from human-to-human. Yes so it's always good to sort of look back and see you know what what actually happened and that was when we had previously then instituted this enhanced border measures where we provided information to all travellers from China to watch out for symptoms etc. That was actually quite effective in that our initial travellers actually did very well in that they followed advice. In the end in terms of travellers from China-- If I recall correctly, throughout this whole period until the beginning of March. We had about ten travel related cases and they were all managed very well. So you know could we have done more at the time? you can retrospectively say, yes absolutely. You could screen more or you could change your stars. But at the time we had very very few cases globally and in Canada. Again I realized that these are hindsight questions. But I do wonder whether there should have been more said to Canadians about the risk or should have been more done about the volume. Like who cares how many people are coming from China. We should have just done more anyway. Globally as a public health community we need to ensure containment and support containment at source. [Rosemary] In China [Dr. Tam] That's right. And of course if that is not working more needs to be done. But at the same time I think there were countries that did more and in the end it wasn't that effective if you actually think about the countries in the end that were impacted because I think from a public health perspective we always knew that the border was just one layer of additional measure. It is actually quite anti-intuitive I think for Canadians to think: Well, if you just shut the border that would solve the problem. I think even then the illness unbeknownst to most of us had already traveled somewhere else which actually became immediately obvious when British Columbia detected a traveller that had traveled to a country that wasn't really reporting cases. Iran, I think you mean. Yes and then the European countries and some of whom had enacted border measures. And there were some -- in at least in that first weekend there was some confusion in airports that you were supposed to go to the electronic kiosk and and say where you had come from. Some people got information and some didn't. It felt like there was some lack of coordination. Yes, so I think we went with some public messaging first. Travellers are being asked to identify if they have flu-like symptoms fever-like symptoms. There's additional questions on the kiosk as well that really targeted into the sort of regional area of Wuhan. And so this allows for a closer examination. You can imagine the complexity of the international border. Just updating machines and getting the operational elements done does take a bit of time. So often the policy is upfront and then you're still trying to implement. That was absolutely the feedback that we got as well. So it's just layers of protection, really. Some of them could have been stronger at the beginning but all the other layers were being put in at the same time. So, was it perfect? No. But I think as you've seen over time those layers have kept being strengthened as well. We decided, I think it was March, was it March 18th? We closed the border to non-essential travel between Canada and the U.S. and you have said that some of those border measures did really help to flatten the curve. How big a health risk was the United States at that point? Absolutely, it's the volume of in such a travel between the country is huge. The signs were there that certain areas of the United States there were hotspots and that was a bigger concern almost to our provinces and territories than Europe. Europe was a big concern but also the United States. So we knew that more had to be done. But let's just dial back a little bit in our pandemic preparedness. We actually had something called the North American pandemic avian influenza plan. Some of the assumptions in influenza pandemics at least was that if it was in one country, it was in the other country. And that border measures may not be that effective because in effect the virus is in both sides of the border. To execute an actual border reduction wasn't actually very obvious in any of our planning. So that was something that had to be again scaled up in our thinking but it wasn't necessarily part of public health planning either. Because we just felt, well the virus is both sides. Yeah, I remember everyone saying at the beginning well the viruses travel, shutting borders isn't the right thing to do because we need to know where people are and where they're going. It does sound to me like you're thinking on that has evolved a little bit. For the world. [Rosemary] Yes, for the world, yes. [Dr. Tam] And again, imagine now when every country and what the international travel has come to a grinding halt wasn't this an arrow that was I think in anybody's playbook. North America was felt to be a continent. Of course now with hindsight, you go OK. Shutting that land border and all the other entry points is an actual option? OK, you know. But at that point if people will open minded, honestly. This was an option and I think when our decision maker was saying anything is on the table I think they really meant it and they were considering everything but the complexity of doing that I think one can only imagine but it was done in the end.  