 Learning how to register for classes online at  Middlesex Community College: the first things   you're going to want to do are to open up your  web browser and go to mxcc.edu. This will take   you straight to the Middlesex Community College  front page. If you already know the classes that   you would need to take for your degree, I will  show you how to find the CRN affiliated with that   class. The CRN stands for the "course registration  number" and it links the certain type of class to   this specific class option that you were choosing  to register for. If you do not know the class or   classes that you need to take, please contact your  assigned faculty advisor. If you do not know who   your assigned faculty advisor is, you can access  this information on Degree Works on myCommnet. I   will show you how to access your faculty advisor  now if you are not already aware how to do it.   From the Middlesex Community College homepage, you  can click right on here. That says "myCommNet."   Once you were taken to myCommNet is where the  login screen is going to be. If you are not   familiar with how to log on to myCommNet there is  a separate video detailing all of the information   on how to do that. From this page right here you  can do a net ID lookup, need help signing in for   the first time if you're a new student or a new  student accessing the website. First time students   will not be allowed to register through myCommNet.  You will have to fill out a paper application. You   can reset your password and new user information.  If you already know your information though,   you can log on now. Once you are on, navigate to  the section of the page which is going to be in   the bottom left that says for Degree Works. You  will choose the college that you are attending,   which would be Middlesex Community College  and pick on there. Since I'm not a student   at Middlesex Community College, I will not  have an advisor displayed. Now that you have   found out your advisor or if you already knew your  advisor but you are not sure how to contact them   you can go back to the Middlesex Community College  homepage and click on "Faculty and Staff" to bring   up the directory. From the directory, all of the  full-time staff and faculty will be listed here. All of the full-time and part-time faculty and  every staff member at Middlesex will all have   the same formula for their email address which  is going to be the first letter of their first   name followed by the full last name @mxcc.edu. On  this website you can find out every instructors   phone number, their email address, and their  office location. Adjunct instructors will not   have a directory listing but they will have the  same phone number. Contact your instructor if   you need to by reaching out to them on their  email address or preferred contact information   provided on your syllabus. Contact your advisor  to set up and make an appointment to register   for classes to find out the ones that you need to  take. If you have already met with an advisor and   if picked out classes, your advisor might have  already given you the CRNs for the classes you   want to take. If you already have the CRNs,  please skip to the next step. If you don't   have the CRNs I'm going to show you how to find  those CRNs right now. Once you know the class   or classes that you were choosing to take make  your way back to the Middlesex Community College   homepage and then we will browse the course  schedule. Let's say for instance you want to   take English 101 Composition. Click on the button  that says myCommNet. Search for course offerings,   and then from here you'll be able to search  for all of the courses. We will choose the   any term available. Let's choose "Spring term  2020" and the Middlesex Community College. You,   from here you can search if a class is open or  closed or both as well as credit, non-credit, or   both. Since I wanted to take an English 101 class  you will scroll down until you get to English.   From here you can browse all of the offerings  of English classes that are available for this   selected semester. Since we said we wanted to  take English 101, here are all of the options   that are available. Just feel free to note the day  of the week the classes are offered on. MW means   Monday/Wednesday. TR means Tuesday/Thursday, where  a single letter will indicate only on Tuesday or   the day of the week that is chosen. Other things  to keep in mind are the capacity is listed for   how many people can register for the class. The  actual number is how many students are registered   for that class already, and the remainder numbers  how many seats are open left. Another thing to   notate is the date that the classes will run.  Some are full term semesters while others are   accelerated and late start which just have a  different date to be mindful of. From here you   will also notice the location, whether it's an  on-campus class or an online class. Make sure   to notate the CRN of the class that you wish to  take once you have found one that works for you.   If this composition, which is with traditional  Tuesday/Thursday 9:30 to 10:45, works for you,   notice there's a one spot left, we will take down  this one two three seven CRN. Feel free to write   that down as you continue browsing for classes  so you can register for them all later. Once   you have all of the CRNs for all of the classes  you would wish to register for we're gonna go   back to my myCommNet's home page. We're going to  click on the top right for banner self-service. Once you click on banner self-service you're  going to choose Middlesex Community College.   Since I was never a student at Middlesex Community  College, I will be choosing Three Rivers just so   I can show you the rest of the screens. They  will all stay the same. From here you're going   to choose the registration schedule. And then  you're going to just make sure to check items   that may prevent registration. This is where  you can check for holds, your academic standing,   placement test score recommendations, and,  um, your major. If you have no holds on your   account please feel free to move forward to  class registration. If you have any holds,   contact the Office of Enrollment Services.  When you're ready to register click here.   I just want to say now before you register,  please make sure that your financial aid is   completed and ready to go. If you're prepared  to self-pay, which is pay out-of-pocket,   then you are allowed to move forward. As well, I  just want you to be mindful that at the time of   registration you are responsible for all tuition  and fees. Once you're on here, choose the semester   that you are choosing to register for and press  submit. This is where you'll type in all of the   CRNs that you picked for one by one. Only four  numbers a full CRN goes in each box. When you are   ready to submit those changes after you've typed  them all you can press submit changes and this   will be registering you for those classes. Once  you have submitted this form the submit changes,   please contact the Business Office in order to  set up a payment so you won't be deleted from   your classes. Failure to non pay is a reason  for deleted from classes which could allow   someone else to take the spot at the class that  you would like. If you have any questions please   feel free to contact your advisor or us here at  the Enrollment Services Office. Thank you so much. 