 Hello, I'm Peter Hill, Senior Vice President for Medical Affairs for the Johns Hopkins Health System and the Vice President of Medical Affairs for Johns Hopkins Hospital. I'm here in the Blalog basement near the carpentry office. I don't know what they're gonna have me do, but I'm excited to get started. (dramatic music) What am I gonna be doing?  You're gonna be helping me with cabinets today.  Awesome.  We had to make sure everything was gonna fit. It's nice and square and we take our time and build each cabinet the size, different sizes, any size you want we can pretty much build.  The finished product is what patients see and interact with on a daily basis.  Here's safety glasses, you're gonna need those,  Fantastic.  We're gonna be working on the table saw.  Okay.  We're gonna be cutting this laminate down, so here's the switch, it's safety mechanisms so,  Okay. it will not cut your fingers, there's an automatic brake where the blade will drop down.  Well let's not touch that.  Yeah, we don't wanna touch that. You ready for the saw?  Yep, yep, ready for the saw. (saw blade whirring) You look around and there's saws and drills and everything else, there's a lot of stuff down here that can hurt you, so I know these guys take safety very seriously and do their work with that in mind. (saw blade whirring)  Next we're gonna be gluing up the laminate, to attach to the bottom of this cabinet.  Peter: Wow, alright.  There's that, you stick that up there.  It just stays there. - Here's the glue gun.  Glue gun?  Yep. Just spray it like you're painting it.  Alright, ready?  There you go.  Awesome. - Now come over here. Do the bottom of that.  You gotta do both huh?  Yes. (glue gun spraying)  There you go.  Alright great, you'll help me line this thing up?  Yep, yep, line it up.  Okay. - Then you just flip it up.  And there, okay. - Yep. And rub it on. - Okay.  Then we take it over to the table and we'll route it. What you're gonna do is start and just go right down and around.  Okay, alright. - This the switch, pull up when you're ready. - Okay.  Keep your fingers away from the blade.  Okay, here we go. (hand saw whirring)  Push straight in.  Peter: One of the things that's really impressed me and what I learned today, is that so much, if not almost all of what we're seeing, is made here at Hopkins, I mean that's incredible. (hand saw whirring)  And this is your finished cabinet, all we need to do is add the shelf in and that comes later once we have 'em home. He did a great job. We have two empty benches here if he needs a new profession. I'd welcome him here.  Our staff here are incredible. Every job here at Johns Hopkins is important and is integral to the success of the organization. Thank you for watching, and thank you for your continued commitment, here at Johns Hopkins Hospital. (dramatic music) 