 - Good afternoon, I'm Nora Triola, your Chief Clinical Officer, here to give the CEO COVID-19 update for Thursday, December 31st, 2020. First, I wanna talk about the subject that we're all excited about, right? Our vaccines. And they're coming, and we will be able to all be vaccinated if we want to. Some of the latest updates and then some important information that I wanna talk with you about today. First and foremost, there will be no cost to you, the individual employee, for the initial wave of the vaccine. That's either covered by the relationships we have with our insurers or the CARES Act, so good to go there, no cost to you, free of charge. Second, there's been some questions about whether we're going to mandate vaccines. We will not mandate vaccines. We are strongly encouraging and recommending that all our employees for safety, that added extra protection, get vaccinated, but it's not mandatory. We also want, if you've been vaccinated, that you notify your supervisor and save your vaccination card. We're looking for the best and easiest way to upload that information, so there'll be more to come on that in the upcoming presentations. And then most importantly, we have partners. We have partners both at Aetna and CVS who are working tirelessly with us to vaccinate all our employees, as well as the Departments of Health in the 23 states. This is a complex issue. We don't have a federal plan for every employee and every individual in our country. We have 50 states and they each have a different plan, but that plan includes all of us to be vaccinated. And so while we work with our primary partner, CVS, we also have all the Departments of Health actually sending requests for our employee list to be vaccinated. And then we have partnerships with, for example, congregate living or some of our joint ventures, so we're also opening up slots for employees to be vaccinated in those situations. And so in order to be sure that every individual who wants to get vaccinated is up as high on the list, the priority list, as early as possible, we are responding to those very short turnaround time requests and providing information on your behalf. If you choose not to get vaccinated and you're contacted, just tell the individual on the phone that you don't wanna be vaccinated. But we wanted to make sure that if you did wanna get vaccinated, you got the earliest call that you could get. So when we get a request from the state, we go ahead and release only that non-sensitive information and only just as little as possible so that we can get your name on the list. And those examples of when we get in a request may include just your name, or it may be name and birthday, or it might include contact information, but this is again to ensure that each and every one of you get a slot as early as possible. And as I said, there's multiple venues for how we're all gonna get vaccinated. So we'll keep giving you more and more information as we learn about this. And if we go to the next slide, we can see that there's already been individuals within our organization that have been vaccinated. And this is a couple of pictures of clinicians from Arizona who were one of the earliest in our organization to be vaccinated. And so again, some happy faces using that extra level of protection, which is that vaccine, to make sure that they're safe to care for our clients. And as you've gifted me before, please send photos of you getting vaccinated. It sometimes is the greatest encouragement for an individual colleague of yours who may be a little bit on the fence and to see that so many of their individual friends and colleagues have been vaccinated, may just tip the scales a bit and help us get everybody vaccinated. So please, again, in gratitude, thanks for all you do to care for our clients. This is the latest update on the vaccines. More information will be coming. Keep yourself safe, enjoy the holiday, and we'll see you in 2021. 