 You’ve probably noticed signs posted at airports and government offices about how REAL ID is coming. Though if you look online, it’s a total mess. While the rule goes into effect in October 2020, the Department of Homeland Security site says something to the effect of it starting in January 2018. Yeah, 2018! What’s going on everyone? It’s Ernest from Trip Astute. In this video, we’re going to discuss the REAL ID requirement and hopefully clarify the confusing mess that’s associated with this new law. (light chiming music) As I mentioned earlier, REAL ID is coming. The REAL ID Act was passed by Congress in 2005 in response to September 11th in an effort to standardize official identifications issued across the US such as driver’s licenses. The goal was to establish minimum security standards. The idea was that it would make domestic air travel safer by reducing the number of fake IDs that are in circulation since the cards feature additional security information. REAL ID has not been embraced by a lot of states or even groups that advocate privacy. These groups are concerned that personal data will end up in the hands of a central national database. Though the federal government contends that they are simply providing a standard set of requirements for all official IDs, and will not be storing the data in one central place. Before we dig deeper into REAL ID, if you’re new here, welcome to our channel. Trip Astute is a travel channel that is focused on sharing ways to make travel easier, affordable, and more enjoyable. Traveling can be stressful and expensive, so we’re looking for ways to help you maximize your experience through travel tips, points and miles, and innovative gear. If that sounds interesting to you, please consider subscribing. Officially, in October 2020, you’ll need to provide a form of identification that is REAL ID compliant on all domestic flights. The ID that is most commonly used by passengers is their driver’s license. But what makes a driver’s license a REAL ID? In most states, you’ll see a gold or black star on the front of the license, though that’s not always the case either. Another way to know if you have a real ID is to check whether the ID says “Not for Federal Identification” or “Federal Limits Apply”. If you see that on your driver’s license, then you definitely do not have a REAL ID. Ironically, my driver’s license which I renewed in 2016 doesn’t have the disclaimer or star symbol, but I know it’s not REAL ID compliant. As you can see, it’s pretty confusing. So, what about this January 2018 date? This date on the DHS website confuses everyone as well. Basically, DHS is saying that if you’re from a state that isn’t compliant, then you need to provide additional information starting in 2018. Though most states are in compliance, and those that aren't, have asked for extensions. My guess is that states that are behind on the compliance effort will continue to ask for extensions rather than having to deal with passengers who are denied onto their flights before October 2020. Technically it could happen, but I think it’s highly unlikely. I think the only state where there is a risk of this happening is California since they are currently in under review status. California’s situation is a bit confusing. The state was previously in compliance and started to issue REAL IDs last year. However, DHS then said that California’s proof of residency checks were insufficient, so the state was placed in review status. I still think they are going to sort it out. California has already started to ask for more documentation when getting a REAL ID, so I would be surprised if they are not marked green or yellow on the chart soon. I really dislike that DHS is putting out the statement about 2018 because I think it’s confusing a lot of people. I honestly think that it would be more effective to just publicize the October 2020 date as that seems to be when things are actually going to change. With all that said, you will need to have some form of REAL ID by October 2020. The good news is that you don’t have to get a REAL ID driver’s license if you already have another REAL ID compliant identification, such as a Global Entry card, a passport, US Passport Card, Enhanced Driver’s License, and several others. So, if you have Global Entry, you technically already have a REAL-ID complaint identification card. If you don’t have Global Entry, I highly suggest getting it, especially if you have a credit card that will pay for it. For more information on Global Entry, check out our video on it. If you want to get a REAL ID compliant driver’s license, then you’ll need to go to your DMV in-person and bring along some additional documentation. You’ll need proof of identity, which can be a US Birth Certificate, US Passport, Employment Authorization Document, Permanent Resident Card, or foreign passport with an approved form I-94. You’ll also need to bring proof of your Social Security number, such as a Social Security Card, W-2, or paystub with your social security number. Be careful with paystubs though since many will hide your social security number for security reasons, so they won’t work. You’ll also need to provide proof of residency, such as a rental or lease agreement, mortgage statement, utility bill, or school document. I would actually bring two kinds of documents as some states, such as California, require multiple and different proofs of residency. Lastly, you’ll need to show any name change documentation if you’ve changed your name. This includes marriage certificates or divorce decrees. You’ll want to check with your local DMV to see if they have any additional requirements to get a REAL ID compliant driver’s license. As always, I also wanted to share some additional tips to keep in mind. 1. Check your state’s status: As I mentioned earlier with California, you’ll want to check your state’s status to find out your state’s REAL ID status. As of this video, eight states and territories are under extension, one is under review, and the rest are compliant. I’ll include a link to the DHS website chart in the video description. California residents, in particular, should probably keep an eye out for an update. 2. Real ID applies to domestic travel and federal facilities: Having a REAL ID will not only be a requirement for domestic air travel, but also for entering federal buildings, military bases, and nuclear power plants. On that note, 3. REAL ID does not replace a passport: While a REAL ID is required to board a domestic flight starting in October 2020, you’ll still need a passport to travel internationally. The REAL ID does not replace your passport. And while Passport Cards are considered REAL ID compliant, you still need a traditional passport book to travel internationally using air travel. If you want to learn more about Passport Cards, check out our video on the topic. Kids do not need a REAL ID: Children under 18 do not need to provide identification when traveling with an adult companion. The adult companion will obviously need to show their ID though. That being said, you’ll want to contact the airlines for any other specific guidelines or requirements. For example, some airlines require documentation on a child’s age before they can board a flight. 5. Enhanced drivers licenses are REAL ID compliant: To make things even more confusing, you might have an enhanced driver’s license but wonder if it’s REAL ID compliant since it doesn’t have a star marking or any disclaimer text. Rest assured -- enhanced driver’s licenses, which are only issued in a couple of states, are all REAL ID compliant. In case you’re wondering what they are, they’re similar to Passport Cards and can prove US citizenship. 6. REAL ID State Identification cards are also available: You might be asking, “What do I do if I don’t even have a driver’s license?” If you don’t drive, then an option might be to get a state ID from your DMV. These often resemble a driver’s license, but are meant to serve strictly as a State ID. You should be able to get one that is REAL ID compliant by following the same process and providing the same set of documentation. As you can tell, I don’t think that the rollout and preparation for REAL ID has been very smooth. It wasn’t until I researched this video that I even understood when things are scheduled to change. Since my driver’s license expires in 2020, I’ll probably opt to get the REAL ID version. Though it’s nice knowing that I’ll still covered by some of my other IDs like my passport and Global Entry card. Have you had to get a new license in order to be REAL ID compliant? Has the process been confusing to you as well? Please share your experience in the comment section below. Hope you enjoyed this video and found it useful. If so, please give us a thumbs up and consider sharing the video with others. It really helps us to grow the channel and our community. Until next time, travel safe and travel smart. 