 Trying seafood is one of the musts in Quy Nhon I came to this restaurant before but since the food is so good, I decide to come again to introduce to you Today, we'll have delicious dishes like abalone, spanner crab, slipper lobster, and Quy Nhon signature dish: dancing shrimp pancake Look how big these sweet snails are - Is this Slipper lobster? - Yes it is - Can I touch it?  - Of course - An is this the spanner crab?  - Yes, that's it - It looks like a shrimp, can I touch it? - Yes you can - It's quite scary  - Actually, it's not aggressive as normal crabs - Is this the biggest one?  - No, that's just a medium one It's like half shrimp and half crab This crab only lives in certain areas, in Vietnam, they can be found from Phan Thiet to here - Only from Phan Thiet to Quy Nhon? - And Quang Ngai as well - Oh, so they can be found from Phan Thiet to Quang Ngai - So, how is it cooked? - Normally, it is steamed This is Sea-grapes salad Do not mix up the salad, it will destroy the sea-grapes, just pick them up and put in your mouth There's an avocado in this salad This dish is really healthy, there's no meat in it I chose this dish as my appetizer because it's healthy Sea-grapes and avocado are really good for our health That's why I asked them not to put any meat in here You can ask to have this salad with some beef But I prefer it like this and save room for other dishes Here are some boiled sweet potatoes - I didn't order this - It's on the house - She's so nice! Let's have some L-sized sweet snails I like big snails like this, it's like 10 times bigger than regular ones and that will save us some time of removing them from their shells Look how tasty it is I'll dip it into this ginger fish sauce There are 3 types of sauce on the table, lemon chili sauce, lemon and pepper sauce, and this ginger fish sauce It's really good! Despite their enormous size, their meat is still sweet, tender and firm I must ask for the price of these snails In Saigon, big sweet snails like these are really expensive Let's see how much they cost in Quy Nhon And this is the price, the big ones like these are 750,000 VND/kg The smaller ones are 600,000 VND/kg It's cheaper than restaurants in Saigon - This is grilled half dried cuttle fish, also on the house - Thank you so much! Look how lucky I am! They say we shouldn't waste the deepest part of this snail, but I don't find it tasty I like big snails like this, the small ones are not enough to satisfy me It's better to have a beer while enjoying this cuttle fish It's really sweet and delicious This is the spanner crab - The color is not so different as we saw it earlier, right? - It's a little darker than when it's alive - I think most of the meat is on its head, right? - That's right The shell over there is really hard This must be an offspring of a crab and a lobster Its head is like a crab but the body is from a lobster, so strange Thank you! Looking good isn't it?! Let me dip it into this lemon chili sauce There's plenty of meat I think its meat is much firmer and sweeter than other crabs Let's have a closer look at its meat, I think it's like lobster meat, that's why I called it an offspring of lobster and crab The meat is firm, sweet and spongy And since the meat is really fresh and delicious like that, we only need to steam the crab and enjoy it with some sauce like me I love these translucent part, so tasty Here comes the next dish: Slipper lobster with butter & garlic Let's dip it into the ginger fish sauce I'm a lobster lover, I like any kind of lobster or shrimp This lobster only has the size of a Giant river prawn but its meat is as tasty as a huge lobster, really firm and spongy It's small but mighty You can try this instead of a big lobster, the taste is similar Last time, I have introduced the food in the city center, I'm now at Eo Gio, you can come to this restaurant when you're in this area The rice pancakes here have a light layer of rice-powder, we can clearly see the toppings like shrimps and sprouts but it's still crispy Do you know what this is? It's jellyfish Looks like jelly, doesn't it? I really love this dish, it's called jellyfish noodle or jellyfish hotpot As you can see there's a big pot with delicious soup here. The smell is appetizing, too. The ingredients of this soup are shrimp, crab-roe and pork This is how we have it We'll pick the ingredients from this beautifully organized tray, We'll have some jellyfish, some noodles but not too much, onions and other veggies, don't forget these fried onions Then we'll pour the soup into our bowl Unlike other hotpot, we don't dip anything into the soup, just put everything in a bowl and pour the hot soup in This is to keep the jellyfish fresh and spongy I like my bowl smoking like this I really love this dish, but how can I find it in Saigon? Maybe it's a reason to return to Quy Nhon, all just for a bowl of jellyfish like this This is a translucent piece of the jellyfish, and feels like it's melting in your mouth I think this dish is more delicious than Bun Rieu since it has all the ingredients of Bun Rieu but with some extra jellyfish All the total cost for my meal is 1,880,000 VND Let's see what I had 7 dishes: pancake, jelly-hotpot, salad, lobster, crab, and sweet snails which is 5% discounted I think the price is reasonable since I had the top 'fancies' seafoods, and all of them are really fresh I really love the decoration of this restaurant, it's comfortable We can freely use our bare hands which will be judged in fancy restaurants The food is well-seasoned as well I'm really happy about my discovery of this restaurant in my trip to Quy Nhon Let me know if you have any recommendation in the comment section Thank you for watching, see you in the next video 