 Hi, my name is Jenn Gale and I am the Interim Administrator and Director of Nursing at River Valley Surgery Center in Norwich, Connecticut. Before Passport Engage, we were asking the patients to call at 1:00 the day prior for their arrival time. At that time, we would have as many as 6 to 36 patients calling all at 1 PM, talking to one of our two front-desk staff members, where they would receive their time of arrival for the following day, as well as a page-long list of instructions - including NPO reminders, which medications to take, what to bring on their day of service, and many others. This was extremely time-consuming and it took away from the other responsibilities of the front desk staff. Many of our patients, because they're outpatient surgical patients, they are returning to work very often the following day. So, when we're trying to contact them at home, they are also out at work or at their follow-up appointments. So, we didn't really have a great method of contacting those patients. Since implementing Passport Engage, we still have the patients call at 1 PM the day prior, however they've already received all of those pre-op instructions, and that's reducing the amount of time that our front-desk staff is spending on the phone with those patients. so that they're not feeling that pressure. On a post-operative end, if we're unable to contact the patient by phone, we are able to send them messages either via text or email, just letting them know that we did try to contact them and we were not successful and that we are concerned for their comfort and recovery and if they have any questions, to call us at our facility number. The amount of time that it's saving is incredible! The nurses are not calling every patient to remind them. One of the biggest impacts that Passport Engage has had on our facility and patient satisfactions scores is related to the patients' response to the financial arrangements that were discussed prior to my visit. The patients were reporting that they did not feel like we gave them clear expectations before they came in and maybe their responsibility was a little vague. We continue to contact the patients by phone, but then we send them a follow-up sort of summarizing the conversation that we've had and outlining their responsibilities. We also send a general message to every patient, letting them know that if they have any questions at all about their financial obligations, whether or not they have any, to please call us so we can clear that up for them. This is something that I would do over and over again without hesitation! 