 After having made my first trip in times of pandemic... What do I think about travel? When and how do I think we will travel again? If this is the first time you see one of my videos, I am Mariel De Viaje, journalist specialized in travel and travel blogger. Throughout these weeks I have launched a series of reports entitled: "Travel in times of COVID-19", which today comes to an end. I invite you to subscribe to the channel, give it a like and activate the notification bell. Let's start! THE CORONAVIRUS STOPPED THE ENTIRE WORLD TOURISM WENT INTO CRISIS ALL IN QUARANTINE THE TOURISM INDUSTRY CHANGED WHAT WILL IT BE LIKE TO TRAVEL IN THIS NEW NORMAL? HOTELS - PLANES - AIRPORTS Travel in times of COVID-19 A Mariel De Viaje Chronicle After being confined for more than 100 days due to the health crisis, I decided to travel to record a series of videos titled: Travel in times of COVID-19 that allowed me to inform you what happened in the first stage of tourist reactivation in Mexico. When I started my first trip in the middle of the health crisis I knew what it felt like to get on a fully packed plane, in which I was even a passenger who was in the middle seat. Also what it felt like getting on an emptier plane. On the other hand, I asked for permissions to be able to record what are the biosecurity protocols of some sites or providers of tourist services in general, such as hotels. Interview people involved with tourism. I had the opportunity to be present in the first stage of tourist reactivation from one of the most important destinations in Mexico. And this allowed me to open my perspective and know a little more about what is happening out there in terms of travel and tourism.     And after this experience, what are my conclusions? On the one hand I see in Mexico a very dedicated, committed tourism industry and making every effort to make travelers and tourists feel safe, and feel comfortable. I even see a very unified industry, which is trying to make multiples strategies of discounts, investment in terms of health, technology... And what they are looking for the most is precisely for people to have and to regain this trust despite the situation we are experiencing. But I also see on the other hand that in order not to affect the tourist, for example, in the Mexican Caribbean, I did not see that in hotels or in many places, they not made the use of the mouth cover mandatory, at least in the places that I visit. The staff of the places, the employees are very dedicated to doing it but as long as it does not affect the service, as long as it does not bother the guests, or the people who visit them, they try to touch this topic very carefully and to suggest, and to highly recommend the use of the mouth cover, but not to implement it as a mandatory measure, and I see this as completely necessary. We know that if you take care of yourself, the probability of contagion is much lower.     As I said, most tourism service providers are implementing biosecurity protocols. All the cleaning is done, the whole process is done with special equipment and a special suit, the staff apply it. But these are useless if people are irresponsible. I had to see very committed travelers, concerned about the situation and aware. Not everyone is becoming aware of what is happening. Making use of mouth covers, others even masks and being careful to keep social distance. But on the other hand, I also had to see people who are denied and reluctant to follow the rules, as you saw in one of my videos... When descending or ascending from a plane people continue to get up at the wrong time, piling up and committing some actions that don't allow these protocols can be fully met. It is very important that we ask ourselves this question, and that you answer it yourself. Are we up to the task? Are we up to what is happening? Can we abide by the rules or not? Remember that if you as a traveler are responsible and take care of yourself, you are not only taking care of yourself, but also of your family and the person next to you, to the people you may meet on the way. So the best we can do is raise awareness. I have always spoken about the importance of following the directions given by the sanitary authorities and by the governments of each of the sites we will visit. In Mexico unfortunately we receive very cross information, which complicates things a bit and does not allow us to form a criterion or make a decision. So much so that each of the states and municipalities have their own restrictions and rules, From the yellow traffic light we go to 70% and that is when also the beaches of Cancun, Cancun's public beaches will be open. What I recommend is that the sites you are going to visit check the epidemiological traffic lights, what color is each of the traffic lights... Remember that this depends entirely on the health situation of the place. If you have doubts about how an epidemiological traffic light works, check my previous videos to get an idea of this. On the one hand, you can find out about the health situation of the places you are going to visit and on the other hand, also by watching this series of videos that I made you can have a notion of what you are going to face if you visit mainly the Mexican Caribbean.     Without travelers there is simply no tourist revival. This could not be achieved. Although we are facing a health crisis, which is at very critical levels, we are also facing a very complex economic crisis. The only measure we could do was sell everything we had. I had the opportunity to interview different providers of tourist services, such as Mario, a boatman that has been operating for many years in Cancun who told me that he is earning 80 MXN every day. We give low budget prices... We are people from here, regional people who simply want to work. I can't close my eyes to this situation and think that Mario can dedicate himself to anything else, and that somehow he has to get ahead because you have to know that there are people who are dedicated to the tourism sector for many years, for generations, that their circumstances are very different and that it is not that simple. At the end of the day I think there must be a balance between the situation we are experiencing, the complex health situation we are facing, and the economic situation that we must reactivate in some way.     In Mexico there is no law that prohibits travel, there are no restrictions. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the borders are open, I mean, people can enter and exit. For foreigners there is also no restriction or mandatory quarantine. Because of this, travel in and out of Mexico depends on a decision and of a completely personal criterion. Regarding international travel, you must find the necessary information that allows you to see what are the policies of the country to which you are going to travel, what are the restrictions and what is required of you. Regarding, for example, the PCR test, the mandatory quarantine imposed by some countries, among others. To date, the European Union has published a list of countries that you can enter in Europe and others that you definitely cannot. So you have to be very informed, that's the word. It is vital that if you have already decided to travel you carry sanitary articles, antibacterial gel is extremely important and it is allowed to be carried in your hand luggage, of course, remember not to exceed 100 milliliters. On the other hand, the mouth cover recommended by the World Health Organization is KN95. What happens with this mouth cover? That being disposable many people do not have the possibility to buy so many mouth covers because they are interchangeable for so many days of travel. In addition, the cost of each cover can exceed 150 MXN. By the way, if you are going to buy it, it is very important that you do it in authorized stores. So the suggestion is that at least for transfers, use this mouth cover, already on your trip you can make use of the one you usually use. There are some people who use masks and it is completely allowed that if you are going to fly in an airplane make use of the masks... But, beware, these do not replace a mouth cover. In my case, I use a mouth cover and glasses that protect me, this is a personal choice. I also recommend carrying a sublingual thermometer on hand. What I did was that I put all my anti-COVID kit in a fanny pack because this way I could have it at hand. On the other hand, make use of technology, bring your ticket or boarding pass digitally, and in case you can carry little luggage, I suggest that you only carry your hand luggage and avoid documenting, only if you can. If you are going to take a plane trip, during the transfer be very aware of everything you are going to touch, only for the travel time, I am not telling you that throughout the trip you are counting the surfaces that you are going to touch, but at least on the way I recommend it. We remind you that the use of the mouth cover is essential during the flight. Do not take off the mouth cover, do not put it under your nose, it is important, I reiterate, to follow the directions.     In these moments more than ever I see completely necessary, that you take out travel insurance, that has full coverage so that you can stay calm. Remember that when traveling, being responsible travelers not only does it imply that you make use of tools and health preventive measures but also go prepared. For this I highly recommend that you have travel assistance, or insurance. If you don't know which insurance to choose, I invite you to go to www.Marieldeviaje.com so you can see the recommendations that I make and also click here on this little button so you can see what my opinion is regarding travelers insurance. At the beginning of this video I opened the question: "How and when we will travel again?" And this question has two answers. The first, which is the practical response based on official government information, that tells us that it is not illegal and that traveling is not prohibited, nor are there restrictions on doing so. There is an epidemiological traffic light that sets certain guidelines for us. If the traffic light is red it indicates that you should not leave the house unless it is strictly necessary. If it's in orange, they suggest that you stay home if you can. In yellow you can do certain activities but taking precautions. And in green that you can go out with caution and prevention. This information is according to the coronavirus.gov.mx page of the Mexican government. In other words, outside of the red light, it is up to us to respond responsibly to our needs. The second answer to this question of how and when we are going to travel again... It's based on the criteria that each person has formed based on the difficult situation that we are facing in this health crisis. But not only that, also based on their life circumstances, at the moment they are happening, not only physically but even mentally. That is why I took on the task of interviewing many of you, to travelers who allowed me to know a little more about their opinions. I feel that right now trips for pleasure should be abstained. I traveled, I went to Acapulco... I did not want to give this answer based solely on my opinion and in the travel experience that I had. So I heard what you had to say... I have already made two business trips, obviously. And I knew what is behind each of the people who, or already decided to travel, or they are undefined. Even in www.MarielDeViaje.com we did a survey that allowed us to know what was your criteria of travel in times of pandemic, of course. And 47% of travelers responded that they strongly disagree with traveling right now. 41% said they want to travel in 2020, but are undecided. 10% responded that they have already traveled and would do it again because it went very well. And 2% assured that they have already traveled, but that it did not go well. Thanks to this, I was able to broaden my perspective and in addition to this I interviewed specialists. Traveling for many people today is a necessity to maintain their health. Currently there are three types of crisis: health, economic and emotional. You will see this in a future video and I am sure you will possibly identify with some type of traveler that I interviewed, because I spoke with travelers parents... We have three children, they lent us a little house in the country. With business travelers, with some other people who strongly disagree with traveling. It seems to me that it is not the most appropriate time to travel for pleasure. And with some others who are indecisive. Even with people who are completely dependent on the tourist. COVID does not give up. Infections have already reached more than 18 million worldwide. In Mexico there are more than 450.000 cases and more than 48.000 deaths And in the meantime, what about tourism? This represents 10.5% of world GDP. Spain and Mexico are the most dependent on this sector, therefore, it was essential to reactivate the industry. 10% of jobs in Mexico are generated by tourism. 47% of countries have opened their borders. Hotel occupancy in Mexico ranges up to 30%. It is estimated that 8 out of 10 tourists are nationals. Global traffic will rebound in 2024. In 2021 the airlines will operate at 75%. The European Union restricted international mobility. Currently in the world there are various sanitary rules. Despite this, the outlook is not optimistic. In Mexico, 9 destinations have the global security seal, but so far nothing is 100% certain. Given this, what are the implications of the new normal? And how long can we wait? We will resist uncertainty, how long? When, how, where, why? Finally I would like to answer a question that I have been asked lately. If the style of my videos are going to change, because there are people who miss the old style, but there are other people who found this to be a very good style. The answer is no. Mariel's travel style will not change, the truth is that the videos I make have always stood out for having a very light style where I show myself as I am. I saw the need for these videos to learn more about my journalistic side, because I think it's very important that right now people don't get confused and realize that my intention was to inform and that you know what is happening in terms of travel and mainly in this first stage of tourist reactivation in the Mexican Caribbean, but as you already know, I love to motivate and inspire you... And, of course, when the moment is right the style, the "mijitos", will continue to be very present because this is the essence of Mariel De Viaje since it was born. So yeah, I'll keep doing some journalistic work because the truth is that I liked it a lot and I liked that you know me in this facet, but Mariel De Viaje will remain as always. I would also like to clarify that soon I will continue making trips, the closest is to the north of Mexico, and this is to continue fulfilling my role as a travel journalist and travel blogger. I mean, it is a work trip. I can only thank you for watching the series of travel in times of COVID-19 that officially comes to an end today. Although I am going to upload another video, as I already said, about the interviews I did with travelers, officially this is the last video in the series. So really thank you for your comments, for your likes, for sharing it. It was very satisfying for me to read you and to know that most of you loved it. See you in an upcoming video. I invite you to subscribe to the channel, give it a thumbs up and activate the notification bell. Goodbye! 