 [Rosemary Barton] You've likely seen more and more masks on people out in public. And you've probably also heard the growing debate. Should we all wear them or not? For months, Dr. Theresa Tam insisted the answer was no. Putting a mask on a asymptomatic person is not beneficial. Obviously, if you're not infected. [Rosemary] Saying they didn't work and they might even be counterproductive. But as countries in Asia, Europe even the United States recommended even ordered masks to stop the spread of COVID-19 those mixed messages had Canadians question whether wearing something was better than nothing. And the public health advice changed. Wearing a non-medical mask, even if you have no symptoms is an additional measure that you can take to protect others around you. Can you explain why you're thinking on that changed and why now that the suggestion is if you can't get as far apart as you and I are right now maybe wear a mask in a grocery store, on public transit? I think what came online was actually more evidence that asymptomatic people there's more of them than we knew of before. We didn't know how efficiently spread but that's still evolving knowledge and you kind of think, OK but well it's another layer of protection and then what is the downside? I've always said that there's a lot of unknowns to an evolving situation and that I think is a very reasonable in a way to change advice as we know more which is always a very difficult thing for maybe the public to understand. But we've got to do it. And there may be yet another change in our recommendations. Do you think as as public health restrictions ease one day. Do you foresee mask-wearing to be part of what Canadians will be asked to do more regularly in order to make sure we are all safe? I think that's already undergoing evolution. Transport Canada has required now facial coverings because it's very difficult on a plane to separate yourself and all the traffic going in and out. And so you're already seeing those policy shifts. And provinces in their plans for reopening have this as part of the options for when you can't do the two metres. So the new normal when we get there is one that is not the same as before the new year. It's one that might see our society function in different ways and how we actually maintain some sort of physical distance at the same time as certain businesses begin to open and workplaces re-adjust to the new normal I think it will have some profound changes in society including maybe our acceptance of people wearing masks. 