  -What does the journey to your best health look like? Well, it's no quick day trip, it's literally the trip of a lifetime -- your lifetime. But instead of a passport and luggage, what you need is a plan made just for you. That's where Aetna comes in -- we're here for every step along your journey to your best health at a lower cost. We get it, health plans can be overwhelming and confusing. But once you're an Aetna member, the next step is simple. Get 24/7 access to what you need through your member website and the Aetna Health app. Most doctors and hospitals are in our network, so it's easy to connect to care. Get the whole picture by comparing cost estimates for visits and procedures. Know before you go, including what you'll pay out of pocket. And track progress toward meeting your deductible. As you travel your path to better health, we'll help you stress less and save more. Can't find your ID card? Just pull it up on your phone when you get to your appointment. Manage your plan and coverage, even view up to two years of claims from anywhere. Have a burning health question keeping you up at night? You can reach an Aetna Informed Health Line any time. Step into savings with discounts on health-related products and services, from gym memberships to acupuncture -- get the point? And Member Services is a call away with any answers you need. The number's on the back of your ID card, or ask your employer for contact info. On your health journey, you won't have to travel far for care you need. Step into a nearby MinuteClinic, available every day, including evenings and weekends. You'll find care for everyday needs, including minor illnesses and injuries, immunizations, and more. And watch for new CVS HealthHUB locations opening nation-wide, with expanded products and MinuteClinic services to help with chronic conditions. There's even a Care Concierge who can help guide you to all the resources CVS HealthHUB locations have to offer. Remember, the journey to your best health begins with a single step, when you enroll with Aetna. Take your next step -- enroll today.    