 Hi everyone! I'm so excited about another episode of our series and today, it's a special treat even for me when I found out who our guest was gonna be I was really excited! I want to welcome Christine, so hi Christine! How's everything going? Hi everyone as you heard I'm Christine. I'm from Jamaica but I'm currently living in Parker, Colorado. It's been a good three years experience for me and I'm loving it so far. Great, well we're so excited to have you onboard. The whole purpose of this series is to be an inspiration to any healthcare professional out there that's about to start their journey, in the middle of their journey, or as they're on their journey. So, we get to hear from successful RN's like yourself, and I can't wait for them, the audience really, to hear more about you. So Christine, tell us a little bit about why you wanted to come to the US. So, I wanted to come to the US to experience what Nursing was like outside of the Caribbean. I wanted to experience better job satisfaction, environment, remuneration, I wanted a better quality of life for my family. Not only that, I wanted to explore and learn more about the nursing profession. So what have you found in your exploration that is different? So for me the biggest difference was the use of technology to enhance care. Having the ability to use technology to enhance practice was a big educational gain for me. I was able to grow and expand more on my nursing knowledge and skills and not only that, I realized I know I have access to endless opportunities to venture into the nursing field at my choosing without all the limitations that I would have back home. Well thanks for sharing that. That is so exciting to hear that you're pursuing your dream and there aren't limitations to that. It would really help some of our audience to understand what some of those limitations were that you experienced to give them a picture of what that means or what that look like for you. Can you share a little bit more about that? So not having adequate resources to provide the adequate patient care that you would want for your patient. I'm not being able to choose the career field freely of your choosing because back home it was up to the management or the leadership to decide which area was best fit for you. Being here in the US I'm now able to go through the different fields. I can select a match choosen and explore and venture more into something that I truly wanted to do. That's so great, so just so that our audience can picture this and you can correct me if I'm wrong, but in Jamaica you have to rotate every six months to various specialties. Most times that's the case, the good thing about that is that you get to experience different fields so you become more rounded in the nursing profession but there comes a time when you really find that area that you think, this is where I belong and at times you try to get into that area and you're told no this is not the area for you, or it's not your time. So that was kind of a setback and that makes you feel limited because you're not able to progress as how you would want you to accomplish your dream. So now that you're here, what are you passionate about, so what's that specialty that you're passionate about I'm so curious. So I'm in critical care nursing, I'm very passionate about that area and come in here and learn to use modern technology to enhance patient care and that for me was a great accomplishment. I'm able to give more to my patient, and to provide the best care that I know how to do. Wow, that's you sound passionate about critical care! In Jamaica were you in critical care, were you with another area? I was in critical care but I did not have all these equipment that I now work with. So can you give us an example of some of the equipment that you're using right now that gets you excited? So I'm able to properly monitor my A-lines using telemonitors and either to do CVP monitoring using different systems to measure my pressure without having to invent or using my initiative to put together things in order to get that reading. I'm also able to assist my patient through direct support with the ventilators. I now know more about using that special equipment so I'm better able to help with the RT's to provide better care for them. I'm also able to view my imaging so my patient went to do a scan it's an X-ray and CT I can pull up that on my computer as we use electronic health record in system, so I can also view my report instantly once it's ready so I can be able to approach with better care to facilitate quicker healing process for my patient. I'm now able to also cite my IV accesses, back home unless you're in a specialized area you aren't given that opportunity. So now I'm able to draw my labs to perform my testing, to be able to read them so I can get back to the doctor to get prompt intervention to properly care for my patient. Wow, how does it make you feel now that you have all of these equipment all these tools to really operate as a nurse to the level that you want. How does that feel? It makes you feel fully rounded. Being in critical care you are exposed to a variety of knowledge so having things to enhance that knowledge makes you see it more equipped knowing that you're providing the best possible care you can to that patient and then you have the desire to learn more so you keep pushing yourself when there are new things they bring in to try. You're ready to try because you want to get that knowledge so you can properly care for your patient. Well this is so it's so exciting to hear the passion that you have for nursing and the enhancements that you've received and I can only imagine how difficult that transition was for you from Jamaica and the hospital systems that you're used to and the protocols that you're used to there to come in here to the US and now as you mentioned, more opportunities. What helped you bridge that gap to be able to work as a nurse here in the US successfully? I think family support is a big thing my husband is here with me, they're supportive and also initially I was a bit nervous in starting this process, but Avant had promised that there will be my ongoing support, they have numerous resources that I can draw from, and they have been and they have delivered so I'm now feeling confident but I'm able to progress more in this field because of the baseline support that I had received in coming into this country. That's so great. Well you know, what what are the things that stuck out to you in the Avant program that really helped you. What are some of those things that you mentioned. The transitional program was a big thing for me. I mean I wasn't familiar with the US dollars, especially the clients that was a big thing for me. Budgeting was not something normally do, so that I know I had to do this. so I went and got it done. But going through the transitional program we were walked through budgeting, we were walked through the different money US dollars we have to deal with. Got our bank account set up, that was good for me too and just expose us to the culture here. We've learned them rocking getting that exposure, I started to formulate things in my mind, I can do this I will do this. That transitional program was a big support. At the end of it I felt that I was ready to go out there and do what I have to. That's so great, well I'm so glad that you felt that support that really is our the goal and the goal of that transitions program is to really bridge the gap, culturally and clinically. And I must say right the clinical was awesome. How is it awesome? So there, as I said, the practice in Jamaica is limited but coming here and having all this equipment to work with, having that Clinical Instructor walking you through, guiding you, you don't feel fearful, They have a welcoming nature to them so you're willing to put out the effort to learn. They teach you all these things so when I go out there. We had an experience where we go in the field to shadow, so I was able to put one and two together and say, okay, this is what I learned in clinical. Cause me going into my practice area in Colorado I was able to function like the RN's that were there without feeling fear that I might do something wrong. That is so great, I am so glad that you had confidence and that our team supported you through that and here you are today doing an incredible job on assignment and we're so excited about that! So, you know when I hear you I think about my own experience because I'm actually from the Philippines and I moved to the US and I went through the green card process, and I like to look back and try and help people when they're making that move get prepared, and so what's something that you wish someone told you back then when you are in the US process, and what do you want to tell others that are in the process now? So I wish they had told me that the initial phase was just a preparation to greater things to come. Those that are in the processing that initially it might seem tedious or nerve-racking, but gradually after settling down you will realize that it was just a preparation to the start of greater beginnings, of greater things to come towards working to accomplish your American Dream. I agree with that - that was my experience and it's amazing when I look back how grateful I am for the journey. It's not always easy, but especially in the beginning but being here now and experiencing the US and the opportunities that have been presented to me I feel so grateful for that journey. What are you most thankful for now that you've moved to the US? So I'm most thankful for the opportunities that I got to excel in the nursing profession. Opportunities that I thought were beyond my reach in my home country, I'm now able to explore, to build on my nursing knowledge and skills, to gain initiatives and insights into using modern technology and research to enhance quality of care and outcome. I'm also big on patient satisfaction. Being here, a part of the US I'm now able to become more fully rounded so I'm able to provide the best possible care to those who I serve. Nursing seems to be your passion. Why did you get into it, like, what made you get into nursing? So I wouldn't say it was a childhood dream, I lost my parents at an early age and sitting back, unable to help them, just watching them go. Being around the nurses in the hospital I then realized I wanted to give back something in honor of my parents So I decided this was the field that I could venture in. Wow That's amazing, that's so touching and I'm sure they're honored by the memory that you're bringing through because, it's because of that experience with them that you're a nurse today and you're making an impact on the lives of so many patients and I think one day you'll realize how big of an impact that is but I want to say thank you, thank you for your passion, thank you for all of your hard work, and on behalf of our patients, on behalf of the staff here too we just want to thank you. It's so refreshing to talk to nurses like you that care so much about providing patients with the best care that are hungry to learn more and develop. It's not a, it's not something that we take lightly. You are an inspiration and that is evidence and in your life. So thank you for that. So what's next for you? You know, what is what are you hoping to accomplish next? So I've been here for three years I started accomplishing some amazing things on my checklist, purchase a home, and now a board certified critical care registered nurse in the states. And I'm pursuing my master's degree in the field of family nurse Practice with the hope bridge into a doctoral program for Health and Human Sciences. Oh my goodness, that's amazing! Everything just move at a fast pace because you're not limited, you move how fast that you wish to accomplish those dreams. So open endless possibilities that I'm grateful for. That's amazing! Well you are an inspiration to so many out there and if you have that thought of being limited, Christine is a great example to all of us that when you work hard and you go after your dreams and you have a great support system with family and a partner such as Avant to help you get there, Sky's the limit! What an encouraging story. When you look back or when you think maybe if you think about it today, did you think that you would be at this place where you're pursuing your masters, and board-certified, and I mean was this ever in your thought process? it wasn't! I was so fearful to take that step and if it wasn't for fear of the unknown then I would have started the process in sooner. But taking that step, experiencing that transitional program, exposure to the ongoing support from Avant, and the numerous resources, I knew then that fear was momentary. Avant promised they would be there for me and they have delivered. Right, and that's so true. Fear can really paralyze someone and especially when they're, the fear of the unknown, and when you were talking one of the things that have came to mind was that we get this phrase a lot. Is Avant real? What would you say to somebody that asks you that question? Avant is real, I didn't know at first out of all the agencies that I heard about I was a bit iffy and then I started hearing about Avant and all the positive feedbacks that I heard from my colleagues who are already in the US, those who are going through the processing and I found that this was a good company. When I started the application process, the NCLEX preparation, it seems seamless processing went through quickly and I was so impressed with the Recruiter that presented in my home country. And you said that this was an agency that I want to associate myself with. I believed that we shared similar mission and vision, and I was confident that Avant was able to help me accomplish my American Dream. We do, Christine we have the same mission and vision and you are a great representation of our company. The fact that our mission is to change lives and you are doing that every day and you are also impacting your family tree. It's amazing and really encouraging - it's an encouragement to anybody that's out there that wants to pursue their US process, so we we want to encourage you and I hope that hearing Christine's story today has been an inspiration for you and whatever part of the journey you're on. She is an example that nothing's  impossible. It's possible to reach your goals and your dreams and even go above what you thought that you could accomplish and you need the right partner to do that and Avant healthcare wants to be that partner for you. So Christine, any final words to any of those health care professionals out there in any stage of the process. What would you like to share with them? I would say to you don't be fearful to expand your horizons there are endless possibilities in the US, you can as nurses we have the resources, we have the ability to expand and advance our nursing knowledge and skills. Do not limit yourself, do not stop major potential and growth through fear. You can take control of your future. Avant is ready, they're equipped, and they're able to provide ongoing support and resources that you need to accomplish your American dream. So, step out and explore. Explore and achieve your dreams with the Avant team. Thank you so much Christine, it's been a really inspiring. I'm inspired hearing you and being part of this interview with you today and we really want to thank you on behalf of the whole company for working so hard and we're cheering you on for the next journey with your nursing career. We know you're somebody, you're already somebody and I can't wait to hear years from now and see who you become. So thank you everybody for watching us today I hope you've been inspired just like I have by Christine story and there'll be many more health care professionals on their journeys that you can get to talk to through Facebook, or you know call a Recruiter today at Avant to find out a little bit about how you can begin your journey, how you can qualify, we'd love to support you. We want to help change your life and really we want to help change the lives of our hospitals and our clients and our patients. Thanks again so much for joining us today, can't wait. Christine thank you so much! You're welcome, any time for Avant, the best possible agent that I came across. Ya'll have a good night, evening or afternoon whatever side of the world you find yourself in. Bye now! 