 [TV Host] You can win the weight loss battle with a skinny plate. [Reporter] The skinny plate. A plastic dish designed to help limit portion sizes. The person behind this product also owns the company that landed the single largest government contract to supply personal protective equipment. Proline Advantage had no experience with PPE procurement prior to the pandemic but it got 371 million dollars mainly to supply medical gowns to Health Canada. [Mike Caron] Looking great starts with your plate. [Reporter] Businessman Mike Caron owns Proline Advantage. Company headquarters is a home in suburban Ottawa. In a statement to CBC News Caron says his company is experienced in supply chain management "...and was able to quickly pivot our business and leverage our international sourcing expertise to answer the government's call." The contract has been filled and the government is happy with the outcome. Others also answered that call. The second largest contract went to a company headquartered in a house in Calgary. 300 million dollars to move factor limited. Another company with seemingly no experience in PPE. There's been a lot of opportunistic organizations, distributors that don't have any experience in procuring healthcare PPE and equipment that have kind of popped up. [Reporter] Not surprising say some given the urgent need for PPE at the start of the pandemic. This is akin to a war footing here given the severity of the event. [Reporter] Edmonton's PRIMED Medical products has been in the PPE business for 25 years. There were literally tens of thousands of new entrants into our market. CEO David Welsh says the government did a good job securing enormous amounts of PPE. At the same time... [David Welsh] It was the wild west. Decisions had to be made much more quickly than than normal and the level of due diligence had to be shortened. [Ad] And then what do you do next? You just pull it off. [Reporter] The pandemic leading to some extraordinary business opportunities for some brand new players in the market. Aaron Saltzman, CBC News, Toronto 