 (gentle music) - My name is Terri. I lost both of my parents to COVID-19 within 30 hours of each other. At the end, they entered heaven together. What more could you ask for as a daughter? (dramatic music) - Terri joins us now. Terri, welcome to the show. - Thank you. - First Terri, let me just say how bad I feel for not just your loss, but what you've been through. I mean, this is not easy. How are you holding up now? - Each day gets a little better. Some days I'm fine and other days I'm emotional and sad. The worst part is you can't escape COVID. It's everywhere and is a constant reminder of how my parents died. - How does it feel when you think back and realize that we knew about COVID and the dangers of COVID way back earlier in the year and so many people disregarded the medical advice, the scientific information about how to prevent the transmission and then you lose your parents to something that was completely preventable in every sense of the word? How does that make you feel? - You know, it's just, it's frustrating. I personally think that people have just dug their heels in one way or the other. Either on one hand, you truly believe in the horrors of COVID-19. And on the other hand, you think it is a hoax. So once somebody has made the decision, they seem to not be backing down from that decision. And by digging in their heels even as new information comes out about the virus, there's just no way almost unless you live the horror that you're going to change your opinion on it. - You know what's also interesting and very sad about your story is not only do you lose both of your parents within 30 hours of each other and you're watching them on a computer screen, but you also posted a picture, one that you would think would evoke empathy, your parents in bed holding hands, the last touch that they have together and instead of people being empathetic and understanding and wishing you well, you had some really ugly responses. Take me through that. - The majority of the comments were very, very kind, but there's some comments that were very, very cruel. The one comment that just really got under my skin and I realized that we're just almost losing it as a country is the person who said pretty sure they died with the kung flu and not from the kung flu. 