 Yesterday, the U.S. government no longer conducts COVID-19 screenings of arriving international travelers, due to quote-unquote, limited effectiveness for identifying infected travelers. This is  according to the CDC. The screenings have been in effect since January across 15 select airports including New York's John F Kennedy, LAX and right here at Dulles International Airport. Temperature checks, health questionnaires were all administered by government officials to incoming international travelers. So now that these screenings are over, does that mean it's any more safe to travel or what precautions do we need to know before we book our next flight. For more details, the director of Infectious Diseases at MedStar Washington Hospital Center, Dr.  Glenn Wortmann joins us this morning. Good morning doctor. good morning. Before we get into any specifics, just you know as a whole, traveling now compared to perhaps traveling in March, April, May. Are we safer now than we were before? I think it depends where you are in the country. If you're traveling you need to look at where you're going, look at the rate of COVID in that area and then make some decisions based on that destination. And when you base that, or are you basing that on the number of people that are on the airplane with you or yeah, I'm trying to figure out where you might be more susceptible to getting sick. Yeah, airports are definitely a concern because there's a large number of people mingling together, but if you wear your mask and you socially distance and you wash your hands, generally, it's going to be safe. If you have a serious underlying medical condition, you may want to travel differently than an airplane. All right, let's talk about some of the the changes that have been made recently. And we just mentioned it, uh, you know the the federal government now saying that you can fly internationally into more airports than you have been able to throughout the summer. They said that this the screening that they did showed a very little very low number of people who actually had tested positive who would have been impacted. Is this a good move? Is it a non-factor? How do you characterize this?  I think it's a good move. I think they just recognized that many people with COVID have no symptoms. And so it wasn't worth doing that screening because people can be asymptomatic and have COVID. So funneling people through those airports to get screened just wasn't worth the time and effort put into it. So, is there a safe way or an effective way to screen passengers or at this point are we just trusting people that they're behaving properly and if they're sick they're not traveling? Well i think the general message is that COVID is out there, it's widespread and so everybody has to assume that some of your neighbors are carrying COVID and that's why we all need to wear masks and socially distance because there is no screening test it's 100 effective to say whether this person's carrying it and that person's not. All right doctor let me ask you about some of these vaccines because we've had different stories pop up in recent days about what may be effective where we are in these trials setbacks and trials um you know now we're hearing uh from people in other nations saying, hey it might be years before we have something that's universal and effective. Uh what are you hearing through your medical connections as to where we stand now? Um so first of all it's been an amazing advancement that we even have vaccine candidates within nine months of discovering this this virus. So that's the good news but it does take a long time to develop a safe vaccine. We have 20 plus vaccine candidates which is amazing but they need to go through the correct testing. I don't know when that's going to be ready. But I'm optimistic that we may have something within the next year. I know that initially there was a rush to get something done by the end of the year. Uh, maybe uh by the spring to try to, you know, ease the the concern the rising numbers with the pandemic at the time. The President has said that he would love to see one out before Election Day. If something comes out that soon, is it effective or do you run the risk of of just essentially, for lack of a better term rushing it to get it out and not necessarily having it be effective. The biggest the first thing is safety. They just have to make sure the vaccine is safe. That's that's the most important thing and make sure it goes to the appropriate testing before you give it to large numbers of people. So safety is number one. And is that something that you feel could be done by the end of this calendar year? Yeah, it depends on how quickly they enroll the patients the volunteers into the studies. I don't have on the ground visibility on that. But if they're able to enroll large numbers of patients and prove it safe, then they could go on with it. You know it's interesting this year because we haven't had a deal with COVID before but we've certainly dealt with a seasonal flu for years and years and years. Do you think that if we do have a vaccine, say for example, by the end of the year or early in 2021. Do you think a significant number of people will accept that we'll take that vaccine would it be comparable to who normally would get a flu vaccine.  Hopefully it's more than flu vaccine. We always have some difficulty getting everybody to get the flu vaccine. For this, we'd want to have everybody go out and get it. That would be the the goal is to get a large percentage of the patient of the population vaccinated and protected.  Well, we appreciate you joining us this morning, thank you so much for your time 