 This is how to register for a TOEFL iBT test on the TOEFL website. You can also register using the TOEFL official app, which is available free on the App Store and Google Play. Once you have your ETS account, sign in with your username and password, and click "Register." Enter your preferred testing location, choose the 2-month period when you would like to take the test -and then click "Find Test Centers and Dates." You may select any date from the calendar that shows available seats. Choose a location, and then select "Show Test Times and Register" for that location. When you find a time that suits you, click "Register." The next page has information you should know before you complete your registration. It also provides a link to request accommodations if you have a disability. Review the information in the Acknowledgement section, check the box, and click "Next." Fill out your ID information. Make sure to use an ID that is valid for the location where you are testing. Then click "Next." The next page displays the personal information you entered when you created your account. If your contact information has changed, you can update it. The background information page also shows information from your account, which you can update here. On the Free Score Recipients page, you can choose up to 4 institutions to receive your test scores as part of the test fee. Use the search box, and when you find the institution you're looking for, choose "Add to My Score Recipients." Continue adding score recipients up to the maximum number. Then, choose how you would like to receive your own score report, and click "Next." Review your registration date, time and location and your score recipients. Then you can shop for official Test Prep to help you get ready for the test. Review your shopping cart and proceed to checkout. Enter any Promotion or Voucher codes you may have, agree to the terms and conditions, and choose "Pay Now." Select your payment method and currency from the available options. Enter the required payment information- and then click "Buy." Once your payment is verified, you will receive a confirmation email with your test information. That's it! You can return to your account home page anytime to see your upcoming test dates, access test prep, view your scores and order score reports. Good luck on your TOEFL test! The test that helps you stand out. 