 Hi everybody! I'm Jennifer and I'm the business librarian here RIT. It’s my job to help students, staff and faculty navigate the various business resources available to you. I can also offer suggestions on which resources are right for seeking different types of information or for a particular type of project. And I can provide you with training on different databases and I can also suggest search strategies. I can also offer advice or caution when a particular piece of information may not exist or when that piece of information might exist but you won't have access through the RIT Library. One way to think of how a librarian helps is they offer expert guidance as you seek information They can ultimately save you time. So let's get started! Let's start with a short navigation of the InfoGuide for Global Business. When you land on the InfoGuide you're gonna start with basic country resources. And these resources are broken out by the different types of material you're probably after. So you have to more than likely do an overview of your country. And these four resources under country profiles are a great start. And then you'll want to catch up with the latest news in that country. Or news on a specific topic regarding that country. ProQuest is gonna be a perfect place to go. Then you're gonna probably want to examine an industry in that country. Now this is gonna get trickier because industry info is not available for every country. And then head down to Global Road Warrior for your culture and etiquette information. The guide also includes a tab for even more resources. Start in the basic country resources as I said but you may need even more information. And so this part of the guide provides even more country profiles and analysis in addition to even more news resources, industry resources some tax information, couple more etiquette places, and some risks services. CountryWatch is a great starting point for any international business project. It will help you understand some of the basic overview information of a country including the political environment, economic environment, investment potential, the social aspects of the country and the environmental or green overviews. CountryWatch is a subscription product so you are required to login using your RIT username and password. CountryWatch is more than just country reports. But where you're going to focus right now to just get a profile of a country is clicked on or hover over Intelligence Zone. And you'll see the Country Review section. Country Reviews are profiles of individual countries. The country review at the moment is defaulting to the United States. And this is the basic makeup of the country overview. Your navigation will be along your left hand side. There's a small country overview with details, overview and maps. Then you're going to think about this product in terms of the political overview section, the economical overview section, the investment overview section, the social overview, and the environmental overview. The last link that you do want access to on the bottom left is the country PDF download. And what this is, it's the entire country profile in one document. Now the profile for the United States is rather large. It is 1200 pages long. It exploded after the 45th president was elected. And it's a giant PDF of all those sections that I just recapped. I highly recommend that you grab this PDF and save it to your hard drive or maybe send it to your Google Drive account. Or upload it into a team folder where you working with your teammates. So let's head back here. More than likely in an international business class you're not reviewing the United States. So what you wanna do is pull down this menu. And then choose the country that you're after. Now keep in mind there are some entities that you might expect to have a country but they won't be listed in here. And one of them is Taiwan. So let's go up here to China and see if it's listed. It's not listed here. Let's go down to the Rs for Republic of Taiwan. And then to the Ts. So you can see in this product, this product does not recognize Taiwan. Or it is not listing it separately I believe that Taiwan shows up in the China section under a separate supplement, but I would have to double check.... there it is! Along with Hong Kong and Macao. Taiwan will show up here. Because sometimes the products also get political in addition to the country's being political about different areas. So as a demonstration I'm going to show you  Denmark. So for Denmark we get some of the latest news this is not going to be the only place that you look for news. We get a little map and we can see here that Denmark is surrounded by water. And it appears to be made up of a number of freestanding bodies. The way that I am going to suggest that you read this is the first thing I want to do for each of these sections is go to the Conditions section, so for Politics go to Political Conditions and this will get you up to speed as to what the current political conditions are. Now you do have to keep in mind these conditions might not be current up to the moment that you read this. So let's go down to the bottom and we can see here down on the bottom that this is current as of July 2020. Ok, but right now, when I am recording this it is September 14. So I might wanna check my news sections in another database usually called ProQuest to catch up on what is happened since July to now in the news. Next I want you to go down to the Economic Conditions section to read about the economy. I want you to read about the Investment Climate section. In the social overview you can jump into each one of these to read a little bit more about the social aspects and to get up to speed on the environment read Environmental Issues. Depending on the nature of your project you may need to delve in deeper to these other individual sections. So it definitely explore. So the first thing you gonna do once you get into a country grab the Country Review PDF. But then feel free to stay inside the product to navigate to the areas that you think might be helpful for your particular country. The country commercial guides are free guides from the U.S. government to help businesses understand some of the basics of doing business in other countries. Go to the country commercial guide website. Scroll down to the pick a guide section. Pick your region and then choose your country. So let's look at Turkey. The guide is broken out on the left hand side of different sections. It's a little similar to CountryWatch. You've got your political and economic environment. You've got more information here about doing business in a particular country. And within the doing business section you then have four subsections. The four subsections on the left match the boxes on the right. Work your way through these different sections skimming as you go along. This also has a section on trade and project financing you will find links to information about trade regulations also under customs and regulations standards. So you are going to get a little bit deeper information in here than you will get with the CountryWatch product. If you go back to... Back to the country commercial guide home page. If we go further down on the page you're gonna find a section called research center. So you get research by industry and research by country. The research by industry section will offer you some reports that the international trade administration has put together on different industries in different countries. So you can start with a broad grouping. We could take a look at Health Care. As we scroll down it's gonna give me even more specific subsectors of Health Care. Let's go to Medical Devices. It explains me what Medical Devices are and then I can view the reports for the various countries it is offering. So I've got Ukraine, Sweden, Panama, Austria, etc. So you could start to look at these reports. Let's look at Albania. And I see a date. So I know when this was updated. So this is a pre Covid report. That is always something to keep in mind. And I can walk through the Albania Healthcare System from the U.S. point of view. So explore within the country commercial guides the other information that it is offering you. One of the downsides to this site is there's no way to export all the information in one place. You have to un fortunately go page by page taking notes or printing the pages to a PDF or into your local drive Another source to take a look at for a country profile is Mergent Online. Mergent Online is typically a tool that is used to analyze the finances of publicly traded companies. But it does also include a country insight feature. Go to the country insight tab. You can choose a start date or an end date. And you're gonna choose the Mergent country profile and then choose your country. You'll notice here these are in regions. So let's choose Eastern Europe and this time choose Azerbaijan. Down on the bottom you'll see a little search button. This tool tends to have not a great design on its interface. And hit search. Now in this case it appears Azerbaijan has no country profiles or country insights so let's try again. Then let's choose Australia. Don't panic with the document date this is a technical issue in Mergent. The country profile reports are actually up to the 2019s. The report is a PDF that you can download. And it gives you that the date right on the top and it's not an narrative. It is lots of facts about the economy, the industries, securities etc. So this is one place that you're going to get a short, a very short overview. We're also going to start to get some of the key figure's. Notice the dates. Right, these economic data points from a 2019 report are two years old. You can find a little bit fresher data. But you're going to get the industries, the top industries as of 2017 etc. So this going to help you flesh out a little bit more of what is going on in your country. Now Mergent will also offer you, if we go back to starting point. Notice there's also a D&B risk profile that is available to you. So risk profiles are documents that help you understand how much risk will I be experiencing or bearing going into a country. So let's pick Turkey. This time I've checked off D&B Risk Profile and I'm gonna hit search. Now you can see there are way more of these these come out from every year. And this one is most up to date March 2020. Choose Turkey it is also going to be a PDF and it's a much longer than the Mergent country profile. This one is about 50 pages and it's gonna cover risk from a political, economic area. And it's also going to have both narrative and facts and data points and tables and charts for you. So from Mergent you're going to want to grab the country profile for your country and the country risk profile. So let's go in and let's take a look at Passport as one of our first industry research tools. Passport only covers business to consumer industries but it does cover them internationally. And the very first thing when you get to Passport is you have to agree to this contract. We buy these databases for classroom use only so do not use these while you're on co-op or hand off any of the reports or data to someone outside of RIT. The product is setup for businesses to use, we're buying the same version that corporations buy. And it's a pretty busy interface. You can do some keyword searching at the top. You can limit two analysis or statistics. So this database is broken up into mainly narrative reports and pure data. You gonna wanna start out with your industry category. These are the large broad consumer products industries. A couple Service Industries are available to you and two Supply Industries are available to you. Now notice let's say your industry is coffee. You're not going to see the word coffee in this window. But you will see hot drinks so let's choose hot drinks. What I'm showing you now is a basic a way to get to country reports or see if your country is covered. Because one of the things that happens in all of our products is there is not equal coverage of countries cross tabulated by industries. Where you go when you first get on the hot drinks page, we're gonna see that we can get some statistics. There's some immediate analysis here, now notice the structure of these: Hot Drinks: Quarterly Statement. Coffee in and it names a region. Where I want you to go first though is down to that country reports box. This is a great place just to see what's available in the hot drinks area. You have to first select your category. So we've got the broad category of hot drinks and then we have coffee, tea and other. And choose coffee and now all of this makes the geography box available to me. And now I can see which regions and which countries it has a report for. So I can see oh look it's got Azerbaijan here I can scroll down and you'll notice they're not in... they're sort of in our regional order. So let's go down and let's choose Finland. And the go button is now available to me. This will now take you to a section where you can view some of the narrative of this report and some data graphics, the context and an option to download what is in here. It will tell me at the top what the date is. Always watch your date so they've updated this report in November 2019. Remember this is pre Covid report. I can scroll down and start to read the analysis that it is offering me. I could jump to the data graphics to the context or I can go straight to the download section. And I can download the coffee in Finland report. The way the Passport works it wants your name and it wants your e-mail address. It is not emailing you have to report what it's doing is only students or staff anyone with a RIT e-mail address can unlock these reports. So once I put my name and my e-mail address it unlocks the report and my browser is setup for PDFs to appear on the bottom left hand side. And I have here a 2019 report. It's a combination of short narrative followed by data on variations that will help me to understand the coffee market in Finland. In addition to industry reports let's go back to the home page. You are going to also want to grab the consumer reports and they have five different consumer reports available to you. Digital households, income, lifestyles and population. And you wanna grab each one of these. So let's go to the lifestyle section. The methodology is going to be the same. Go to the lifestyle section. Look for the box that says country report. Now you have sub-categories around lifestyles so let's choose consumer behavior. We unlock our geography. And notice right away there's a difference in what's available to us. Before we had Azerbaijan as an option for the coffee report. We no longer see that here and that tells me they don't have a consumer behavior report for Azerbaijan. So let's choose in this case let's pick Mexico. And hit go. So again you're going to have in in equity in the availability of information for different countries and different analysis. But for this Mexico report also from November 2019. I can now start to understand the consumer in Mexico. I can grab or I can bring up a full screen PDF. I can also use this download button on left hand side to grab the PDF. And you're just going to walk through under consumers each one of the sections to look for the information that's going to be helpful for you. You also have access to home and economy section with multiple subsections. So if you wanted learn more about the economy of a particular country go Economies... Economy, Finance and Trade. Down to your country reports. This time you're only given one section. And then choose your country. So let's pick Azerbaijan this time. so we can see the country options expanded of a little bit more. So we actually get an Azerbaijan country profile and an Economy and finance trade. So this is another source where you can get the country profile. You can always start also in the keyword search if you want to. So if I was curious about statistics that were available around coffee. And they have demographic statistics, they have economic variables. I can see that I get RTD which stands for ready to drink coffee. So far wanted to look at ready to drink coffee in France I could choose that. There are different company and market or brand shares available in addition to other variables. So let's open up the RTD coffee in France statistics. And I get a short table that is telling me for each year the volume in the litres, starting in 2014 and in this case goes up to 2019. I could change might date because there actually forecasts in here. So I can go out to 2023. Hit apply. because there actually forecasts in here. So I can go out to 2023. Hit apply. and now notice these are in Italics I have estimates forecasting out the volume of litres expected to be sold of ready to drink coffee in France. I could change my geographies. I could play with all of these filters. I have an option to export or download this. Or offer a link. I'm not 100% sure the links will actually work in our subscription to feel free to give it a try. So Passport is an extremely newly powerful database they can help you if you are researching a consumer product. There are no business to business products in here other than one might consider ingredients and packaging to be business to business products. Let's take a look at Hoover's. Hoover's over the years has been traditionally known as a source that you go to to do company research. It has been a evolving over the years and they have in about the past year and a half added market research reports from Fredonia and MarketLine. To get to these reports go to the icon that says Analyze Markets and you will be given a search screen. You can search by term. You can also search by Research and Report specifically and by Industry. The search that Hoover's has built is 100% functional. So if you were to search for terms I'm not 100% convinced you're getting everything that you could possibly get. And the best way I've found to search for this is to use the Industry's options on the bottom. And you can choose to buy a D&B Hoover's Industry classifications. You can go by NAICS classifications or by SIC Both for the U.S. and the UK. So let's play around with that NAICS classification and you can choose whether you want Primary Industry or Secondary. What does that mean? Well there are some companies that do multiple things. So General Electric at one point was both a engine, jet engine manufacturer and also a bank. So if you're only looking for jet engines you might have to search for primary and secondary because they do multiple things. But most companies like let's take a Starbucks, Starbucks is both a restaurant and it is also a manufacturer and distributor and retailer of coffee. So there's a lot and nuances going on in industry searching. You can't trust that that one word that you choose is the word that's going to get you there. And then at the same time you can't trust how a specific database has set up its search engine. So you have to play with things. The first thing that I want you to do when you go in here is choose your report type. Analyst reports are going to be company reports. Market research reports are going to be about industries so you want to limit to the market research reports. Go down to industry and make your choice about what classification you wanna use. And I'm gonna leave it at primary. And I am going to type in, start to type in restaurants and it's going to start to offer me a suggestion. Now what I want you to do is to stay as broad as possible. Do not go into the more narrow NAICS codes with the more digits. Because you're going to end up getting zero. Stay at the top, stay broad. I can see just above the search box that my variable is chosen. And I also can see at the top of this box, at the very top that it's telling me know how many results I got. I can edit the search. So let's go back and I'm going to do restaurants again but this time I'm going to choose one that's more limited. I choose Full Service Restaurants and notice this time I got zero. This is why you wanna stay with the broader classification. I can also choose a date range. But that's not gonna be as important right now because it's going to let me sort them by oldest or by newest. And once I get used to the different brokerage house names I could search for only things by Fredonia or only things by MarketLine. But there's only really two major publishers of market research and yet so just leave that link for now. And then go to view your results. These are sorting in newest first and it gives me the title of the report followed by the publisher of the report. So we can see here that a Fredonia report comes out on top being the newest. followed by the MarketLine reports from 2019. And that's about the gap that you can expect in a in a product like this. We are not were not buying MarketLine  research directly. We're not a company, we're not doing real world business, we're doing classroom projects so we get our information at a slight discount so sometimes it's a little bit older. And you can see here in the titles that Freedonia call it Restaurants and Food Service, and MarketLine called it Food Service followed by the name of the country. where you'll also get in this one Food Service in Europe. You also get a regional market research reports. So this is going to help you do some regional industry research. On my left hand side I can go back and I can edit because what if I realize wait I only need things from Russia so I go back to edit my criteria. And because I observed that the titles have the country names in them. I can go to the Research and Reports section. And in the title field I type in Russia I add that as a variable and now I am down to one the item. So there's no Fredonia it's only a MarketLine Report. Foodservice in Russia as of the end of 2019 and there is the PDF of the MarketLine report for me to start to understand the market for Food Service in Russia. I get a description of what their covering followed by a table of contents. I can now download this report. I could print it Google Drive. Or use it as needed for my class. It's helpful to play with these different fields that you have access to. So here's another search might wanna do. You might wanna limit, let's say I'm doing research on industries in Russia. If I wanted to see all the reports that are available to me that You might wanna limit, let's say I'm doing research on industries in Russia. If I wanted to see all the reports that are available to me that are market research reports with the word Russia in the title. I would go down and not choose industry grouping and now I've got 128 items that I have access to. And I can see the spectrum of what they're offering me in the area of market research for the area of Russia. Let's go back to edit Let's change our country and let's see if there's anything for Croatia in this database. The reason you wanna do this is coverage is not equal for every country and industry. So Russia had 128 reports of Croatia only has 11 reports. And you start to go through these to see if there's anything helpful and we notice right away there is nothing new for MarketLine for Croatia. So if you were doing research on the country of Croatia of Hoover's in this case would not be helpful. Play around with these fields. The report text is going to be tricky, I find it doesn't always pick things up. The two brokerage houses that you're gonna wanna limit to our Fredonia and MarketLine but you can see there are other sources in here also. So that is searching and Hoover's for industry research. Now you need some news about your country that you're researching and maybe about the industry. Let's think in terms of major news sources and I want you from the LibGuide for this class: the INTB 225 LibGuide to use proquest. Now you can enter proquest from this first link or you could take a look in a simple search I setup. It will only retrieve articles from the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. Now for a broad project this is OK because these two news sources are going two cover major events that are happening in countries. And they also, the wall street journal's also will cover industries. The New York Times will talk about different industries mainly in the U.S. So I'd like you to start out by choosing the sample proquest search. It is now running a proquest search. And as I said it's a limiting just to these two publications. Now the sample search is limiting to TI parentheses Japan. What that means is I have told the search only find articles from the Wall Street Journal or the New York Times and the word Japan has to be in the title. This doesn't always work 'cause it's possible that there's an article in one of these two publications that is about the country but the country name doesn't show up in the title. As a starting point though this is a good way to start. So lets, this is where you can change this and you can say OK my country is not Japan I need to know what is the latest news about Armenia and I type in Armenia. Run the search. These are currently sorting in relevance order. What that means it is it thinks that this first article is more relevant to me then another article. And notice the date on this article. 1921. Not so relevant to me right now I'm not doing history research. So let's resort these and let's bring the most recent articles up to the top. And I'm recording this on September 30 and there is an article from today. So here we see there is currently a war happening or conflict. I guess they are calling it a conflict now between Azerbaijan and Armenia. And I'm getting the latest coverage out of the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. So this is important because if my project had been about analyzing starting a new coffee business and one of these two countries I might wanna find out more about this conflict. How widespread is it? Do they think it's gonna last a long time? So this is one quick way to start out to find out the latest news in your country. Let's change this back to Japan so let's pick a stable country. Now I could also tweak the search. So the way the search is running is its publication only Wall Street Journal New York Times. In the article title I have to have the word in Japan. This is where my Boolean connector comes in and I can also say AND the article has to include and you can pick a word that is about your industry. This gets a little tricky it doesn't always work. And not all industries get equal coverage. So I could say in coffee. This is now going to pickup any article in one of these to publications that has the word Japan in the title and it has the word coffee somewhere in the article. And I get a quick little preview right here: "We wash them daily and line then with coffee filters." I don't know exactly what they're  talking about other than its probably Covid related. And you can start too browse. You do not want to spend a lot of time doing this. One of the things that I do is I will open up a clock. I will go to google, search timer. And I will set a timer and I might set it for 15 or 20 minutes. And I might search for articles in that amount time. Now there's more than just the Wall Street Journal and New York Times in here so I could start over and I could say, let's go here to advanced search. I could do a completely different type of search and I could say I only want articles that are related to the geographic location of Japan. And they have to be about the particular subject, let's try backpacks. So unlike google what this is trying to do is say no the article doesn't have to have these two words it has to be about these two concepts. Now I don't expect to get much. I got 50 items. I'm going make sure... I'm just going to resort these again. Yup it looks like there in the proper order. And I'm getting things that are beyond just the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. "20 tech gifts for teens." So it's a suggestion type of article. I might not find any industry research in the here. But I also might find clues like Yeti the big cooler company expanding premium bag category so what are they expanding into? So the word backpack is somewhere in this article. And it might help me understand oh now there's a new competitor in that field. So this is about Japan and it's about Yeti the company. So news searching can be little bit tricky feel free to reach out to the librarian for suggestions of search terms or to get some more coaching. But the keys are to play around with your subject field or to use the pre-made search that's limiting just to the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. There is an even more advanced search in here that you could do. And it is called proximity searching. So I could in this command line interface say I want to the word coffee within 6 words of Japan. So the construction of N with a slash and the number 6. I am just randomly picking the number six. You can go up to 100 though I wouldn't go more than 20. I could say I wanna find any article where the word coffee falls within six words of the word Japan. I'm not bothering to do any other filters at this point because the filters occur over here on the left hand side. I'm still sorted by most recent first  so there's something here. But I am also getting scholarly journals and getting books and getting newspapers. And this is where I could filter down even more and say you know what? I only want to deal with the newspapers and maybe the trade journals. Trade journals are magazines that are geared to a specific industry focused audience. Now I'm down to 2200 items also in chronological order. And I could start to go through here so I see this from Asia News Monitor. An article about Vietnam becoming a leading coffee supplier to Japan. So maybe if my thing was wanting to supply beans I might wanna read this because now I realize I have another country competing with me to do something. There's also patents that are in here so it can sometimes be a little bit too much. And that's why kind of skimming through the titles is helpful and again that's why I like starting with the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. So those are couple quick tips on how to search for news in proquest. So those are going to be the main resources that will be helpful for your global business projects. Not every industry gets coverage for every country. There will be different levels of available information. Consumer products tend to get more coverage than business to business products. And mature countries tend to get more coverage than emerging countries. If you ever have a chance to pick your country and your industry do some preliminary searching to make sure there's going to be enough information available to you. It's OK to try to do a project that does not have readily available information, you're just going to have to work a little bit harder to piece things together through news and free sources on the web that aren't as extensive as some of the industry research resources that we have access to. Thank you for watching this library instruction video I hope you found it helpful. It is possible you still have outstanding questions about how to use a resource or where to look for a particular type of info, piece of information. And that's why you can reach out to me! By chat, e-mail or by making an appointment on our LibCal system. All that information is available to you on the end slide and within the information of this YouTube video. Please don't hesitate to reach out I am here to help you and that's my job Ok! Happy Researching! 