 Since I released my series on how I applied for my UK citizenship I've been asked a lot of questions on how to fill out the referee form and what you need to do. And so I'm just going to go through everything about this forum today, how I filled it out and hopefully this gives you some guidance on what you need to do. I'm Kat from Kat's Gone Global and this is a part of my UK citizenship series, as I said before, and it'll be popping up on a card now. I just want to run through the requirements of a referee first before we go into what's needed to be put on the form because that's nice and simple. So let's jump over to the documentation. The best document that I've found that goes over what a referee needs to do and the requirements that they need to meet is this document, which is National Policy, general information, all British nationals. So it's a long document going through all the requirements of what it means to become a British national and it is really handy just to verify your application against if you have any questions. So if you go to the table of contents and just skip down to Referees, it then goes through what a referee must be. So you need two referees for your application. One referee must be a British citizen, the other referee must be on their professional person's list. They must be over the age of 25, never had a conviction and have known you for three years. The referee must not be a relative representing you in this application, employed by the Home Office. If you're wondering what you need to provide for a child's referee, it does also go into this. So let's quickly read it. So for a child’s application, at least one of the referees must be a person who has dealt with the child in a professional role, such as a teacher, doctor, health visitor, or social worker. Where a child cannot provide a referee who has dealt with them in a professional capacity and has provided documents to show that they have attempted to do so, you can accept two referees who meet the criteria for referees on an adult application. Let's jump over to the list of professionals that are allowed to be your referee. So as you can see here, here's a list of acceptable profession persons and it goes into all of the professions that you can ask to be your referee, so make sure one of them maps to that. And that's it for the requirements for your referees. Now that you have found a lovely referee to potentially represent you, you have to ask them whether they're also willing to provide their personal information. So they need to provide you their full names, so first, middle and last name, date of birth, they also need to give you their passport number, their last three years worth of addresses. So if they've moved house in the last three years, they need to provide you every single address to support that and they also need to give you their job title. And that's it. So if they're happy to do that and they meet all the requirements, you're all good to go. The next step is to go to somewhere like Snappy Snaps or wherever the best place you need to go to get a passport photo, and basically you just need some British passport photo sizes to get taken. So these are actually the ones I used for my application before I changed my hair. So you can see me beforehand, and you just need to have two of these for your referees to fill in the back of. The next thing is to print off the referee form. So you can either go visit your referee or send a copy of this to your referee with the passport photos and they can fill it out. So here is just the form, you can find it online. Alternatively it is a part of your application and if you watch my other citizenship series videos, then you know where to find this in the decoration part of the application. So, it's just a two page form that they need to fill out. Now I'm going to pretend to be my own referee and fill this form out. So basically it says name of applicant here, so this is where your name goes. That's all that they need to put there, nice and simple. Then on this side of the form, they need to put their details, so therefore name, signature and date. I'm going to pretend I am Russell. Sorry, I'm just making up some names here. My own full interpretation of a signature and then a date that I need to put in, and I think today is ... I don't even know what day it is anymore, but I'm just going to put the 3rd of March, 2020, for example. That's basically all the parts that they fill in the form and then for the photos. They're going to get this photo that you've taken and going to put your name. So, you're going to put your date of birth. I'm not going to put my date of birth here because this is just an example for the video. So basically that's it. You just put all of your details on the back of your photo. When I say your details, the referee puts your details on the back of the photo, and that's it. Now, I didn't glue mine on this form. And the reason why I didn't glue it on this form is when you're scanning it, I was like, "How am I going to scan the whole form and then also the back of the photo?" So I personally did not glue this, I just scanned it one page like this, and then once I had completed that side, I then had scanned this page and then the back page. So I had three pages in total as that's the only way I knew how to provide a scanned copy of the back of the photo and provide both of those. So, that's personally what I did when it came to scanning, is just scanned this twice. Nice and simple. Now that you have finished scanning the referee form, make sure you follow the video, UKVCAS process, which we'll go through in details what the biometric appointment is and how to upload your documents. 