 Ana: Welcome, everyone. My name is Ana Arellano and I am an advisor at the International Education Office. Today, I'll be leading the Study Abroad for Psychology, Psychobiology, and Cognitive Science majors webinar as part of our Global Learning Opportunities Week. During this week, we are showcasing a number of study abroad related resources, opportunities, as well as funding for study abroad. At the International Education Office, you can consult with our study abroad advisors, our coordinators, and we can connect you with peers who have studied abroad themselves. This morning we will provide you information on COVID-19 and where study abroad stands as of today. We hope you had a chance to view our Study Abroad 101 Webinar, but we will also be providing some Study Abroad 101 refreshers. We will explain in more in-depth how study abroad, how to study abroad in your major, provide you with some sample programs, and close off the session with a Q&A, as well as a student returnee who will show you more about their experience. As of today, or as of this recording for those who will view it at a later time, Summer 2021 programs and on are scheduled to run. The UCLA Study Abroad office, together with its partners like UCEAP, is monitoring world events and we're continuously monitoring the safety of our programs for our students and our faculty abroad. Students enrolling in programs such as UCEAP during the academic year can maintain their UCLA enrollments for the term they plan to study abroad for an extended period of time. Additionally, our coordinators are developing virtual opportunities should in person fall through for our UCLA faculty-led programs. We are working in an ever-changing environment and now more than ever students who decide to study abroad in the near future will need to be flexible as factors outside of our control may change plans unexpectedly. If you are considering studying abroad and need to renew or apply for a passport, we know the U.S. Department of State has an extensive backlog of passport applications and is currently taking longer than the usual six to eight weeks processing window. We strongly encourage students who can, to apply for or renew their passport as soon as possible to ensure that they have their passport in a timely manner. There are a handful of programs that will require students to secure a student or a visitor visa before departure to enter certain countries and to be able to apply to these visas, you will need your passport before departure. This information is for U.S. citizens traveling with American passports, but similar delays may be occurring with International passport processing offices as well, so please make sure to check in with them. So we've asked participants to first view our Study Abroad 101 Webinar and we hope that's the case with most folks in the session as this session is intended to complement the 101 webinar from a topic specific focus. If you missed it, please do not look over that recording on our GLOW website, but here are just a few refreshers. In our 101 webinar, we cover topics such as the types of different programs available to UCLA students, how credit is transferred to UCLA, the cost of these programs, and the application process among other general topics. Complementing our 101 session, this session will focus on major guidelines, we will highlight specific programs that meet the theme of our session, share some returnee advice, and conclude with the Q&A session, and we've intentionally split the two to make these webinars a little bit more digestible. So UCLA can usually, students can experience a spectrum of study of opportunities. There is no one type of study abroad, and no one set time to study abroad for everyone. We offer programs such as Traditional University Immersion programs where students attend a school like Maastricht University in the Netherlands and take whichever courses they want, with local professors and local students at that institution. A Psychology student, for example, can take two Psychology courses towards a major and two courses towards the General Education requirements, and these are our UCEAP programs. Alternatively, students can also go on a three to five week long summer program with a UCLA professor and take roughly two to three classes in a more experiential learning environment. These programs are open to all majors and these are known as our UCLA Travel Study program. There are also new models of studying abroad now, we have opportunities where students can intern for academic credit and make progress towards a degree. There are options where they can intern in a startup in Berlin, a Business in Shanghai, or where other students can conduct field research in Costa Rica, for example. Both our UCLA Global Internship programs and our UCEAP programs offer these types of intern or research opportunity. Students can also take courses with a cohort of local students abroad. The entire cohort travels abroad, and returns to UCLA for UCLA Summer Sessions. These are our Global Cities programs. There are also options where students are on the program during the summer, or during the academic year, where they take courses exclusively with UC peers and with local instructors. We mentioned just a few, but there are a dozen others! These are the main ones that we do oversee in the IEO office. If you are eligible to receive financial aid, you can transfer over your scholarships, grants, and loans to cover the cost of a UC study abroad program. A financial aid package will be adjusted to meet the total cost of your study abroad program and always feel free to connect with the financial aid advisor for more information on how financial aid can be applied towards your study abroad program If you are interested in going abroad, students should plan ahead and begin applying six to nine months before their intended departure. Generally for most of our programs, as long as you meet the eligibility requirements and submit your application on time you should be going abroad on that program. We have a few programs that are limited spaced and four programs that require personal statements. For those limited spaced programs, we do honor the first-come, first-served system. If you are interested in going abroad for Summer or Fall 2021, our applications are now open! Our Winter and Spring 2022 applications will open in the coming Winter quarter. To talk more about studying abroad as a UCLA Psychology, Psychobiology, or Cognitive science major, with us today we have Undergraduate Advisor, Dylan, from the Department of Psychology. Dylan: Hi Ana. Thank you so much for having me and thank you everyone for attending this webinar today. My name is Dylan Sarnowski and I am one of the undergraduate advisors for the Psychology Department. Ana, should I just let you know to go to the next slide to move forward? Ana: Yeah, I'll go ahead and move forward, sorry about that. Dylan: Alright, so one thing that we want to keep in mind is that students are not obligated to study abroad in their major. While there are a lot of programs where students can take courses that count for their major, there are also a lot of programs where you can complete GE requirements, requirements for a minor, your foreign language, and there's also other reasons to study abroad, just you know outside of satisfying requirements, you know such as just, personal growth, professional development, and even if you're just taking you know courses that are only counting as units towards your degree, they're still counting as units towards graduation, so they're still counting in that way, however one thing to note is that a lot of programs aren't really designed around a major, especially when you think about how every university has slightly different structures for their majors depending on their students, so that's the last note is just to expand your search beyond major programs. But if you do want to study abroad in your major, Danilo: Dylan, you're muted. Dylan: Oh alright, am I back? Sorry about that, thank you. Ana: That's not, no worries, you're back. Dylan: So for studying abroad, if you want to have courses apply to your major requirements, it depends on which particular major that you are pursuing, but the main idea is that you have to petition courses through our department and through our office to count for the major and how you petition is you'll need to present the most recent syllabus or a very detailed course description for approval. The syllabus is the most preferred form of course like the most preferred document, just so that we can compare it to our courses, and basically because we are all remote right now, you would just submit that petition via email to our general advising email. and then I think we'll go to the next slide. Alright, so when to study abroad. So again, it depends on your major because all three of our majors have very different deadlines. So for the Psychology major, generally we would recommend that students try to study abroad after declaring major standing, so that's after submitting the online application to declare major standing. The final deadline for applying into the psych major is by the end of fall quarter of your third year, so ideally for psych majors, we would encourage students to study abroad in their third or fourth years and for Psychobiology, there are a couple of programs that are offered during the summer that are very popular for our students where they complete their physics series over the summer and so that's definitely a highly recommended program. It's very popular with our students, aside from that though, if you wanted to take courses for your major for your upper division major requirements we would generally recommend that you go during your fourth year after declaring major standing because the final deadline to declare major standing for Psychobio is by the end of summer following your third year, so we generally recommend that students go in their fourth year if they're interested in taking upper division coursework, just because you would already be declared major standing and you wouldn't have to worry about completing the preps. Same thing with Cognitive Science. The Cognitive Science major has the same deadline as the Psychobiology major but you would basically just want to consider going after declaring major standing so that you don't have to worry about completing the prep courses while you're abroad. Alright and then I think we'll move on to the major academic plans. So for the major academic plans these just basically show more specific information about how to petition courses for each major, oh sorry I think I might have accidentally jumped a slide, there we go, so basically for these major academic plans they each just kind of show how to petition courses, what requirements are likely to be petionable, my bad, so for example, with the Psychology major, students only have to petition if they're having a course count for a particular, in place of a particular course at UCLA but if for Psychology if you wanted to have a course count as just like a major elective as long as it's an upper division site course it'll automatically count and then for Psychobio and Cognitive Science, generally for these majors because they're more specific, we do require students to petition most courses that they would have to take if they wanted it to count for the major again, just because a lot of the major requirements for Psychobio and Cognitive Science are on more specific topics, but yeah if you basically, the main idea is you would have to submit the course syllabus to our office to petition it to count for the major, but if you ever have questions about that, I mean you're more than welcome to contact our office. We can give you more information about how to submit those petitions and we can also go over I guess a timeline of when you would, one would be a good time for you to study abroad. So if you have questions about Psychology specifically after this, feel free to contact our office. Ana: and then I think that was very very helpful. If you have questions, I see questions coming in through the Q&A, if you have questions for myself or Dylan, we'll be taking those in the order we see them at the end, but just keep them coming. We will get to those at the end of the presentation but before we move on as part of our Global Learning Opportunities Week we are hosting a keyword scavenger hunt each day this week for a chance to win a $75 gift card. Today's word of the day is HYGEE and in order to win this raffle please enter our this keyword at ieo.ucla.edu/glow and you must submit this word by 11:59 pm to enter your chance to win today's prize and today's prize is a $75 gift card to Target. Once again the keyword is HYGEE and you must enter it by 11:59 pm. I'll keep it up for a few more seconds just to make sure folks note it down. Perfect $75 dollars to Target sounds like a great raffle so be sure you enter that by the end of today. So now we would like to show you a few sample programs that previously, that previous Psychology department majors have participated in the past. We have our UCLA travel study program which are three to five weeks. They're only during the summer and these are with UCLA professors. On this program of "In the Footsteps of Hans Christian Anderson" students would travel to Copenhagen for four weeks and enroll in two courses and make progress towards GE and Writing II requirements. On this program of "Renaissance and Modernity" students can travel to Rome for four weeks, enroll in three courses and make progress towards your GE, Diversity and Foreign Language requirements. The UCLA study abroad office has now developed internship programs for academic credits. While there's no program designs for the, specifically for the Psychology department, if you are interested in Global or International Affairs, you can still participate on this program. The Global Affairs Internship includes locations in Colombia, in Ireland, Vietnam, and the UK in England. You are expected to be on site for roughly eight to, eight weeks during the summer and will receive credit for the International Area Studies internship course and if you're interested, can enroll in an intercultural communication course as well. Placement options include advocacy groups, global health, and non-profits among others. Lastly, we have our UCEAP programs that are available during the summer and the academic year. For example, we have Yonsei University where students can participate during the Summer, Fall, Spring or Year and receive potential credit towards their major, minor, or GE requirements. Specifically to Psychology, sample courses include developmental psychology, social psychology, and work inside and work in psychology. We have the University of Sussex available during the Summer, Fall, Spring, or Year terms where you can potentially receive credits towards a major, minor, and GE. Sample courses include the intro to physics one and two course which can satisfy the Physics 5ABC series as Dylan mentioned earlier, we have the health psychology, we have drugs brain and behavior, as well as psychology and education. We have another program for example at Maastricht University that's available during the Summer, during the Fall semester or the Spring quarter where you can make progress towards your major, minor, or GE's. Sample courses at Maastricht University include positive psychology, psychology and law, hormones and the brain behavior, as well as child neuropsychology and with this, today we have a Maastricht alumna. I would now like to transition over to our student panel. Farnoush, welcome and thank you for joining us today. Before we begin, can I please have you introduce yourself, your name, your pronouns, major, and your program of participation. Farnoush: Of course. My name is Farnoush Yazdani. My pronoun my pronouns are she and her and the program that I participated in is the International Summer School of Maastricht University in UCEAP and so how I was involved, sorry so how I was actually involved in it is on my third well, I'm as a transfer student, my first year but you know as a third year university student, I was really interested in wanting to study abroad and I thought it was probably my only chance. So the summer after my first year at UCLA, I actually ended up being able to go to Maastricht and what I what I had to do was after after I received after, I like I had I finished all my lower objectives and I had and I was able to do it, I talked to you know, I believe Dylan it was, and he said yeah you can do it, you could totally sign up for it and so I had I got in contact with the, with your office with the IEO office and I ended up being able to go during the Summer of 2019. I took two courses. I took Positive Psychology and Psychology in our World and I loved it. I absolutely loved it. I was able to also have free time because our classes were four days a week so Friday, Saturday, Sunday I was exploring. I was meeting new friends, and exploring the city, and I actually was able to go to different countries. So the second picture as you can see is the Louvre in Paris. Yeah and it was amazing. I got to see like the most beautiful museum in my life and Ana: Thank you Farnoush. Farnoush: Sorry Ana: No no worries. This is great opportunity. I think you've spoken about a very specific topic which is great, letting transfer students know that it is possible to study abroad, you can do it just speaking with your academic advisors. That was a very very good point. Thank you. I know you mentioned you loved the program, but is there any tips that you would recommend to students and perhaps a little bit more on your insight of how you chose this program as opposed to others? Farnoush: Well my process was I first I went I wanted it to be part of UCEAP. That's what I wanted it to be that maybe if it could fulfill some requirements that would be great. So what I did was I just go first things first, I went on the website, well I went on the UCEAP website and I scrolled around and I looked into all the programs and afterwards I decided okay so I wanted to be Psychology that's what I wanted to be focused on so on UCEAP, I looked through I made sure it was only for UCLA that I wanted it to have that like I wanted it to have that connection between UCLA and the program that I wanted it to have and use UCEAP and then I specified Psychology and I figured the country that I preferred to go to was the Netherlands so that's where I ended up looking into and I was able to you know go back and forth with the International Office and I had to submit a bunch of paperwork and they said it was good to go, I could do it but of course I really I really had to be in touch with you guys with your office so but what I did first, of course, was just browsing and see what I wanted to do on the website so that's what I recommend. Ana: Good, good. Thank you, Farnoush and you actually received a scholarship to help fund your program. Could you talk to your peers a little bit more about the scholarship process and perhaps any tips that you may have? Farnoush: Yeah so after I was I committed into wanting to do it, I went on I created my profile and to you know to ask to go abroad and in the profile it said do you want to look through these scholarships and there was that option and of course I did and what the scholarship actually asked me to do was, say why you wanted why you needed it, like it helps if you're a first time study abroad traveler, and you kind of have to explain like what your reasons are, or like why you would be like an exciting person to receive this scholarship of going abroad, and like bringing back new experiences, because of course when you come back you also have to fill out like another half of the scholarship, that's the requirement. So that's what I had to do but with the scholarship and with the financial aid, I think well for my program specifically I had to pay maybe like $7,000 including the travel fare and everything else I think that's what it had to be but I think it was completely worth it and my program was for eight weeks so two months in like lots of different countries as well that I personally wanted to go to, I think it was worth it. Ana: That's good, I'm glad to hear that. One last question. You mentioned traveling, were you able to travel, you mentioned that you're able to travel, did you travel before your program, during, or after? Was it a little bit of all three or how were more your travel experiences? Farnoush: Well for me I, the previously I planned for my flight for the to-go and come back the round trip I had planned that so I couldn't really budge on on my airfare. So I went to the program the day it started and I had to leave right as the program ended so I couldn't do any traveling before, or after, but during the program I was able to like you know as I said I had only four days a week of class so I got lucky and so the rest of the three days I was able to you know make like with the friends I had just met over there we planned some awesome trips to Rome to Paris to Switzerland and other countries like that so I kind of had to like rely on like myself and friends and it wasn't it was not pre-planned but Ana: Absolutely. Farnoush, thank you. You make a good point throughout your entire talking points that you know you are making progress towards your degree you are taking courses for psychology but there's also time to have fun, enjoy yourself, meet new people, and that's something we really want students to be able to grasp from study abroad. I'm happy to know you had a great experience Farnoush. As a Maastricht alumni, I'm very very happy to hear good things about Maastricht and your experience in study abroad. We have just about short minutes left so we're going to go ahead and turn it into our Q&A. If you have any questions for Dylan, myself, and Farnoush, please let us know in the Q&A. We're going to go ahead and begin just answering some questions. First and foremost we see, "Will we get a refund if the programs are cancelled?" The answer is if you're participating on a UCEAP program and you've made any initial payments to UCEAP before your application has or before your program has been suspended, you will receive a full refund for UCEAP, UCEAP fees. If there are any third party fees that you do that you are paying for we will connect with third party providers just to see what we can be done but you will be refunded for all UCEAP fees. At the time at the time of application there is no application fee so no need to worry about that. "How will I know if my program will be canceled cancelled?" At this time all alerts for programs that are canceled will be provided on our website ieo.ucla.edu/alerts. That is our most up-to-date information that we have. Additionally if you have already signed up to participate in the program, the program has been canceled, you will be notified immediately whether it be from the IEO office or partners of UCEAP, or the Travel Study Coordinator So the question is, "Where do you put the keyword on the website?" It would be ieo.ucla.edu/GLOW. If you scroll just a little bit down on that page, there'd be a section for enter the keyword and that is where you will be able to enter the HYGEE keyword of the day. Question for Farnoush, "where did you live? Any advice for finding apartments abroad?" Farnoush: So I lived in a in a housing situation that they had already set up for me and that's also another thing that I when I looked into the website I specifically wanted it to be a program that they provided the housing because you know I don't it's really hard to find apartments like that's what I thought personally, so if if that's also a big issue for you I think you should definitely look into the program and see if they offer that housing and for me they had two options they said we will provide you housing it's included in the cost do you want you know to have like your own room, do you want it to be single, do you want to share with a guest, do you want to share with roommates ,or do you and also do you want to share a kitchen with like your whole floor, or do you want you know to have your own little kitchen, and so I I was able to rate my preferences in the in the housing situation and I think I got really lucky because I met an awesome roommate and we had a kitchen inside and it was amazing but yeah I think on the website when you're like just browsing I think make sure to look for if you have to find an apartment or if you can provide if they're going to provide that for you. Ana: So yeah thank you, Farnoush. "Will studying abroad over the summer impact our chances of studying abroad again during the school year?" No, actually students have studied abroad in the past more than once. They can study abroad during the summer, they can study abroad during the academic year, they can do back-to-back programs, it will not hinder your opportunities. If you are participating on a UCEAP program, there is a 56 unit cap that you can transfer from your study abroad program to UCLA, that's the equivalent to about a year and perhaps a summer program, depends, but you are more than welcome to participate in more than one program. Si if you have any other Q&A's, any questions, feel free to still include them in the in the Q&A section. I will continue answer them, because we are two minutes left just for this info session, we're going to go ahead and just move forward. Before we end, if you are interested, be sure to scan this QR code with your phone to sign up and receive study abroad programs. You can also visit the bitly link below so, bit.ly/uclaieolist and once again this is sign up to receive more study abroad program updates. And if you have any further questions, feel free to contact our office. We are generally available through info@ieo.ucla.edu we also host virtual drop-ins Monday through Thursday from 11 a.m to 1 p.m and then again from 2 to 4 p.m. If you have any questions specifically about physics, about this presentation, always feel free to email me as well at info@ieo.ucla.edu. If you have any questions for Dylan, Psychology department, you're always welcome to connect with them via the message center. Dylan, if you want to provide your email address as well I can include them in the chat. So you can always contact Dylan as well for any further information. And I think there is one more Q&A before we end the presentation. The answer is, the question is "Is there a difference between immersion and international experience types?" The answer is yes. So the immersion program it's more of you're at a host institution, being taught by host instructors, and with local students. Our international experience is more of you are surrounded or with international students, itself as opposed to local students so that's the main difference so you still have the opportunity to locally immerse yourself. I hope that answered the question. With that, thank you everyone for joining our info session today. If I can mention, if you have any further questions feel free to contact our office, contact Dylan, contact myself. If you were able to catch Farnoush's email as well, she was more than willing to share that with you. I hope you have a great rest of the day and thank you for joining us today. 