 From one of the busiest places on earth... ...to practically a ghost town. New York City was one of the epicenters of Coronavirus. The pandemic has transformed the city for the years to come. In this video, we’ll explore what New York is like when life slowly returns to normal, and if you should travel there now. Can you use public transportation or see a Broadway musical? What are some of the best low-risk activities? Can you still have a great experience in New York in the post-Covid world? Let’s explore. First, let’s take a look at the new health-related rules in public. MASKS Masks or any kind of face cloths that fit over the nose and mouth became a requirement in all public indoor areas such as airports, museums, hotel lobbies, and public transportation. Depending on when you’re watching this video, masks and other preventive measures may not be required anymore. Just check the description for updated information. HAND SANITIZERS One of the best ways to protect against Coronavirus and many other diseases is to wash your hands and use hand sanitizers. Using hand sanitizers when you enter the store or any other establishment became a norm in New York City. While you can find many hand sanitizers throughout the city, we suggest bringing your own and use it anytime you touch elevator buttons, handrails, etc. SOCIAL DISTANCING Many places in New York, mostly indoors, including shops, museums, public transportation, as well as public outdoor areas, require the minimum social distance of six feet. TEMPERATURE CHECKS Some places will require a temperature screening before entering. However, large thermal imaging systems that can measure your temperature from a distance have been installed, so you don’t have to spend extra time in line. MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY Many places now have a maximum occupancy rule, or in other words, how many people can be in the building at the same time. Can you use public transportation, and how? New York’s numerous transportation options make it easy to get around the city, and apart from the social distancing measures and health precautions, nothing significant has changed, so you’ll still be able to get an Uber or ride the metro without major interruptions. Most lines operate regularly, although some timetables may be different. To be sure, always check google maps or a similar app to see updated real-life timetables. You are currently required to wear masks when using public transportation, And that includes Ubers. Subways, stations, and terminals are being cleaned every day, and hand sanitizers are available to the passengers. The best prevention you can take is to avoid crowds at all costs. Try using the metro during off-peak times and wait for the next metro or bus that is less crowded. At some stations, there are also vending machines where you can purchase masks. Also, cash transactions at booths have been eliminated. Airports are also adapting to the new cleaning policies to ensure public safety, like maintaining six feet of distance between passengers. You are, for example, also expected to put your boarding pass on the scanner by yourself. Covid-19 has certainly changed how we eat and drink in public. It might be a while before we can experience the pre-Corona restaurants and bars in New York. Some places have shut down or remain closed, and most local bars, shops, and restaurants have adapted their business to the new safety standards and are reopening over multiple phases. At the time of the making of this video, resultants are only open outside, and indoor sitting areas are expected to open soon, with reduced occupancy. Even restrooms may be closed. Most of the places that remain open have set up seating areas on sidewalks to create the best possible experience in these new circumstances. In the outdoor areas, you must be at least six feet from another table or a seat, and if that is not possible, there is a plastic divider between the tables. Although there is an official recommendation on wearing masks while you're seated, very few restaurants enforce this regulation. Usually, people wear masks just until they are seated. Also, restaurants and bars cannot serve alcohol unless you purchase food too. Some restaurants and bars sell the so-called drinks to-go, but they can only be sold with a takeout order. Let’s look at how the Coronavirus has changed lodging and accommodation in New York City. While many hotels are closed, and some will probably remain closed even after the pandemic, there are still many that are open. And don’t worry, the standards and the newly imposed protocols for cleaning and disinfection in New York are in place. For instance, daily room cleaning and disinfection is now required, and the cleaning is now deeper and longer. If you want to be on the safe side, you can stick to the well-known hotel chains that follow strict in-company procedures. If you have any questions, contact your accommodation in advance. Currently, you are required to wear masks in the common areas such as the lobby and elevator, and some guests are required to fill out a traveler health form. And just a quick tip: since we never know what’s going to happen, we suggest reserving accommodation with a cancellation option. Check out our video on things to know before you visit New York where we cover accommodation and other practical information. Coronavirus has also changed how we make our payments. The new preferred payment method is contactless payment, mostly because it requires less or no physical contact. Businesses in New York have quickly adapted and accept contactless credit cards and Apple Pay. Objects other people touch regularly carry higher risks of contracting the virus. That includes ATMs, payment terminals, etc. so we suggest using contactless payments wherever you can. To avoid additional risk, you can also prepay your accommodation using services like Airbnb and Booking.com to avoid any unnecessary contact when staying there. Also, you can book and pay for many of the famous attractions, such as observation decks or museums online. So, let’s take a look at what indoor activates you can and cannot plan in New York City right now. The city offers endless indoor activities. And while many establishments may be closed, businesses are reopening. Here’s info on the most common places. SHOPPING & RETAIL New York is one of the top shopping areas in the world. Retailers must adapt to the new measures, including limiting capacity to 50%, keeping the social distance of six feet, samplers or bars within the shop are closed, and shoppers are encouraged to use contactless payments. MUSEUMS There is a 25% maximum occupancy at museums and other related venues, you should maintain the six feet social distance, and buy tickets online whenever possible. Group tours are available inside the museums but have to follow social gathering requirements at all times. At the time of making of this video, the Statue of Liberty is open, except for indoor areas and the Statue Cruises, the only official cruise provider that takes you to the island is operating and following strict safety measures. OBSERVATION DECKS New York City is famous for its skyline, and its impressive observation decks. Top of the Rock on Rockefeller Center, Empire State Building, The Edge, and One World Observatory are currently open, with all the safety measures in place. MOVIES AND BROADWAY SHOWS Movie theaters remain closed indefinitely because according to the New York Governor “Cinemas are less essential and come with a higher risk of virus transmission.” And if you are planning to attend a Broadway show, unfortunately, they are not coming back until 2021. Always check Google and the official website for current opening hours and other information and know that sometimes even that information may be incorrect. And here comes the fun part – the outdoor activities. There is an array of unique activities you can enjoy outdoors, where Covid risk is substantially lower. You can see and experience much of New York from just visiting the outdoors. Here are some great ideas: PARKS New York City is home to hundreds of parks and recreation areas like the world-famous Central Park in Manhattan or Prospect Park in Brooklyn. Parks and restrooms within the parks are now open. Visit one of the amazing smaller parks spread throughout the city, such as Bryant Park, Washington Square Park, and many others. Visit the 9/11 Memorial, located precisely where the World Trade Center Towers once stood. Walk around the charming neighborhoods like Little Italy, once a large settlement of Italian immigrants and a known mobster meeting place, or Chinatown, full of restaurants and shops. You can even walk around mid-Manhattan to admire beautiful buildings like the Chrysler Building, Grand Central Terminal, and Public Library or enjoy the one-of-a-kind outdoor areas such as Hudson Yards with its new attraction, The Vessel. New York City is also full of fantastic street art. Explore DUMBO, a neighborhood in Brooklyn with amazing views of Manhattan. Or visit some of the other best views of the city. And yes, you can walk across the world-famous Brooklyn Bridge and other famous bridges with pedestrian access. Check out our video about the top 10 things to do in New York City or buy our New York travel guide for more suggestions. By the way, our travel guide is a mobile-friendly .pdf document that you can use on your phone. It covers the top 20 things to do in New York, things to know before you go there and other practical information. TOURS While some tours are carried out with all the safety measures in place, another great way to discover the Big Apple is by a self-guided tour. There are even some great virtual tours that can help you prepare before you go. Check the description for links. And if you want to explore New York City by bike, some bike rental services are now open. With social distancing requirements, nightlife and clubs are not returning to normal anytime soon. Some of the bars quickly adapted and started selling, for example, cocktails-to-go with a takeout order, delivery menus, or other creative ways of surviving and keeping the business operational during the pandemic. Avoid attending the so-called “underground Manhattan parties” that have been spreading throughout the city. So who can travel to New York City? The rules of who can visit and under what conditions change all the time. For example, at the time of making of this video, residents of multiple high-risk US states are required to self-quarantine for 14 days when arriving in New York. Many international travelers, such as those coming from the EU Schengen Area, citizens of the UK, China, Brazil, and some other countries, are currently completely banned from entering the United States. But the situation changes fast, and restrictions can be lifted or even more put in place at the time when you’re watching. Check the description for links to current travel restrictions. The situation can change only days or even hours before your arrival, so always book your accommodation, flights, or anything else with cancellation options, and if you’re coming to New York from outside United States, get travel health insurance that covers Covid. So here comes the big question: Should you travel to New York City? Well, it depends on many things, also how far away you are, are you are willing to take the risk of canceling your trip or part of the trip if the situation worsens. But that aside, despite it being severely hit by Coronavirus, New York City is still one of the most impressive and desirable travel destinations in the world and has a lot to offer. Some activities have higher chances for exposure to Covid. Spending time in crowded places such as restaurants, events, riverboats, etc. can be riskier, so if you want to be on the safe side, make an itinerary where you avoid such places. You can still have a great time in New York City. And to make your perfect itinerary continue watching our New York series and discover some of the best things to do, what to know before you travel to the Big Apple, and much more. Just click here. 