BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia-Pacific (“APAC”). See Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographical information.Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.BUSINESS OVERVIEW For over 30 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments interact. Across these markets, we help our customers create and deliver the most compelling experiences in a streamlined workflow, and optimize those experiences for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anywhere, anytime.While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services, and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media—providing tools, services and solutions that enable individuals, small and medium businesses and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, web designers, app developers and digital media professionals, as well as management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate and distribute documents. This is the core of what we have delivered for over 25 years, and we have evolved our business model rapidly to provide these customers with a more complete and integrated workflow across the variety of new devices, formats and business models that continue to emerge.Digital Marketing—providing solutions and services for creating, managing, executing, measuring and optimizing digital advertising and marketing campaigns across multiple channels. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers,  3Table of Contentsmerchandisers, web analysts, marketing executives, information management executives, product development executives, and sales and support executives. We process over 90 trillion data transactions a year via our SaaS products, providing our customers with analytics, social, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management and video solutions. This complements our digital media franchise, bringing together the art of creating and managing content with the science of measuring and optimizing it, enabling our customers to achieve their optimal business outcomes.We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Marketing categories, where our mission is to change the world through digital experiences. By integrating products from each of these two areas of Adobe’s business, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other company currently offers. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue investing in engaging their constituents digitally.SEGMENTSOur business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities described above, placing our Print and Publishing business in a third segment that contains some of our mature products and solutions.This overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2017 and beyond for each of our segments. See “Results of Operations” within Part II, Item 7 titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OVERVIEWDigital MediaDigital Media OpportunityRecent technology trends in digital communications continue to provide a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Due to increases in mobile computing and bandwidth, rich media consumed in digital environments and the rise of online social communities, the demand for digital media solutions to create engaging online experiences is higher than ever. Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on this opportunity by delivering rapid innovation to increase our customer reach, deepen engagement with communities and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on cloud-based offerings, which are licensed on a subscription basis.The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud—a subscription service that allows members to use Adobe’s creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktops, web and mobile devices.  Creative Cloud members can download and access the latest versions of our creative products such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom, Adobe InDesign and many more creative applications.  They can also use Creative Cloud mobile apps and integrated cloud-delivered services on their connected devices such as smartphones and mobile devices to augment their creative process wherever they go.  In addition, members can access a growing marketplace of digital content through Adobe Stock, a leading online marketplace for photos, graphics and videos, as well as fonts from the Adobe Typekit marketplace. Through Creative Cloud, members can access online services to sync, store, and share files; showcase and discover work on Behance, the largest online community of creative professionals; publish and deliver digital content via app stores; develop mobile apps; and design and manage websites. Adobe is redefining the creative process with Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and deliver engaging digital content. A core part of Creative Cloud is Adobe Sensei, a new framework and set of intelligent services for dramatically improving the design and delivery of digital experiences. Adobe Sensei leverages machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning capabilities to tackle today’s complex creative experience challenges. Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals including graphic designers, production artists, web designers and developers, experience and user interface designers, videographers, motion graphic artists, prepress professionals, video game developers, mobile application developers, students and administrators. They rely on our solutions for publishing, web design and development, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development and document creation and collaboration. End users of our creative tools work in businesses ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies, small and medium-sized businesses and individual freelancers. Moreover, our creative solutions are used  4Table of Contentsto create much of the printed and online information people see, read and interact with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content. Knowledge workers, educators, hobbyists and consumers also use our solutions to create and deliver creative content.Our Digital Media business offers many of the products included in Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including cloud-enabled subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products. We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe Premiere Elements, Adobe Typekit and mobile apps such as Adobe Photoshop Mix, Adobe Photoshop Sketch, Adobe Photoshop Fix, Adobe Capture CC, and Adobe Spark that run on tablets and mobile devices. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services.”Adobe’s Digital Media segment also includes our Document Cloud business, built around our Acrobat family of solutions, the Adobe Acrobat Reader and a set of integrated cloud-based document services. For over twenty years, Adobe Acrobat has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or filled out utilizing our free Adobe Acrobat Reader. Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and services to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide range of tasks ranging from simple publications and forms to mission-critical engineering documentation and architectural plans. With our Acrobat product and its innovative cloud services, we have extended the capabilities of our solutions. Users can take advantage of electronic document signing with Adobe Sign and manage, track and control documents through Adobe Send & Track.Digital Media StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of tools and services that allow individuals, small and medium businesses and enterprises to create, publish and monetize their content anywhere.We expect to continue driving new user adoption of our creative business over the next several years outside of our core creative professional target market because of the attractive monthly subscription pricing for Creative Cloud combined with the strong brand of our creative solutions and the broad value proposition provided by Creative Cloud. The subscription model results in a ratably reported revenue stream that is recurring and highly predictable. We are focused on migrating existing users from older versions to current versions of our offerings, and new customer adoption. Aspects of this strategy include: focusing future innovation by our engineering teams on delivering cloud-based functionality, such as Creative Cloud Libraries and Adobe CreativeSync, to enable our customers to use our creative tools and services across a variety of devices in ways that are not possible with previous desktop versions; integrating Creative Cloud with our Adobe Stock online marketplace offerings; increasing the value of Creative Cloud by delivering frequent updates and enhancements to subscribers to address their content creation challenges; using promotions to attract customers to the offering; expanding our go-to-market reach through channel partners to acquire new customers; and utilizing Creative Cloud for teams and Creative Cloud for enterprise offerings to drive broad adoption with customers who license our offerings in volume.As part of our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize our digital marketing solutions to drive customer awareness of our creative products and increase sales of our products through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is increasingly becoming the destination site where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering.In our Document Cloud business, although Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing, we believe there are tens of millions of users who still need the capabilities provided by Acrobat. We plan to continue to market the benefits of our Document Cloud solutions, combined with the low entry point of subscription-based pricing, to individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world and increase our seat penetration in these markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets, while simultaneously enhancing and building out the delivery of cloud-based document services to our Acrobat and Adobe Acrobat Reader users. We intend to continue promoting the capabilities of our cloud-based document solutions to millions of Acrobat users and hundreds of millions of Adobe Acrobat Reader users. Our Adobe Sign services provide a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and are an easier way for customers to manage their contract workflows. We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market and continuing to add new capabilities to our Adobe Sign offering, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution, growing our revenue with this business in the process. 5Table of ContentsDigital MarketingDigital Marketing OpportunityConsumers today increasingly demand personalized content and experiences in their online interactions, across multiple channels and devices. As a result, any business or entity with an online presence must figure out how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impacts success. Delivering the best experience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content. Marketing executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers’ experiences and deliver the greatest return on their marketing spend so they can demonstrate the success of their programs using objective metrics.We believe there is a significant opportunity to address these challenges and help customers transform their businesses. Chief Marketing Officers, digital marketers, advertisers and publishers are increasingly steering their marketing, advertising, and development budgets toward digital media. Many industry analysts predict more advertising dollars will be spent in digital than in traditional media in the future. As marketers make this move to digital, our opportunity is accelerating as customers look for vendors to help them navigate this transition. However, marketing in a digital world is not simply about executing campaigns in each digital channel. Marketers, and entire enterprises, also need to ensure they deliver meaningful experiences to their consumers across both digital and traditional channels and in areas such as sales, support, and product interactions where consumers expect experiences to be consistent and personalized.Our Digital Marketing business targets this large and growing opportunity by providing comprehensive solutions for data and analytics, advertising, personalization, and content delivery.  Our solutions focused on these categories include features for web and mobile analytics, social marketing, targeting, advertising and media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, advertising and real-time bidding technology, premium video delivery and monetization. We deliver these capabilities through our Adobe Marketing Cloud, an integrated offering enabling marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal business performance. With its broad set of solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Audience Manager and Adobe Primetime, as well as real-time dashboards and a collaborative interface, customers of Adobe Marketing Cloud are able to combine data, insights and digital content to deliver a personalized brand experience to their consumers. The artificial intelligence and machine learning framework enabled by our strategy with Adobe Sensei enhances Adobe Marketing Cloud.  By building on existing features such as anomaly detection in Adobe Analytics and predictive outcome capabilities with solutions such as Adobe Campaign, we believe Sensei will increase the value we provide our customers and create a competitive differentiation in the market.In addition to Chief Marketing Officers and digital experience professionals, users of our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions include marketing professionals such as search engine marketers, media managers, media buyers, marketing research analysts and customer analytics teams. Customers also include web content editors, web analysts, web marketing managers, email developers and mobile apps developers. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings and our video workflow and delivery technologies. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Marketing business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.Our Digital Marketing segment also contains two legacy enterprise software offerings: our Adobe Connect web conferencing platform and Adobe LiveCycle, an enterprise document and forms platform. Since fiscal 2012, the focus of marketing and licensing these products has been to financial services and government markets, driven by a subset of our enterprise sales force. We have also been focused on migrating some legacy LiveCycle customers to an updated offering with similar capabilities based on our Adobe Experience Manager solution.Digital Marketing StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of marketing solutions and a standard for the way digital advertising and marketing is created, measured, managed, executed and optimized.We believe that our success will be driven by focusing our efforts on making Adobe Marketing Cloud the most comprehensive and integrated marketing solution available. We focus on four key market opportunities: Personalization, Content, Advertising, and Data & Analytics.  Our focus on these opportunities utilizes nine key solutions—Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Audience Manager, Adobe Primetime and the TubeMogul advertising platform.  6Table of ContentsThese solutions provide marketers with key capabilities, such as the ability to:•Combine data across the Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions and third-party data sources, such as customer relationship management, point of sale, e-commerce, advertising, outlets, support systems, and surveys, to create a single view of the consumer;•Deliver consistent personalized customer experiences across channels and on any device;•Use predictive analytics to enable marketers to utilize past marketing program data and success to predict and drive their future success with digital marketing programs;•Access all Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions from one centralized platform and visualize, socialize, and collaborate across teams with the interface;•Interact with creatives through integration with Creative Cloud, enabling content creators and marketers to collaborate and communicate in real time within a cloud-based platform;•Accurately forecast and continually optimize their mix of campaigns across digital media;•Provide robust cross-channel campaign orchestration capabilities utilizing real-time insights, rich customer data and a sophisticated automation and execution platform;•Manage, publish, track, and monetize social programs;•Store, assemble, and distribute digital assets to deliver high-quality brand, campaign, and content experiences;•Build unique audience profiles, allowing marketers to identify their most valuable segments and use them across digital channels;•Easily add, alter, and deploy marketing tags on websites, resulting in consistent page performance and accurate data collection; and•Integrate with a robust network of partners, covering the expansive digital marketing ecosystem.To drive growth of Adobe Marketing Cloud, we also intend to streamline how customers learn about, acquire and deploy Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions. We believe we can accelerate the growth of our business by continuing to build out more direct sales capacity, as well as continuing to enable a rich ecosystem of agencies and SIs who sell, implement and service our solutions. We believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Marketing segment in fiscal 2017 and beyond.Print and PublishingOur Print and Publishing segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web application development and high-end printing. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are well positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for use by this industry.We generate revenue by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices. In fiscal 2016, we maintained a relatively consistent quarterly revenue run-rate with the mature products we market and license in our Print and Publishing business.     7Table of ContentsPRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICESDigital Media OfferingsCreative CloudAdobe Creative Cloud is a subscription offering that enables the creation of rich and engaging digital content by a wide array of creative professionals, hobbyists and knowledge workers. Through Creative Cloud, users can easily explore, create, publish and share their work across devices, the desktop and the web. Members have access to a vibrant creative community, publishing services to deliver apps and websites, cloud storage to easily access their work, the ability to sync their files to virtually any device, collaboration capabilities with team members, and new products and exclusive updates as they are developed.Creative Cloud members can build a Creative Profile which persists wherever they are. A user’s Creative Profile moves with them via Creative Cloud services from app-to-app and device-to-device, giving them immediate access to their personal files, photos, graphics, colors, fonts, text styles, desktop setting customizations and other important assets. Furthermore, Adobe  CreativeSync, powered by Adobe Sensei, synchronizes all files, photos, fonts and other assets used in a particular workflow so that users can begin creative work on any device and seamlessly continue it on another.New Creative Cloud services have been developed and delivered to subscribers to increase the utilization of Creative Cloud capabilities beyond the use of our desktop tools. One of these new services, Adobe Stock, is an online marketplace with over 60 million curated photos, graphics, videos, templates and 3D assets that is deeply integrated with Creative Cloud apps. We believe services such as Adobe Stock will drive higher user interaction with Creative Cloud and create upsell opportunities as users increasingly utilize higher-tiered versions of these services.New mobile apps that run on tablets and smartphones enable connections between Creative Cloud desktop tools and a new family of mobile apps that extend the capabilities of Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro and Lightroom onto mobile devices.  Our mobile apps enable users to create designs with tablets as an integrated part of their creative workflows.We license Creative Cloud to individuals and teams of users through Adobe.com either on a monthly subscription basis or as an annual subscription. Channel partners also license Creative Cloud with annual team subscriptions to small or medium-sized businesses, or to workgroups in enterprises. With larger enterprise customers, our direct sales force utilizes enterprise term license agreements (“ETLAs”), for volume-based agreements often for multi-year terms.PhotoshopAdobe Photoshop CC is the world’s most advanced digital imaging solution. It is used by photographers, designers, animators, web professionals, and video professionals, and is available to Creative Cloud subscribers. Customers can also subscribe to Photoshop CC as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product, or through our Creative Cloud Photography Plan, which is a cloud-enabled offer targeted at photographers and photo hobbyists and includes our popular Photoshop Lightroom product as a companion tool to Photoshop.  We also offer Photoshop Elements, which is targeted at consumers who desire the brand and power of Photoshop through an easy-to-use interface. For tablet and smartphone users, we offer several mobile apps including Photoshop Sketch, Photoshop Mix, Lightroom for mobile and Photoshop Fix—all of which enable sophisticated photo editing and content creation using a touch-based interface on tablet and mobile devices.IllustratorAdobe Illustrator CC is our industry-standard vector graphics solution used worldwide by designers of all types who want to create digital graphics and illustrations for all kinds of media: print, web, interactive, video, and mobile. Illustrator is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product. Users can also utilize mobile apps such as Illustrator Draw to gain access to Illustrator capabilities on their tablets and mobile devices, and sync their work through CreativeSync for use with Illustrator on their desktop.InDesignAdobe InDesign is the leading professional page layout software for print and digital publishing. Our customers use it to design, preflight, and publish a broad range of content including newspapers and magazines for print, online, and tablet app delivery. Customers can create simple or complex layouts quickly and efficiently with precise control over typography, built-in creative tools, and an intuitive design environment. Tight integration with other Adobe software such as Photoshop, Illustrator, and Acrobat enables customers to work productively in print and digital workflows. Customers can also access Adobe digital publishing capabilities from within InDesign to create and publish engaging apps for a broad range of devices, including iOS, Android and Amazon-based devices. 8Table of ContentsInDesign is built for designers, prepress and production professionals, and print service providers who work for magazines, design firms, advertising agencies, newspapers, book publishers, and catalog companies, as well as in corporate design, commercial printing, and other leading-edge publishing environments. Customers using InDesign often use Adobe InCopy, a companion product used for professional writing and editing to enable an efficient collaborative workflow between design and editorial staff. InDesign and InCopy are available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use InDesign as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product.Adobe Premiere ProAdobe Premiere Pro is our powerful, customizable, nonlinear video editing tool used by video professionals. Customers can import and combine virtually any type of media, from video shot on a smartphone to raw 4K and higher resolution footage, and then edit in its native format without transcoding. The user interface includes a customizable timeline and numerous editing shortcuts which enable faster, keyboard-driven editing.With the demands of shorter production schedules and high-resolution digital media formats, real-time performance is crucial to videographers. Premiere Pro utilizes our Mercury Playback Engine to provide the fastest performance solution in the industry. It also supports a vast majority of formats, and customers can now use multiple graphics cards to accelerate render and export times. As part of Creative Cloud, Premiere Pro tightly integrates with other Adobe creative applications. Customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.To address the increase in use of video capture and sharing on mobile devices, we offer Adobe Premiere Clip, which provides users with easy-to-use features to quickly edit and enhance video, and Adobe Capture CC, which provides an easy way to capture and share production-quality lighting and color schemes. We also offer an Elements version of Premiere Pro, which is a powerful yet easy-to-use video-editing software for home video editing. Premiere Elements provides tools for hobbyists to quickly edit and enhance video footage with fun effects and transitions and create custom DVDs for sharing video with friends and family.After EffectsAdobe After Effects is our industry-leading animation and creative compositing solution used by a wide variety of motion graphics and visual effects artists. It offers superior control, a wealth of creative options, and integration with other post-production applications. After Effects is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product.DreamweaverAdobe Dreamweaver CC is our web development solution for designers who code. Dreamweaver has a complete toolset for professionals to design and develop modern, responsive websites. Dreamweaver makes it fast and efficient to build sites from scratch or with built-in templates, preview them in real time on mobile devices and quickly extract web-optimized elements from Photoshop documents directly into projects. Dreamweaver’s fast, flexible coding engine and reimagined interface make it the premiere tool for responsive web design. As part of Creative Cloud, Dreamweaver tightly integrates with other Adobe creative applications like Photoshop, as well as services like Adobe Stock and Typekit. Customers can also subscribe to use Dreamweaver as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product.Adobe AnimateAdobe Animate CC, formerly Adobe Flash Professional, is the leading toolset for professional designers to create interactive animations, and publish them to multiple formats or platforms - including HTML5 Canvas, WebGL, SWF, FLV or even custom platforms. Using Animate, professional designers can reach viewers on virtually any desktop or mobile device. Animate is available to Cre