RISK FACTORSAs previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition.If we cannot continue to develop, market and offer new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer.The process of developing new technology products and services and enhancing existing offerings is complex, costly and uncertain. If we fail to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. If we are unable to extend our core technologies into new applications and platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological trends, the market’s acceptance of our products and services could decline and our results would suffer. Additionally, any delay in the development, marketing or launch of a new offering or enhancement to an existing offering could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. Furthermore, third parties market certain of our offerings and support certain product functionality. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace, to reach new customers and geographies or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results could suffer.We offer our products on a variety of hardware platforms. Consumers continue to shift away from personal computers to tablet and mobile devices. If we cannot continue to adapt our products to tablet and mobile devices, our business could be harmed. To the extent that consumer purchases of these devices slow down, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on other platforms before we offer our products on those platforms, our business could be harmed. Releases of new devices or operating systems may make it more difficult for our products to perform or may require significant costs in order for us to adapt our solutions to such devices or operating systems. These potential costs and delays could harm our business.Introduction of new products, services and business models by competitors or others could harm our competitive position and results of operations.The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards, emerging business and distribution models, disruptive technology developments, short life cycles, customer price sensitivity and frequent new product introductions (including alternatives with limited functionality available at lower costs or free of charge). Any of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upgrade rates, as well as our ability to attract new customers. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to enhance and better integrate our existing products and services, introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, meet changing customer needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments. If any competing products, services or operating systems that are not compatible with our solutions achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in the markets in which we compete. Further consolidations in these markets may subject us to increased competitive pressures and may therefore harm our results of operations. The introduction of certain technologies may reduce the effectiveness of our products. For example, some of our products rely on third-party cookies, which are placed on individual browsers when consumers visit websites that contain advertisements. We use these cookies to help our customers more effectively advertise, to gauge the performance of their advertisements, and to detect and prevent fraudulent activity. Consumers can block or delete cookies through their browsers or “ad-blocking” software or applications. The most common Internet browsers allow consumers to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being accepted by their browsers, or are set to block third-party cookies by default. Increased use of methods, software or applications that block cookies could harm our business. For additional information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report. We may be unable to predict subscription renewal rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. The hosted business model we use in our Adobe Marketing Cloud offerings typically involves selling services on a subscription basis pursuant to service agreements that are generally one to three years in length. Our individual Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription agreements are generally month-to-month or one year in length, ETLAs for our Digital Media  20Table of Contentsproducts and services are generally three years in length, and subscription agreements for other products and services may provide for shorter or longer terms. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and some customers elect not to renew. We cannot provide assurance that our subscriptions will be renewed at the same or higher level of service, for the same number of seats or licenses or for the same duration of time, if at all. Moreover, under certain circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services, our ability to continue to regularly add features and functionality, the reliability (including uptime) of our subscription services, the prices of our services, the actual or perceived information security of our systems and services, the prices of services offered by our competitors, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, reductions in our customers’ spending levels or declines in customer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline.Our future growth is also affected by our ability to sell additional features and services to our current customers, which depends on a number of factors, including customers’ satisfaction with our products and services, the level of innovation reflected in those additional features, the prices of our offerings and general economic conditions. If our efforts to cross-sell and upsell to our customers are unsuccessful, the rate at which our business grows may decline.Subscription offerings and ETLAs could create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition.Our subscription model creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and potential reductions in cash flows. A portion of the subscription-based revenue we report each quarter results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If we were to experience significant downturns in subscription sales and renewal rates, our reported financial results might not reflect such downturns until future periods. Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue from subscription-based or hosted services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our use of ETLAs, a number of factors could affect our revenue, including longer-than-expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue due to multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternative licensing arrangements. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our new businesses or our addition of a subscription-based model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.If we fail to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our results of operations could suffer.We often release new offerings and employ new product and service delivery methods in connection with our diversification into new business models and markets. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. Market acceptance of new product and service offerings will be dependent in part on our ability to (1) include functionality and usability that satisfy customer requirements, and (2) optimally price our products and services in light of marketplace conditions, our costs and customer demand. New product and service offerings may increase our risk of liability related to the provision of services and cause us to incur significant technical, legal or other costs. Market acceptance of such services is affected by a variety of factors, including information security, reliability, performance, customer preference, social and community engagement, local government regulations regarding online services and user-generated content, the sufficiency of technological infrastructure to support our products and services in certain geographies, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage customer data and customer content, consumer concerns regarding data privacy and the enactment of laws or regulations that restrict our ability to provide such services to customers in the United States or internationally. If we are unable to respond to these factors, our business could be harmed.From time to time we open-source certain of our technology initiatives, provide broader open access to our technology, license certain of our technology on a royalty-free basis or release selected technology for industry standardization. Additionally, customer requirements for open standards or open-source products could impact adoption or use of some of our products or services. To the extent we incorrectly predict customer requirements for such products or services, or if there is a delay in market acceptance of such products or services, our business could be harmed. We also devote significant resources to the development of technologies and service offerings in markets where our operating history is less extensive. These new offerings and markets may require a considerable investment of technical, financial, compliance and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper market experience and larger sales, consulting and marketing resources. In addition, the metrics  21Table of Contentswe use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve as significant trends emerge. If we are unable to successfully establish new offerings in light of the competitive environment, our results of operations could suffer. Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions and other adverse changes in general political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both domestically and globally. Uncertainty about the effects of current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers, suppliers and partners makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, more extended sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Our customers include government entities, including the U.S. federal government, and if spending cuts impede the government’s ability to purchase our products and services, our revenue could decline. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition.A financial sector credit crisis could impair credit availability and the financial stability of our customers, including our distribution partners and channels. A disruption in the financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners, on which we rely for operating cash management. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Political instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Certain of our enterprise offerings have extended and complex sales cycles, which can make our sales cycles unpredictable.Sales cycles for some of our enterprise offerings, including our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions and ETLAs in our Digital Media business, are multi-phased and complex. The complexity in these sales cycles is due to a number of factors, including:•the need for our sales representatives to educate customers about the use and benefit of our large-scale deployments of our products and services, including technical capabilities, security features, potential cost savings and return on investment;•the desire of large and medium size organizations to undertake significant evaluation processes to determine their technology requirements prior to making information technology expenditures; •the need for our representatives to spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services;•the negotiation of large, complex, enterprise-wide contracts, as often required by our and our customers’ business and legal representatives;•the need for our customers to obtain requisition approvals from various decision makers within their organizations; and•customer budget constraints, economic conditions and unplanned administrative delays.We spend substantial time and expense on our sales efforts without any assurance that potential customers will ultimately purchase our solutions. As we target our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, these trends are expected to continue and could have a greater impact on our results of operations.  Additionally, our enterprise sales pattern has historically been uneven, where a higher percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur during the final weeks of each quarter, which is common in our industry.  Our extended sales cycle for these products and services makes it difficult to predict when a given sales cycle will close. Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems could lead to reduced revenue or to liability claims.Maintaining the security of our products, computers and networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. Security researchers, criminal hackers and other third parties regularly develop new techniques to penetrate computer and network security measures and, as we have previously disclosed, certain parties have in the past managed to breach certain of our data security systems and misused certain of our systems and software in order to access our end users’ authentication and payment information. In addition, cyber-attackers also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, some of which may be specifically designed to attack our products, systems, computers or networks. Sophisticated hardware and operating system  22Table of Contentsapplications that we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the security of the system or impair a customer’s ability to operate or use our products. The costs to prevent, eliminate or alleviate cyber- or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities are significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful or may be delayed and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. It is impossible to predict the extent, frequency or impact these problems may have on us.Outside parties have in the past and may in the future attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or users of our products or services to disclose sensitive information via illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain physical access to our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems. These actual and potential breaches of our security measures and the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unauthorized dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees, our customers or their end users, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our employees, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. This may result in litigation and liability or fines, governmental inquiry or oversight or a loss of customer confidence, any of which could harm our business or damage our brand and reputation, possibly impeding our present and future success in retaining and attracting new customers and thereby requiring time and resources to repair our brand and reputation. These problems affect our products and services in particular because cyber-attackers tend to focus their efforts on popular offerings with a large user base, and we expect them to continue to do so. Critical vulnerabilities may be identified in certain of our applications. These vulnerabilities could cause such applications to crash and could allow an attacker to take control of the affected system, which could result in liability to us or limit our ability to conduct our business and deliver our products and services to customers. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through engineering more secure products, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and systems, code hardening, conducting rigorous penetration tests, deploying updates to address security vulnerabilities and improving our incident response time, but these security vulnerabilities cannot be totally eliminated. The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins, and we may be unable to implement these measures quickly enough to prevent cyber-attackers from gaining unauthorized access into our systems and products. Despite our preventative efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and systems may harm our reputation or lead to claims against us (and have in the past led to such claims), and could lead some customers to stop using certain products or services, to reduce or delay future purchases of products or services, or to use competing products or services. If we do not make the appropriate level of investment in our technology systems or if our systems become out-of-date or obsolete and we are not able to deliver the quality of data security customers require, our business could be adversely affected. Customers may also adopt security measures designed to protect their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. Further, if we or our customers are subject to a future attack, or our technology is used in a third-party attack, it may be necessary for us to take additional extraordinary measures and make additional expenditures to take appropriate responsive and preventative steps. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenue or margins. Moreover, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from disruptions caused by cyber-attacks or preventative measures could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.Some of our lines of business rely on us or our third-party service providers to host and deliver services and data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, security or privacy breaches, or failures in data collection could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation.Some of our lines of business and services, including our online store at adobe.com, Creative Cloud, Document Cloud, other hosted Digital Media offerings and our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions, rely on hardware and services hosted and controlled directly by us or by our third-party service providers. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, many of our critical applications reside in only one of our data centers, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate its agreement with us, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm and cause us to lose customers and future business, thereby reducing our revenue.We hold large amounts of customer data, some of which is hosted in third-party facilities. A security incident at those facilities or ours may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of customer data. Unauthorized access to customer data stored on our computers or networks may be obtained through break-ins, breaches of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse or other misconduct. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers. Accounts created with weak passwords could allow cyber-attackers to gain access to customer data. Additionally, failure by customers to remove accounts of their own employees, or the granting of accounts by the customer in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former or unauthorized customer representatives. If there were an inadvertent disclosure of customer information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the information  23Table of Contentswe possess on behalf of our customers, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to claims or other liabilities. In addition, such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect or breach of our security could damage our reputation, result in the loss of customers and harm our business.Because of the large amount of data that our customers collect and manage using our hosted solutions, it is possible that hardware or software failures or errors in our systems (or those of our third-party service providers) could result in data loss or corruption, cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant or cause us to fail to meet committed service levels. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be delayed or interrupted by a number of factors, including access to the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or significant variability in visitor traffic on customer websites. In addition, computer viruses or other malware may harm our systems, causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses or other malware could expose us to litigation. We may also find, on occasion, that we cannot deliver data and reports to our customers in near real time because of a number of factors, including significant spikes in customer activity on their websites or failures of our network or software. If we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information in near real time or at all, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, or we could be found liable for damages or incur other losses.Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued new accounting standards for revenue recognition and leasing and while we know they will have an impact, we are still evaluating the extent that these new accounting standards will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Changes resulting from these new standards may result in materially different financial results  and may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls. For additional information regarding these updated standards, see the section titled “Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective” within Part II. Item 8, Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies.”We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition of a company, division, product or technology, each of which involves numerous risks. These risks include:•difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business;•difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies, products or services with our current technologies, products or services;•difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration;•entry into markets in which we have minimal prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and other employees from other opportunities and challenges;•inability to retain personnel of the acquired business;•inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business;•inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;•inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits;•incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; 24Table of Contents•elevated delinquency or bad debt write-offs related to receivables of the acquired business we assume;•increased accounts receivables collection times and working capital requirements associated with acquired business models;•additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•additional costs of bringing acquired companies into compliance with laws and regulations applicable to us as a multinational corporation;•impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of our technologies, products or services;•failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or technology, including, but not limited to, issues with the acquired company’s intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, data back-up and security (including security from cyber-attacks), privacy practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies;•exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including, but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties;•incurring significant exit charges if products or services acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful;•inability to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective;•inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; •the failure of strategic investments to perform as expected or to meet financial projections;•delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product and service offerings; and•incompatibility of business cultures.Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky. If we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated, and in certain circumstances an acquisition could harm our financial position. The success of certain of our product and service offerings depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of and contributors to our online marketplaces for creative content.The success of certain of our product and service offerings, such as Adobe Stock, depends on our ability to continue to attract new customers and contributors to these online marketplaces for creative content, as well as our ability to continue to retain existing customers and contributors. To maintain and grow these businesses, we must regularly add new customers and retain existing customers. An increase in paying customers has generally resulted in more content from contributors, which increases the size of our collection and in turn attracts new paying customers. To attract new customers and contributors and retain existing ones, we rely on the functionality and features of our online marketplaces, the size and content of our collection and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. New technologies may render the features of our online marketplaces obsolete, our collection may fail to grow as anticipated or our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings.In connection with the enforcement of our intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiati