RISK FACTORSAs previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition.If we cannot continue to develop, market and offer new products and services or upgrades or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer.The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain; if we fail to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. Our inability to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms, including the market for mobile, tablet and other IP-connected devices (“non-PC devices”), and to anticipate or respond to technological changes could affect continued market acceptance of our products and services and our ability to develop new products and services. Additionally, any delay in the development, production, marketing or offering of a new product or service or upgrade or enhancement to an existing product or service could cause a decline in our revenues, earnings or stock price and could weaken our competitive position. We maintain strategic relationships with third parties with respect to the distribution of certain of our technologies and the support of certain product functionality. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues would be impaired and our operating results would suffer.We offer our PC application-based products primarily on Windows and Macintosh platforms. To the extent that there is a continued slowdown of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, to the extent that we have difficulty transitioning product or version releases to new Windows and Macintosh operating systems, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on other platforms before we choose and are able to offer our products on these platforms, our business could be harmed. To the extent new releases of operating systems, including for non-PC devices, or other third-party products, platforms or devices make it more difficult for our products to perform, and our customers are persuaded to use alternative technologies, our business could be harmed.Introduction of new products, services and business models by existing and new competitors could harm our competitive position and results of operations.The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards, emerging business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product and service introductions, including limited functionality alternatives available at lower costs or free of charge, short product and service life cycles and price sensitivity on the part of consumers, all of which may result in downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upgrade rates. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and services, introduce new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate and respond to emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes, such as the evolution and emergence of digital application marketplaces as a direct sales and software delivery environment. These digital application marketplaces often have exclusive distribution for certain platforms, which may make it more difficult for us to compete in these markets. If any competing products, services, or operating systems achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in the markets in which we compete. Further consolidations in these markets may subject us to increased competitive pressures and may therefore harm our results of operations. For additional information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.We plan to release numerous new product and service offerings and employ new software delivery methods in connection with our diversification into new business models and markets. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. Market acceptance of these new product and service offerings will be dependent on our ability to (1) include functionality and usability in such releases that address certain customer requirements with which our operating history is not extensive, and (2) to optimally price our products in light of marketplace conditions, our costs and consumer demand. Some of these new product and service offerings could subject us to increased risk of legal liability related to the provision of services as well as cause us to incur significant 38Table of Contentstechnical, legal or other costs. For example, with our introduction of on-demand or cloud-based services and subscription-based licensing models, such as Creative Cloud, we are entering markets that are not yet fully mature. Market acceptance of such services is affected by a variety of factors, including security, reliability, performance, social/community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of laws or regulations that restrict our ability to provide such services to customers in the U.S. or internationally. Additionally, customer requirements for open standards or open-source products could impact adoption or use of some of our products or services. To the extent we incorrectly predict customer requirements for such products or services, or if there is a delay in market acceptance of such products or services, our business could be harmed. From time to time we open source certain of our technology initiatives, provide broader open access to our technology, license certain of our technology on a royalty-free basis, and release selected technology for industry standardization. These changes may have negative revenue implications and make it easier for our competitors to produce products or services similar to ours. If we are unable to respond to these competitive threats, our business could be harmed.We are also devoting significant resources to the development of technologies and service offerings in markets where our operating history is not extensive, including cloud-based computing and non-PC device markets. These new offerings and markets require a considerable investment of technical, financial, compliance and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper experience in the cloud-based computing and non-PC device markets, and greater sales, consulting and marketing resources. If we are unable to successfully establish these new offerings in light of the competitive environment, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. The increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may give rise to risks that could harm our business. To accelerate the growth of our business, we launched our subscription-based Creative Cloud offering in fiscal 2012. As a result, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues in the future from subscriptions to our creative tools and cloud-based offerings. This subscription model prices and delivers our products in a way that differs from the historical pricing and delivery methods of our creative tools. These changes reflect a shift from perpetual license sales and distribution of our software in favor of providing our customers the right to access certain of our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. As our customers’ purchases trend away from perpetual licenses toward subscriptions, we are experiencing and will continue to experience a deferral of revenues and cash received from customers. This cloud strategy requires continued investment in product development and cloud operations, and may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:•if new or current customers desire only perpetual licenses, our subscription sales may lag behind expectations;•the increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may raise concerns among our installed perpetual license customer base;•we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our target pricing, new seat adoption and projected renewal rates, or we may select a target price that is not optimal and could negatively affect our sales or earnings;•our revenues are expected to decline over the short term and may decline over the long term as a result of this strategy;•our shift to a subscription licensing model may result in confusion among our customers, partners, resellers and investors;•our relationships with existing partners that resell perpetual license products may be damaged; and•we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our cloud operations.Revenue from our product and service offerings may be difficult to predict.As previously discussed, we are devoting significant resources to the development of product and service offerings as well as new distribution models where our operating history is not extensive. As our traditional perpetual license business shifts toward our subscription licensing model, our perpetual license revenue may decline more quickly than anticipated. Under a subscription model, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results. Subscription pricing allows customers to use our products at a lower initial cost when compared to the sale of a perpetual license. Although the subscription model is designed to increase the number of customers who purchase our products and services and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable, it creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and reduced cash flows.As a result, a portion of the subscription-based revenue we report each quarter results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our 39Table of Contentsrevenue in future quarters. If we were to experience significant downturns in subscription sales and renewal rates, our reported financial results might not reflect such downturns until future periods. A subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues from subscription- or SaaS-based services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Further, any increases in sales under our subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term if they are offset by a decline in sales from perpetual license customers.Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our introduction of enterprise term license agreements, a number of factors could make our revenue less predictable, including longer than expected sales and implementation cycles, decisions to open source certain of our technology initiatives, potential deferral of revenue due to multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternate licensing arrangements. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our new businesses or our addition of a subscription-based model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.We may be unable to predict subscription renewal or upgrade rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. The SaaS business model we utilize in our Adobe Marketing Cloud offerings typically involves selling services on a subscription basis pursuant to service agreements that are generally one to three years in length, our Creative Cloud subscription agreements are generally month to month or one year in length, and subscription agreements for other products and services may provide for shorter or longer terms. Although many of our service and subscription agreements contain automatic renewal terms, our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and some customers elect not to renew. We cannot provide assurance that these subscriptions will be renewed at the same or higher level of service, for the same number of seats or for the same duration of time, if at all. Moreover, under certain circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We cannot be assured that we will be able to accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, reductions in our customers’ spending levels, or declines in consumer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on less favorable terms to us, our revenues may decline.Our future growth is also affected by our ability to sell additional features and services to our current customers, which depends on a number of factors, including our customers’ satisfaction with our services, the prices of our services and general economic conditions. If our efforts to cross-sell and upsell to our customers are unsuccessful, the rate at which our business grows might decline.Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions and other adverse changes in general political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both domestically and globally. Uncertainty about current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers, suppliers and partners, makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. If economic growth in the U.S., Europe and other countries slows or does not improve, or if the U.S., Europe or other countries in which we do business experience further economic recessions, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition.  There could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our distribution partners and channels. A disruption in the financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Political instability in any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.40Table of ContentsWe may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.We have in the past and may in the future acquire additional companies, products or technologies. We acquired Omniture in October 2009, Day Software (“Day”) in October 2010 and Efficient Frontier in January 2012, as well as other smaller business and asset acquisitions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, each of which involves numerous risks. These risks include:•difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;•difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies, products or services with our current technologies, products or services;•difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration;•entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges;•difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems;•inability to retain personnel of the acquired business;•inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business;•inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;•inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our integration activities;•incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results;•potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•potential impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of our technologies, products or services;•potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company’s intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, data back-up and security (including security from cyber-attacks), privacy practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies;•exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties;•incurring significant exit charges if products or services acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful;•potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective;•potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; •potential delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product and service offerings; and•potential incompatibility of business cultures.41Table of ContentsMergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings.In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved past litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any ongoing or future litigation and disputes. Third-party intellectual property disputes, including those emanating from non-practicing entities, could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products. Any of these occurrences could seriously harm our business.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our source code, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure.Although we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying, access and use of software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. We actively combat software piracy as part of our enforcement of our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business.Additionally, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of our confidential information and trade secrets, including our source code. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs through security breach, attack or otherwise, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors, vendors and partners. However, there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations it may be difficult and/or costly for us to enforce our rights.Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws and regulations could impact our new business models and expose us to increased liability.Our new business models are more highly regulated, including for privacy and data security. We are also expanding these new models in countries that have more stringent data protection laws than those in the U.S. With these new business models, our liability exposure, compliance requirements and costs associated with privacy issues will likely increase. Privacy laws globally are changing and evolving. Governments, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share or transmit personal data. New laws and industry self-regulatory codes have been enacted and more are being considered that may affect our ability to reach current and prospective consumers, to understand how our products and services are being used, to respond to consumer requests allowed under the laws, and to implement our new business models effectively. These new laws and regulations would similarly affect our competitors as well as our customers. Any perception of our practices or products as an invasion of privacy, whether or not consistent with current regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability.On behalf of certain of our customers using some of our services, we collect and store information derived from the activities of website visitors, which may include anonymous and/or personal information. This enables us to provide such customers with reports on aggregated anonymous or personal information from and about the visitors to their websites in the manner specifically directed by each such individual customer. Federal, state and foreign governments and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws regarding the collection, use and disclosure of this information. Our compliance with privacy laws and regulations and our reputation among the public body of website visitors depend on such customers’ adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with such visitors’ expectations. We also rely on representations made to us by customers that their own use of our services and the information they provide to us via our services do not violate any applicable privacy laws, rules and regulations or their own privacy policies. We ask customers to represent to us that they provide their website 42Table of Contentsvisitors the opportunity to “opt-out” of the information collection associated with our services, as applicable. We do not formally audit such customers to confirm compliance with these representations. If these representations are false or if such customers do not otherwise comply with applicable privacy laws, we could face potentially adverse publicity and possible legal or other regulatory action. In addition, some countries are considering enacting laws that would expand the scope of privacy-related obligations required of service providers, such as Adobe, that would require additional compliance expense and increased liability.Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims.Maintaining the security of our products, computers and networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. Security researchers, criminal hackers and other third parties regularly develop new techniques to penetrate computer and network security measures. In addition, hackers also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, some of which may be specifically designed to attack our products, systems, computers or networks. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or users of our products to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our customers’ data. These potential breaches of our security measures and the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unauthorized dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our employees, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability or fines for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. Although these are industry-wide problems that affect computers and products across all platforms, they affect our products in particular because hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems and programs and we expect them to continue to do so. Critical vulnerabilities may be identified in certain of our applications. These vulnerabilities could cause such applications to crash and could potentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system, which could result in liability to us or limit our ability to conduct our business and deliver our products and services to customers. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through engineering more secure products, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and systems, code hardening, conducting rigorous penetration tests, deploying security updates to address security vulnerabilities and improving our incident response time. The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. Despite these efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and systems may lead to claims against us and harm our reputation, and could lead some customers to seek to return products, to stop using certain services, to reduce or delay future purchases of products or services, or to use competing products or services. Customers may also increase their expenditures on security measures designed to protect their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. Further, if we or our customers are subject to an attack, or our technology is utilized in a third-party attack, it may be necessary for us to take certain measures and make certain expenditures to take appropriate responsive and preventative steps. Any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenues. Some of our lines of business rely on us or our third-party service providers to host and deliver services and data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, security or privacy breaches, or failures in data collection could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation.Some of our lines of business and services, including our online store at adobe.com, our Creative Cloud offering, our hosted Digital Media offerings and our Adobe Marketing Cloud offerings, rely on services hosted and controlled directly by us or by third parties. Because we hold large amounts of customer data, some of which is hosted in third-party facilities, a security incident may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of customer data. Unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through break-ins, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers. While our products and services provide and support strong password controls, IP restriction and account controls, their use is controlled by the customer. As such, this could allow accounts to be created with weak passwords, which could result in allowing an attacker to gain access to customer data. Additionally, failure by customers to remove accounts of their own employees, or granting of accounts by the customer in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former or unauthorized customer employees. If there were ever an inadvertent disclosure of personal information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the personal information we possess on behalf of our customers, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims or other liabilities. In addition, such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect or breach of our security could damage our reputation, result in the loss of customers 