BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end-users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators, independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia-Pacific (“APAC”). See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographical information.Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.BUSINESS OVERVIEW For over 30 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, businesses and governments communicate and interact. Across these markets, we help our customers create and deliver the most compelling content and interactive experiences in a streamlined workflow, and optimize those experiences and marketing activities for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anywhere, anytime.While we continue to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media—providing tools, services and solutions that enable individuals, small and medium businesses and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, web designers, app developers and digital media professionals, as well as management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. This is the core of what we have delivered for over 20 years, and we have evolved our business model rapidly to provide these customers with a more complete and integrated workflow across the variety of new devices, formats and business models that continue to emerge.Digital Marketing—providing solutions and services for creating, managing, executing, measuring and optimizing digital advertising and marketing campaigns across multiple channels. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, web analysts, marketing executives, information management executives, and sales and support executives. We process over twenty-five trillion data transactions a year via our SaaS products, providing our customers with analytics, social,  3Table of Contentstargeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, and video solutions. This complements our digital media franchise, bringing together the art of creating and managing content with the science of measuring and optimizing it, enabling our customers to achieve their optimal business outcomes.We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Marketing categories, where our mission is to change the world through digital experiences. By integrating products from each of these two areas of Adobe’s business, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other entity currently offers. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of rich and engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers invest more to engage their constituents digitally.SEGMENTSOur business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Marketing, Digital Media and Print and Publishing. These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around the company’s two strategic growth opportunities described above, placing our Print and Publishing business in a third segment that contains many of our mature products and solutions.This overview provides an explanation of our market opportunities and a discussion of our strategies to address our market opportunities in fiscal 2015 and beyond for each of our segments. See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OVERVIEWDigital MediaDigital Media OpportunityRecent trends in digital communications, including ever increasing data speeds that enable greater usage by consumers of mobile devices and tablets to access online content and services, continue to provide a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Due to the increase in rich media consumed in digital environments and the rise of online social communities, the demand for digital media tools and solutions to create engaging online experiences is higher than ever. Adobe is in a unique position to capitalize on this opportunity by delivering rapid innovation to increase our customer reach, deepen engagement with communities and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on a cloud-based model where our products and solutions are licensed on a subscription basis.The flagship of our Digital Media business is Creative Cloud—a subscription service that allows members to download and install the latest versions of our creative products such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom and Adobe InDesign, as well as utilize other tools such as Adobe Acrobat. Creative Cloud members can also access online services to sync, store, and share files, participate in our Behance community of more than four million creative professionals, publish and deliver digital content via app stores, develop mobile apps, and create and manage websites. Adobe is redefining the creative process with Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and deliver engaging digital content.Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals including graphic designers, production artists, web designers and developers, user interface designers, videographers, motion graphic artists, prepress professionals, video game developers, mobile application developers, students and administrators. They rely on our solutions for publishing, web design and development, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development and document creation and collaboration. End users of our creative tools work in businesses ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies, small and medium-sized businesses and individual freelancers. Moreover, our creative products are used to create much of the printed and online information people see, read and interact with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content. Knowledge workers, educators, hobbyists and high-end consumers also use our products to create and deliver creative content.In addition to Creative Cloud, our Digital Media business offers many of the products included in Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products, and also offers a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe Premiere Elements, Adobe Digital Publishing Suite, Adobe PhoneGap, Adobe Typekit and mobile apps such as Adobe Photoshop Mix,  Adobe Photoshop Sketch and Adobe Premiere Clip that run on tablets and mobile devices. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services”. 4Table of ContentsAdobe’s Digital Media segment also includes our Document Services business, built around our Acrobat family of products, the Adobe Reader and a set of integrated cloud-based document services. For over two decades Adobe Acrobat has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or filled out utilizing our free Adobe Reader. Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and services to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide range of tasks ranging from simple publications and forms to mission-critical engineering and architectural plans. With our Acrobat XI product and its innovative cloud services, we have extended the capabilities of our solution. Users can take advantage of electronic document signing with Adobe EchoSign, complete form management with Adobe FormsCentral, and utilize other features such as Adobe CreatePDF, ExportPDF and Acrobat.com.Digital Media StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of tools and services that allow individuals, small and medium businesses and enterprises to create, publish and monetize their content anywhere.Creative Cloud, a subscription service with attractive monthly pricing, will be a catalyst for revenue growth in the coming years. The monthly subscription pricing model is attractive to users of older versions of our products who desire to use our latest releases and services, but who in the past have been unwilling to upgrade to newer versions due to price sensitivity. Similarly, we are gaining new customers and expect to continue to drive new user adoption of our creative tools business over the next several years outside of our core creative professional targeted market because of the attractive monthly subscription pricing combined with the strong brand of our creative tools and the broad value proposition provided by Creative Cloud. We anticipate that our sustained focus on a subscription model will continue to increase the amount of our recurring revenue that is ratably reported, driven by broader Creative Cloud adoption over the next several years.To accelerate the adoption of Creative Cloud, we have focused on migrating existing users of our creative products from perpetual licenses to the subscription offering, as well as driving new customer adoption. Aspects of this strategy include: focusing future innovation by our engineering teams on delivering new cloud-based functionality, such as Creative Cloud Libraries, Adobe Shape CC and Adobe Brush CC, to enable our customers to use our creative tools and services across a variety of devices in ways that are not possible with previous desktop versions; increasing the value of Creative Cloud by delivering frequent product updates and enhancements to subscribers to address their content creation challenges; using promotions to attract customers to the offering; expanding our go-to-market reach through channel partners to reach new customers; and utilizing Creative Cloud for teams and Creative Cloud for enterprise offerings to drive broad adoption with customers who license our products in volume.As part of our Creative Cloud strategy, we plan to utilize our digital marketing solutions to drive customer awareness of our creative products and improve conversion on our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is increasingly becoming the destination site where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. We utilize affiliate and channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering.In our Document Services business, although Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing, we believe there are tens of millions of users who still need the capabilities provided by Acrobat. We plan to continue to market the benefits of our Document Services solutions to small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world and increase our seat penetration in these markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as expanding into emerging markets, while simultaneously enhancing and building out the delivery of cloud-based document services to our Acrobat and Adobe Reader users. We intend to continue to promote the capabilities of our cloud-based EchoSign solution to millions of Acrobat users and hundreds of millions of Adobe Reader users. EchoSign provides a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and is an easier way for customers to manage their contract workflows. We believe that by growing the awareness of EchoSign in the broader contract delivery and signing market, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution, growing our revenue with this business in the process.Digital MarketingDigital Marketing OpportunityConsumers today increasingly demand personalized content and experiences in their online interactions, across multiple channels and devices. As a result, businesses or any entity with an online presence must figure out how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impacts success. Delivering the best  5Table of Contentsexperience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content. Marketing executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers’ experiences and deliver the greatest return on their marketing spend so they can demonstrate the success of their programs using objective metrics.We believe there is a significant opportunity to address these challenges and help customers transform their businesses. Chief Marketing Officers (“CMOs”), digital marketers, advertisers and publishers are increasingly steering their marketing and advertising budgets toward digital media. As they make this move to digital, our market opportunity is accelerating as customers look for vendors to help them navigate this transition. However, marketing in a digital world is not simply about executing campaigns in each digital channel. Marketers, and entire enterprises, also need to ensure they deliver meaningful experiences to their consumers across both digital and traditional channels and in areas such as sales, support, and product interactions where consumers expect experiences to be personalized.Our Digital Marketing business targets this large and growing opportunity by providing comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management and cross-channel campaign management, as well as premium video delivery and monetization. We deliver these capabilities through our Adobe Marketing Cloud, an integrated offering enabling marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. With its broad set of solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager and Adobe Campaign, as well as real-time dashboards and a collaborative interface, customers of Adobe Marketing Cloud are able to combine data, insights and digital content to deliver a personalized brand experience to their consumers.With the increase in the number of consumers that watch premium video content via the web on PC, tablet and mobile devices, the monetization of video delivery is an emerging opportunity within Adobe Marketing Cloud. To address this opportunity, we have worked closely with video content owners and distributors to develop and deliver Adobe Primetime, a modular platform that enables a more complete workflow to meet our customers’ needs in areas such as video publishing, advertising and analytics. We believe customers using our Primetime solution can drive greater audience engagement, resulting in increased revenue from ad sales and subscriptions, while lowering operating costs.In addition to CMOs and digital marketers, users of our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions include marketing professionals such as search engine marketers, media managers, media buyers and marketing research analysts. Customers also include web content editors, web analysts and web marketing managers. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings and our video workflow and delivery technologies. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Marketing business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.Our Digital Marketing segment also contains two legacy enterprise software offerings: our Adobe Connect web conferencing platform and Adobe LiveCycle, an enterprise document and forms platform. At the beginning of fiscal year 2012 we narrowed the focus of marketing and licensing of these products to financial services and government markets, driven by a subset of our enterprise sales force.Digital Marketing StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of marketing solutions and a standard for the way digital advertising and marketing is measured, managed, executed and optimized.We believe that our success will be driven by focusing our efforts on making the Adobe Marketing Cloud the most comprehensive and integrated marketing solution available. Adobe Marketing Cloud consists of six key solutions-Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager and Adobe Campaign-as well as Adobe Primetime, the industry’s leading online TV delivery platform. Adobe Marketing Cloud provides marketers with key capabilities, such as the ability to:•Combine data across the Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions and third-party data sources, such as customer relationship management, point of sale, email, and survey, to create a single view of the consumer;•Deliver personalized customer experiences across channels and on any device;•Use predictive analytics to enable marketers to utilize past marketing program data and success to predict and drive their future success with digital marketing programs;•Access all Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions from one centralized platform and visualize, socialize, and collaborate across teams with the interface; 6Table of Contents•Interact with creatives through integration with Creative Cloud, enabling content creators and marketers to collaborate and communicate in real time within a cloud-based platform;•Accurately forecast and continually optimize their mix of campaigns across digital media;•Provide robust cross-channel campaign management capabilities utilizing real-time insights, rich customer data and a sophisticated automation and execution platform;•Manage, publish, track, and monetize social programs;•Store, assemble, and distribute digital assets to deliver high-quality brand, campaign, and content experiences;•Easily add, alter, and deploy marketing tags on websites, resulting in consistent page performance and accurate data collection; and•Integrate with over 200-plus partners in 20-plus countries, covering the expansive digital marketing ecosystem.To drive growth of Adobe Marketing Cloud, we also intend to streamline how customers learn about, acquire and deploy Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions. We believe we can accelerate the growth of our business by continuing to build out more direct sales capacity, as well as continuing to enable a rich ecosystem of agencies and systems-integrators who sell and service our solutions. We believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Marketing segment in fiscal 2015 and beyond.Print and PublishingOur Print and Publishing segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web application development and high-end printing. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are uniquely positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for use by this industry.We generate revenue by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices. In fiscal 2014, we maintained a consistent quarterly revenue run-rate with the mature products we market and license in our Print and Publishing business.    PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICESDigital Media ProductsCreative CloudCreative Cloud is a subscription offering which significantly improves how creative professionals create rich and engaging content. It leverages shifts in the industry so that users can easily explore, create, publish and share their work across devices, the desktop and the web. With Creative Cloud membership, users have access to a vibrant global creative community, publishing services to deliver apps and websites, cloud storage to easily access their work, the ability to sync their files to virtually any device, collaboration capabilities with team members, and new products and exclusive updates as they are developed.Creative Cloud members can build a Creative Profile which persists wherever they are.  A user's Creative Profile moves with them via Creative Cloud services from app-to-app and device-to-device, giving them immediate access to their personal files, photos, graphics, colors, fonts, text styles, desktop setting customizations and other important assets.New Creative Cloud services have been developed and delivered to subscribers to increase the utilization of Creative Cloud capabilities beyond the use of our desktop applications.  New services include:  Content, which provides users easy access to stock content; Libraries, an asset management service; and Creative Talent Search, connecting users with job opportunities and hiring managers.  We believe services such as these will drive higher user interaction with Creative Cloud and create upsell opportunities as users increasingly utilize higher-tiered versions of such services.New mobile apps which run on tablets and smartphones enable connections between essential Creative Cloud desktop tools and a new family of mobile apps that extend the capabilities of Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro and Lightroom onto mobile devices.  A new category of “capture” apps was also delivered, enabling users to create designs with tablets and bring them into their creative workflows. 7Table of ContentsWe license Creative Cloud to individuals and teams of users through Adobe.com either on a monthly subscription basis or as an annual subscription. Channel partners also license Creative Cloud with annual team subscriptions to small or medium-sized businesses, or to workgroups in enterprises. With larger enterprise customers, our direct sales force utilizes enterprise term license agreements (“ETLAs”), for volume-based agreements often for multi-year terms.PhotoshopPhotoshop is the world’s most advanced digital imaging software. It is used by photographers, designers, web professionals, and video professionals, and is available to Creative Cloud subscribers. Customers can also subscribe to Photoshop CC as an individual subscription product, or through our Creative Cloud Photography Plan which is an offer targeted at photographers and photo hobbyists and includes our popular Photoshop Lightroom product as a companion tool to Photoshop.  We also offer Photoshop Elements separately, which is targeted at consumers who desire the brand and power of Photoshop through an easy-to-use interface.  For tablet and phone users, we offer several mobile apps including Photoshop Sketch, Photoshop Mix, Lightroom Mobile and more—all of which enable sophisticated photo editing and content creation using a touch-based interface on tablet and mobile devices.IllustratorIllustrator is our industry-standard vector graphics software used worldwide by designers of all types who want to create digital graphics and illustrations for all kinds of media: print, web, interactive, video, and mobile. Illustrator is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.  Users can also utilize mobile apps such as Illustrator Draw (formerly Adobe Ideas) and Illustrator Line to gain access to Illustrator capabilities on their tablets and mobile devices, and sync their work through Creative Cloud services for use with Illustrator on their desktop.InDesignInDesign is the leading professional page layout software for print and digital publishing. Our customers use it to design, preflight, and publish a broad range of content including newspapers and magazines for print, online, and tablet app delivery. Customers can create simple or complex layouts quickly and efficiently with precise control over typography, built-in creative tools, and an intuitive design environment. Tight integration with other Adobe software such as Photoshop, Illustrator, Acrobat, and Adobe Flash Professional enables customers to work productively in print and digital workflows. Customers can also access Adobe Digital Publishing Suite from within InDesign to create and publish engaging apps for a broad range of devices, including iOS, Android and Amazon-based devices.InDesign is built for designers, prepress and production professionals, and print service providers who work for magazines, design firms, advertising agencies, newspapers, book publishers, and retail/catalog companies, as well as in corporate design, commercial printing, and other leading-edge publishing environments. Customers using InDesign often use Adobe InCopy, a companion product used for professional writing and editing to enable an efficient collaborative workflow between design and editorial staff. InDesign and InCopy are available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use InDesign as an individual subscription product.Adobe PremiereAdobe Premiere is our powerful, customizable, nonlinear video editing tool used by video professionals. Customers can import and combine virtually any type of media, from video shot on a phone to raw 5K and higher resolution footage, and then edit in its native format without transcoding. The user interface includes a customizable timeline and numerous editing shortcuts which enable faster, keyboard-driven editing.With the demands of shorter production schedules and high-resolution digital media formats, real-time performance is crucial to videographers. Premiere utilizes our Mercury Playback Engine to provide the fastest performance solution in the industry. It also supports a vast majority of formats, and customers can now use multiple GPU cards to accelerate render and export times. As part of Creative Cloud, Premiere tightly integrates with other Adobe creative applications. Customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.To address the increase in use of video capture and sharing on mobile devices, we offer Premiere Clip, which provides users with easy-to-use features to quickly edit and enhance video.  We also offer an Elements version of Premiere, which is a powerful yet easy-to-use video-editing software for home video editing. Premiere Elements provides tools for hobbyists to quickly edit and enhance video footage with fun effects and transitions and create custom DVDs for sharing video with friends and family. 8Table of ContentsAfter EffectsAfter Effects is our industry-leading animation and creative compositing software used by a wide variety of motion graphics and visual effects artists. It offers superior control, a wealth of creative options, and integration with other post-production applications. After Effects is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.DreamweaverAdobe Dreamweaver is our professional web development software development application used by designers and developers to create and edit HTML websites and mobile apps. Dreamweaver provides a broad range of capabilities for web publishing, enabling online commerce, and providing online customer service and educational content, and includes capabilities for visually designing HTML5 pages, coding HTML5 and application logic. As part of Creative Cloud, Dreamweaver tightly integrates with other Adobe creative applications. Customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.Flash ProfessionalAdobe Flash Professional provides an advanced development environment for creating interactive content which integrates animations, motion graphics, sound, text and additional video functionality. Content built with Flash Professional is deployed via the web to browsers that run Adobe Flash Player. Flash Professional is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.Adobe MuseAdobe Muse is built for designers who want to create and publish HTML websites without writing code. Muse is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, or customers can subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.Edge Tools & ServicesOur Edge web tools and services include: Edge Animate, a web motion and interaction design tool that allows designers to create animated content for websites, using web standards like HTML5, JavaScript and CSS3; Edge Inspect, an inspection and preview tool that allows front-end web developers and designers to efficiently preview and debug HTML content on mobile devices; Edge Code, a code editor, built on the Brackets open source project, optimized for web designers and developers working with HTML, CSS and JavaScript; Edge Reflow, a web design tool to help users create responsive layouts and visual designs with CSS; Edge Web Fonts, a free web font service for using a growing library of open source fonts on websites and in apps; Typekit, a service that gives designers and developers access to a library of hosted, high-quality fonts to use on their websites; and Adobe PhoneGap Build, a service for packaging mobile apps built with HTML, CSS and JavaScript for popular mobile platforms. Our Edge tools and services are available to Creative Cloud subscribers.Digital Publishing SuiteAdobe Digital Publishing Suite is a complete solution that enables individual designers, traditional media publishers, large brand organizations, enterprise customers and ad agencies to transform their print publications into interactive digital reading experiences for tablet devices and ph