BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of software and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our software directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We also distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators, independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. We offer some of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model (also known as a hosted model or “cloud-based” model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. Our software runs on personal computers (“PCs”) and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product.  We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia. Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a website at www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov.BUSINESS OVERVIEW For more than 29 years, innovation in Adobe software and technologies has transformed how individuals, businesses and governments communicate and interact with their constituents. Across the markets and customers we serve, Adobe helps its customers create and deliver the most compelling content and web applications in a streamlined workflow, and optimize those experiences and marketing activities for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into compelling and valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anywhere, anytime.While we continue to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions, we are focusing our greatest business investment in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media—providing tools and solutions that enable individuals, small businesses and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their content anywhere. Our customers include traditional content creators, web application developers and digital media professionals, as well as their management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. This is the core of what we have delivered for over 20 years, but we are evolving rapidly to provide these customers with more complete and integrated workflow to handle the plethora of new devices, formats and business models that are emerging. Digital Marketing—providing solutions and services for how digital advertising and marketing are created, managed, executed, measured and optimized. Our customers include digital marketers, advertisers, publishers, merchandisers, web analysts, chief marketing officers and chief revenue officers. We process over a trillion web transactions a quarter via SaaS, helping our customers with analytics and reporting, multi-channel campaign execution, delivering personalized web experiences and media monetization. This complements our digital media franchise, bringing together the art of creating content with the science of measuring and optimizing it, enabling our customers to achieve optimal business outcomes.3Table of ContentsTo capitalize on the potential in these two market areas, we made several significant changes in key areas of our business during the past year.  We have made investments to increase the deployment of some of our products through new SaaS models, and to augment how we license our software to include a new subscription model for our creative products. We believe these business model changes will allow us to target new users, as well as increase the amount of recurring revenue we generate as a percent of our total revenue—creating the potential for our business to be more predictable.We have also invested in the development of new products that address emerging customer needs in these two market areas and represent new revenue sources. In addition, we made several acquisitions during the past year to broaden the scope of our solutions. We believe the new products we are bringing to market, combined with products and technologies we have acquired, will make our Digital Media and Digital Marketing solutions more compelling to our customers.While we have increased our investments in some products areas, we have similarly reduced our focus on some of our products at the same time. The resulting saved costs from the reduced focus in some product areas is being redeployed as investments into research and development, and into sales and marketing to drive higher growth potential in our two market focus areas.Because of this transformation we have undertaken, as we enter fiscal year 2012 we believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in the emerging Digital Media and Digital Marketing categories where our mission to change the world through digital experiences resonates well with customers.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OVERVIEWEntering fiscal 2011, we organized our products and services into the following businesses: Creative and Interactive Solutions, Digital Media Solutions, Digital Enterprise Solutions, Omniture, and Print and Publishing. We reported our financial results based on these named businesses, with the exception of Digital Enterprise Solutions which we reported in two segments: Knowledge Worker and Enterprise.Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we modified our segments due to changes we made in how we operate our business. We have combined our prior Creative and Interactive Solutions segment with our Digital Media Solutions segment and our Knowledge Worker segment, and named it Digital Media. We also renamed our Omniture segment to Digital Marketing and combined it with our prior Enterprise segment. These changes reflect our focus on the two strategic growth opportunities outlined above. Our Print and Publishing segment, which contains many of our more mature products and solutions, continues to be reported as it was in fiscal 2011.Accordingly, our three fiscal 2012 reportable segments will be Digital Media, Digital Marketing, and Print and Publishing. We will adjust our reportable segments at the beginning of fiscal 2012 to reflect these changes. The following overview begins with a discussion of our results organized by our fiscal 2011 reportable segments. It follows with an explanation of our market opportunities and a discussion of our strategies to address our market opportunities in fiscal 2012 and beyond, organized by our new fiscal 2012 reportable segments.Fiscal 2011 Business Segments ResultsCreative and Interactive Solutions Fiscal 2011 Business SummaryOur Creative Suite 5 (“CS5”) family of products, which first shipped in fiscal 2010, incorporates Adobe technologies used by creative professionals into five Creative Suite editions and thirteen individual creative products, providing tools for the various creative disciplines our customers desire. Entering fiscal 2011, the adoption of CS5 was greater than that of its predecessor, Creative Suite 4 (“CS4”), due to its new feature set as well as an improvement in the general macro-economic environment. This caused overall revenue for CS5 to be stronger than revenue achieved with CS4 for a comparable period of time since their respective release dates.In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we delivered Creative Suite 5.5 (“CS5.5”), the newest release of our creative toolset. This release marked the start of a plan to deliver annual releases for our Creative Suite family of products to address the needs of our customers on a more timely basis than our prior release cadence of eighteen to twenty months. CS5.5 provided numerous feature enhancements, particularly in the areas of digital publishing for tablets, mobile content creation, website creation with new HTML version 5 (“HTML5”) capabilities, and advanced video content creation capabilities.The launch of CS5.5 also included the introduction of a new subscription offering to attract more price-sensitive customers to license Creative Suite products. We believe the subscription option is valued by customers who seek the flexibility and affordability of monthly payments. Adoption of the new CS5.5 subscription offering indicated it attracted new customers to the product, many of whom would otherwise not have licensed it, as well as enticed existing users of older versions of the product to upgrade to the latest version.4Table of ContentsBased on the success of CS5.5, as of the end of fiscal 2011 we experienced an increase in combined revenue for CS5 and CS5.5 when compared to similar periods of availability for CS4 and its predecessor Creative Suite 3 (“CS3”). In addition, CS5.5 maintained the strong run-rate of the Creative Suite business that was established by CS5, achieving one of the goals of moving to annual releases with the product family. Adoption of CS5 and CS5.5 in the education market was also strong during the year, resulting in record education revenue and contributing to the success of these releases.Revenue derived from licensing of our Creative Suite editions equated to approximately 70% of the total revenue generated with the Creative Suite family of products. Licensing of individual Creative and Interactive products such as Dreamweaver, Flash Professional, Illustrator and InDesign also contributed to the success of CS5.5 in fiscal 2011.In the fall of 2010 we introduced a beta of the Adobe Digital Publishing solution, an online, hosted publishing solution that works with InDesign and enables magazine and newspaper publishers to deliver engaging, branded reading experiences of their publications to mobile and tablet devices. In the Spring of 2011, we delivered an update to our Digital Publishing solution and made it generally available to all enterprise customers. Our Digital Publishing solution combines hosted services, flexible e-commerce models to sell single issues and subscriptions directly to consumers through mobile marketplaces, and analytics capabilities based on our Adobe Digital Marketing Suite. Content is created and enhanced through integration with CS5.5 to enable a complete workflow for the creation and delivery of content to mobile device users via our Content Viewer technology. As of the end of fiscal 2011, more than 1,200 published titles have been delivered to online app stores and newsstands, reflecting the success and strong adoption of Digital Publishing solution by our publishing customers. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we also delivered Digital Publishing Single Edition, which can be used by customers that want to publish their content as apps in app stores on an individual and ad hoc basis.To help our customers create new content leveraging advancements in web standards, in the spring of 2011 we introduced a beta release of Adobe Edge, which is a new web motion and interaction design tool that allows designers to bring animated content to websites, using web standards like HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS3. We also delivered a beta release of Adobe Muse, which allows web designers to design and publish HTML websites without writing HTML code. Combined, more than 500,000 downloads of these pre-release tools occurred in fiscal 2011, indicating a strong desire of our customers to utilize these solutions and their capabilities.At our Adobe MAX user conference in October 2011, we announced Adobe Creative Cloud, which is a comprehensive offering of creative services, Creative Suite desktop applications, new content creation touch-based apps for use on tablets, and community features that together, we believe, will redefine the content creation process. The full offering, marketed through a subscription model with attractive monthly pricing, is expected to be available in 2012 and is discussed later in the "Digital Media Market Opportunities and Strategies" section.During fiscal 2011, we advanced the capabilities of our Adobe Flash Player with the release of Flash Player 11. Flash Player is a cross-platform, browser-based application runtime that provides viewing of expressive applications, content, and videos across most browsers and operating systems. New features in version 11 include 3D accelerated graphic support, native 64-bit operating system support, improved software encoding for cameras and protected HTTP dynamic streaming.Adoption of Flash Player during the year remained strong on PC platforms as well as non-PC platforms where it is supported. Due to the frequent downloads of our client technologies such as Flash Player, we generate revenue through OEM relationships with companies where we include their technologies as part of the download offerings of our client technologies on PCs. In fiscal 2011, this download revenue grew when compared to fiscal 2010.In fiscal 2011, we also broadened the reach of our cross-platform client technology named Adobe AIR. The AIR runtime enables developers to deploy standalone applications built with HTML, JavaScript, ActionScript, Flex, Flash Professional, and Flash Builder across platforms and devices - including Android, BlackBerry, iOS devices, personal computers, and televisions.There have been approximately 500 million AIR downloads on PCs, with more than 12,000 apps built using AIR that are available on app stores such as Android Marketplace, Apple App Store, Blackberry App World and Amazon Appstore. In October, we extended the capabilities of AIR to mobile devices with the delivery of AIR version 3. AIR 3 enables 3D accelerated graphics rendering, native extensions for developers to utilize platform-specific features as part of their AIR code, and other platform-specific development features.In the online video and rich media delivery market, we continued innovating to maintain and grow our market leadership position. During the year we achieved strong adoption of Adobe Flash Media Server (“FMS”) version 4.5 which now delivers media to multiple platforms including Apple iOS devices via RTMP and HTTP methods. Based on this adoption, we achieved strong year-over-year revenue for our family of media server products in fiscal 2011.5Table of ContentsIn the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced the acquisitions of TypeKit, for making expressive type available anywhere on the web, and Nitobi, the maker of PhoneGap. Nitobi is the creator and primary contributor to the open source PhoneGap framework, which allows developers to create device native mobile applications using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Both TypeKit and PhoneGap are planned to be integral parts of our Creative Cloud offering in fiscal 2012, which is discussed later in this section.Digital Media Solutions Fiscal 2011Business SummaryEntering fiscal 2011, our Digital Media Solutions business, like our Creative and Interactive Solutions business, benefited from the strength of the CS5 release that occurred in fiscal 2010. In May of 2011, as noted earlier, we delivered CS5.5, the newest release of our creative toolset which included new versions of our video authoring products. Adoption of the new CS5.5 products in the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2011, as well as ongoing adoption of our imaging products helped to drive year-over-year revenue growth in our Digital Media Solutions segment during the entire fiscal year.Throughout fiscal 2011, we maintained our focus on making Photoshop the standard by which all other imaging products are measured. As an essential tool in most creative customer's workflow, many of our customers acquire its capabilities through the purchase of suites of our products, the management of which was handled by our Creative and Interactive Solutions business.With our Photoshop family of products, including Photoshop Extended, Photoshop, and Photoshop Lightroom, we experienced year-over-year revenue growth during fiscal 2011. The new release of Lightroom version 3, used by professional and amateur photographers to manage, enhance and share their photographs, achieved strong adoption in its targeted market.Similarly, our video authoring tools—including Adobe Premiere Pro, After Effects, Adobe Audition, and the suite containing them called Creative Suite Production Premium—achieved strong market share and revenue growth during the year due to new CS5.5 versions of the products and strong execution by our sales and marketing teams to position Adobe as a leader in the overall digital video solutions category.During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we released version 10 of our Adobe Photoshop Elements software which is our digital imaging application targeted for amateur photographers and digital imaging hobbyists. In the same quarter, we released version 10 of Adobe Premiere Elements software which is our video editing software that can be used by hobbyists to enhance and share their digital video memories on DVDs. We also released a software bundle that includes the new versions of  Photoshop Elements and Adobe Premiere Elements to target hobbyists who desire both applications in one affordable package. Adoption of these new releases helped to drive year-over-year revenue growth in this category during the fiscal year.To capitalize on the increased use of smartphones and tablets, we released versions of applications which run on mobile devices, including Photoshop Express, which is a popular application and available for free on devices running Google Android OS and Apple iOS; Adobe Revel (formerly Adobe Carousel), which gives users access to their entire photo library from their Apple devices along with photo-processing features based on Lightroom; and Photoshop Touch—our newest tablet application leveraging the brand and capabilities of our popular Photoshop imaging franchise, which was made available for a fee on Android-based devices in the fall of 2011 and is expected to be released for Apple iOS-based devices in 2012.In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 we announced our acquisition of Auditude, a video ad serving platform that increases the capabilities of our video product solution to enable our customers to deliver and monetize their media to PC, mobile, tablet and TV-screens that are connected to the internet. We believe the addition of Auditude strengthens our offering to help customers monetize their media assets on the web.Knowledge Worker Fiscal 2011 Business SummaryIn fiscal 2011, our Knowledge Worker revenue increased when compared to fiscal 2010 due to strong adoption of our Acrobat X release that launched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Helping to drive this performance was the success of our corporate and volume licensing programs, which allow customers who want to deploy Acrobat to many users to do so through convenient license acquisition and installation means. In addition, an increase in pricing resulted in an increase in the average selling price (“ASP”) of Acrobat during the year and helped to drive the revenue growth achieved.Acrobat X, the tenth major version of our Acrobat family of products, contains new and improved features that improve user productivity, streamline document reviews, collect data in fillable PDF forms, protect PDF documents and other content, and share PDF documents with others. The product also extends the value proposition for knowledge workers to communicate and collaborate more effectively. During the year, we further extended the value of PDF to mobile devices with the release of native Adobe Reader applications for Android and iOS. We also increased our focus on security to guard against malicious use of PDFs and Adobe Reader. This focus included the regular release of product updates to address new security threats that were identified throughout the year, and also increased awareness by our customers to stay more current with the latest release of our products.6Table of ContentsDuring the year, continued adoption of our Creative Suite products has also contributed to broader adoption of Acrobat in the creative professional market. Acrobat Pro is included in four of the five Creative Suite editions and utilization of Acrobat prepress, printing and collaboration functionality is a critical component of creative customer workflows. As such, adoption of Acrobat through the Creative Suite family of products has resulted in a material amount of Acrobat revenue being reported in our Creative Solutions Segment during the year.In the summer of 2011, we announced the acquisition of EchoSign, a provider of on-demand, web-based, electronic signature solutions. The addition of EchoSign, combined with the release of our Adobe FormsCentral solution and Export PDF, enables us to increase the value of document exchange services that we offer to our knowledge worker customers and thus increase the potential addressable market for our knowledge worker offerings.Enterprise Fiscal 2011 Business SummaryIn fiscal 2011, we achieved strong year-over-year revenue growth in our Enterprise business. This performance was driven primarily by the addition and increased adoption of our CQ5 Web Experience Management (“WEM”) solution, which we acquired with our acquisition of Day Software Holding AG ("Day") in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Our market-leading WEM solution combines web content management, digital asset management and social collaboration offerings, and enabled our sales force to target organizations that need to transform their websites by enabling them to create, manage, distribute, and monetize content while optimizing the web, mobile, and social collaboration experience for their customers.Adoption of our Adobe LiveCycle and Adobe Connect products slowed during the year when compared to prior years as we increasingly shifted our focus to marketing the benefits of our WEM solution to targeted enterprise customers. In November  2011, we announced a realignment of our business priorities which resulted in an increased focus on the Digital Media and Digital Marketing  opportunities as we entered fiscal 2012. The core of our digital marketing offering is the combination of our Omniture and Day product lines, and with this business shift, we announced we are focusing our future go-to-market efforts for LiveCycle and Connect on government and financial services markets while scaling back significantly on other targeted markets. For Connect, we will continue to aggressively leverage and sell through our go-to-market partners.Omniture Fiscal 2011 Business SummaryOur Omniture product family processes over one trillion transactions per quarter in a hosted environment for thousands of customers around the world. As we have broadened our investment and go-to-market capabilities with our Omniture products, we have increased our bookings and revenue while maintaining high customer retention rates for our enterprise customers. In fiscal 2011, Omniture revenue grew when compared to fiscal 2010.Our flagship Omniture product, Adobe SiteCatalyst, anchors our analytics business and represented approximately 50% of Omniture revenue reported for fiscal 2011. The percentage of revenue beyond analytics represented by additional types of services which are part of our Digital Marketing Suite has been increasing.  Revenue from these additional services, which include Test&Target, Scene7 and new services such as Adobe SocialAnalytics that was launched in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and the acquisition of Demdex for data management, grew steadily in fiscal 2011, resulting in larger engagements and transactions with our customers. As a result, we increased the number of customers that spend more than $500,000 on an annual basis by more than 25% as compared to fiscal 2010.In March 2011, we began to integrate our Omniture products with our newly acquired Day offering for WEM. Customer interest in a combined offering of Omniture plus Day increased throughout the year, resulting in our decision to substantially grow our investment in the digital marketing market area. As previously discussed, our unique value proposition and successful customer proof points during the year with this combined offering resulted in our decision to focus on the large digital marketing opportunity. This is further discussed in the "Digital Marketing Opportunity" section.Print and Publishing Fiscal 2011 Business SummaryIn fiscal 2011, we maintained  a consistent quarterly revenue run-rate with the mature products we market and license in our Print and Publishing business. During the year we delivered version 3 of our Technical Communication Suite, which is a set of tools for technical publishing, and version 2.5 of our  eLearning Suite, which is a complete set of tools for creating professional eLearning courseware. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and we believe our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are uniquely positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for use by this industry. We generate revenue by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow 7Table of Contentssoftware, printers and other output devices, and in fiscal 2011, we maintained our OEM PostScript revenue through continued innovation with PostScript technologies.Fiscal 2012 Business Segment Market Opportunities and StrategiesDigital Media SegmentDigital Media Market Opportunities and StrategiesWe believe we are at a key inflection point in the history of the internet. Convergence of major trends is occurring which is driving changes in consumer behavior and expectations. These trends include the rise in use of smartphones and tablets, increased internet access speeds, new business models driven by online commerce and app stores, the increase in media and entertainment made available online, the impact of social online communication, and software delivery transitioning from prior PC delivery models to cloud-based services. These trends and changes are having a profound impact on our customers. Adobe customers—large and small—are rethinking its online presence, addressing concerns such as how to make its site more dynamic, how to manage visitors from both PC and non-PC devices, whether to invest in web browser-based applications or create individual mobile apps, and how to transition from legacy content delivery methods to new models which present new revenue streams. For our customers, these challenges create a great deal of complexity in their workflows and cost structures. For Adobe, these challenges and the complexity our customers face are growing the size of the markets we can target. In fiscal 2012 with our newly named Digital Media business, we believe these market conditions present significant opportunities for Adobe to rapidly deliver product innovation, access new market segments, increase engagement with our customers, transition our business to more of a recurring revenue model, and accelerate our revenue growth. Our goal is to be the leading provider of tools and services that allow individuals, small businesses and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their content anywhere.The flagship of our Digital Media business is our Creative Suite family of products. Consisting of thirteen individual products and five suites that contain different configurations of these products, we focus on the needs of creative professional customers, which include graphic designers, production artists, web designers and developers, user interface designers, writers, videographers, motion graphic artists, prepress professionals, video game developers, mobile application developers, students and administrators. They use and rely on our solutions for publishing, web design and development, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development and, document creation and collaboration.  They work in businesses ranging from large publishers,  media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies, small and medium-sized businesses, and individual freelancers.Our Creative Suite family of products is used by creative professionals to create much of the printed and on-line information people see, read and interact with every day, including newspapers, magazines, websites, mobile apps, catalogs, advertisements, brochures, product documentation, books, memos, reports and banners. Our tools are also used to create and enhance visually rich content, including video, animation and mobile content, that is created by multimedia, film, television, audio and video producers who work in advertising, web design, music, entertainment, corporate and marketing communications, product design, user interface design, sales training, printing, architecture and fine arts. Knowledge workers, educators, hobbyists and high end consumers also use our creative products to create and deliver content that is of creative professional quality.We believe the innovation we deliver in the tools and solutions our customers use enables the future of digital media. Our creative solutions are mission-critical to customers such as publishers, advertisers and media companies; they rely on Adobe tools and technologies to create highly compelling content, deliver it across diverse media and devices, and then optimize it through systematic targeting and measurement. For example:•Publishers around the world are striving to embrace the digital age to build distinctive brands, develop sustainable business strategies, achieve greater profitability, and deliver optimized content to fragmented audiences on an expanding array of smartphones, tablets, e-readers, and other devices. Their audiences seek compelling, media-rich experiences, wherever they go, using their preferred devices.•Advertisers face an ever-shifting media landscape. Traditional media are giving way to the emergence of new digital channels such as mobile devices and social networks. Customers have greater choice in where they go for their preferred brands, making it harder to keep audiences engaged. Successful advertising increasingly requires compelling content and greater focus on data and analytics than ever before in order to optimize advertising for improved targeting and higher returns.8Table of Contents•Media companies also face a shifting landscape as traditional media delivery evolves into multiple channels for media companies to deliver and monetize their content. As more premium video content and entertainment is delivered over the internet to PC, smartphone and tablet screens, as well as internet-connected TVs, media companies are looking to create new revenue streams through subscription services and ad-based revenue models to supplement their historical forms of revenue.The challenges facing customers such as these not only exist in how they create and deliver their content, but also in how they manage, measure and optimize their content. Adobe's value proposition extends beyond our historical focus on content creation to other critical aspects of our customers' workflow, with how we can integrate the capabilities of our analytics and web optimization solutions, as well as our WEM solution. These are discussed later in the "Digital Marketing Opportunity" section.Historically, we delivered new releases of our Creative Suite tools every eighteen to twenty months. With the release of CS5.5 in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we moved to an annual release cycle for our products. This change in product release cadence enabled us to deliver more frequent innovation to our customers to address their challenges. It also enabled Adobe to offer a new monthly subscription offering, with the expectation of  more frequent updates to key applications our customers use. The lower monthly fee, as oppo