BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and certain local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia-Pacific (“APAC”). See Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographical information.Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.BUSINESS OVERVIEW For over 35 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments interact. We help our customers create and deliver the most compelling experiences in a streamlined workflow, and optimize those experiences for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anytime, anywhere.While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services, and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media—providing products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, web designers, app developers and digital media professionals, as well as management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate and distribute documents. This is the core of what we have delivered for over 25 years, and we have evolved our business model to provide our customers with a range of flexible solutions that allow them to reach their full creative potential anytime, anywhere, on any device on projects of all types. Digital Experience—providing solutions and services for creating, managing, executing, measuring and optimizing digital marketing and advertising campaigns across multiple channels. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers,  3Table of Contentsmerchandisers, web analysts, marketing executives, information management executives, product development executives, and sales and support executives. In fiscal 2017, we processed 186 trillion data transactions with our analytics products, providing our customers with a robust data platform that can be used to gain insight and optimize digital experiences delivered with our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience offerings, we help our customers more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Experience markets, where our mission is to change the world through digital experiences. By integrating products from each of these two areas of Adobe’s business, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other company currently offers. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue investing in engaging their constituents digitally.SEGMENTSEffective in fiscal 2018, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience (formerly Digital Marketing), and Publishing (formerly Print and Publishing). These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities described above, placing our Publishing business in a third segment that contains some of our mature products and solutions.This overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2018 and beyond for each of our segments. See “Results of Operations” within Part II, Item 7 titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information.MARKET OVERVIEWDigital MediaDigital Media OpportunityRecent technology trends in digital communications continue to provide a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. In today’s world where the velocity of creation and consumption of digital content is ever increasing, customers are looking for a way to meet demand with engaging online experiences. Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on this opportunity by driving modernization and innovation that will accelerate the creative process across all platforms and devices, deepen engagement with communities, and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on cloud-based offerings, which are licensed on a subscription basis.The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud—a subscription service that allows members to use Adobe’s creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktop, web and mobile devices.  Creative Cloud members can download and access the latest versions of our creative products such as Photoshop CC, Illustrator CC, Premiere Pro CC, Lightroom CC, InDesign CC, Adobe XD CC and many more creative applications.  In addition, members can access built-in templates to jumpstart designs and step-by-step tutorials to sharpen skills and get up to speed quickly. Through Creative Cloud, members can access online services to sync, store, and share files across users’ machines, access marketplace, social and community-based features within our Adobe Stock and Behance services, and create apps and websites, all at affordable subscription pricing for cost-sensitive customers. Adobe continues to redefine the creative process with Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and be inspired. A core part of our strategy is Adobe Sensei, a proprietary framework and set of intelligent services for dramatically improving the design and delivery of digital experiences. Adobe Sensei leverages Adobe’s massive content and data assets, as well as its deep domain expertise in the creative, marketing and document segments, within a unified artificial intelligence (“AI”) and machine learning framework to tackle today’s complex creative experience challenges.Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals such as artists, designers, developers, students and administrators. They rely on our products for publishing, web design and development, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development, and document creation and collaboration. End users of our creative products work in businesses ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies, and individual freelancers. Moreover, our creative products are used to create much of the printed and online information people see, read and interact with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content. Knowledge workers, educators, hobbyists and consumers  4Table of Contentsalso use our products to create and deliver content. We have introduced new products, features and services to address emerging categories of content creation such as 3D, augmented reality, virtual reality and user experience design. New solutions include Adobe Dimension, a tool that enables the creation of high-quality, photorealistic 3D images; Adobe XD, a solution for creating user experiences and screen designs as part of designing websites and mobile apps; and Adobe Spark, a set of capabilities that enables anyone to create impactful graphics, web pages and video stories in minutes.Adobe’s Digital Media segment includes our Document Cloud business, built around our Acrobat family of products, the Adobe Acrobat Reader and a set of integrated, cloud-based document services.  Tens of millions of knowledge workers worldwide interact with documents daily.  For over 25 years, Adobe Acrobat has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or filled out utilizing our free Adobe Acrobat Reader. Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and services to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide variety of tasks ranging from simple publications and forms to mission-critical engineering documentation and architectural plans. With our Acrobat product and its innovative cloud services, we have extended the capabilities of our solutions. Users can turn slow, manual signing processes into automated experiences and collect signatures with Adobe Scan, Adobe Sign and Adobe Send & Track.Digital Media StrategyOur goal is to be the leading platform for creativity where we offer a range of products and services that allow individuals, teams and enterprises to design and deliver amazing digital content.We believe there is significant opportunity for growth across all customer segments and expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users in North America and international markets.  We will continue to  seek to deepen our relationship with existing users through meeting their needs holistically and delivering additional features and value.  As appropriate, we plan to optimize our pricing strategy and move our customers to higher priced and better value offerings and continue to employ targeted promotions that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. To target new customers and better address the needs of our existing customers, we will continue to invest in driving innovation to maintain the leadership position that we have established. We have also built a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably.As part of our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize our Experience Cloud solutions to drive customer awareness and licensing of our creative products and services through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is increasingly becoming the destination site where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering.We offer many of the products included in Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products. We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements, Typekit and mobile apps such as Photoshop Mix, Photoshop Sketch, Photoshop Fix, Adobe Capture CC, and Adobe Spark. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services.”In our Document Cloud business, although Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing, we believe there are tens of millions of users who need the capabilities provided by Acrobat and the service capabilities found in Document Cloud. We plan to continue marketing the benefits of our Document Cloud solutions, combined with the low entry point of subscription-based pricing, to individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world. We aim to increase our seat penetration in these markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help drive the business, including the recently announced Adobe Sign partnership with Microsoft. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets, while simultaneously enhancing and building out the delivery of cloud-based document services to our Acrobat and Adobe Acrobat Reader users. We intend to continue promoting the capabilities of our cloud-based document solutions to millions of Acrobat users and hundreds of millions of Adobe Acrobat Reader users. Our Adobe Sign services provide a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and are an easier way for customers to manage their contract workflows. The Adobe Scan app for mobile devices can be used to capture paper documents as images and transform them into full-featured PDFs via Adobe Document Cloud services that can be shared immediately, essentially putting scanning capabilities in the pocket of every person. We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market and continuing to add new capabilities  5Table of Contentsto our Adobe Scan and Sign offerings, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution, growing our revenue with this business in the process.Digital ExperienceDigital Experience OpportunityConsumers today increasingly demand personalized content and experiences in their digital interactions, across multiple channels and devices. As a result, businesses must figure out how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a digital world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impact success. Delivering the best experience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content. Executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers’ experiences and deliver the greatest return on their marketing and IT spend so they can demonstrate the success of their programs using objective metrics.We believe there is a significant opportunity to address these challenges and help customers transform their businesses. The world’s leading brands are increasingly steering their marketing, advertising, and development budgets toward digital experiences.  As enterprises make this move to digital, our opportunity is accelerating as customers look for vendors to help them navigate this transition. Enterprises need to ensure they deliver meaningful experiences to their consumers across digital channels and in areas such as sales, support, and product interactions where consumers expect experiences to be consistent and personalized.Our Experience Cloud business targets this large and growing opportunity by providing comprehensive solutions that include analytics, targeting, advertising optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, premium video delivery and monetization. These comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize digital experiences across channels for optimal performance. We believe the market for Experience Cloud is rapidly expanding, and industry analysts predict more advertising dollars will be spent in digital than in traditional media in the future. Digital Experience StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of solutions that enable our customers to provide exceptional digital experiences.  Our integrated cloud-based solutions enable enterprises to build personalized campaigns, manage advertising, and gain deep intelligence about their customers.  Our content and data platform provides differentiation and competitive advantage. In March 2017, we migrated our hierarchy of solutions under what was formerly known as Adobe Marketing Cloud to our next generation offering referred to as Adobe Experience Cloud.Adobe Experience Cloud consists of the following cloud offerings:•Adobe Marketing Cloud—provides an integrated set of solutions to help marketers differentiate their brands and engage their customers, helping businesses manage, personalize, and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys; includes Adobe Experience Manager (“AEM”), Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Adobe Primetime.•Adobe Analytics Cloud—enables businesses to move from insights to actions in real time by uniquely integrating audiences as the core system of intelligence for the enterprise; makes data available across all Adobe clouds through the capture, aggregation, rationalization and understanding of vast amounts of disparate data and then translating that data into singular customer profiles; includes Adobe Analytics and Adobe Audience Manager. •Adobe Advertising Cloud—delivers an end-to-end platform for managing advertising across traditional TV and digital formats, and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens; combines capabilities from Adobe Media Optimizer (“AMO”) and Adobe’s acquisition of TubeMogul during the first quarter of fiscal 2017.We believe the artificial intelligence and machine learning framework enabled by our strategy with Adobe Sensei enhances the delivery of digital experiences.  By building on existing features such as Enhanced Anomaly Detection, Auto-Target, and other capabilities, we believe Adobe Sensei will increase the value we provide our customers and create a competitive differentiation in the market.To drive growth of Experience Cloud, we also intend to focus on customer engagement, partner leverage, and product differentiation. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, SIs and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. Strategic partnerships, such as the one we have formed with Microsoft, continue to increase our  6Table of Contentsmarket reach. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Experience segment in fiscal 2018 and beyond.PublishingOur Publishing segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web application development and high-end printing. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are well positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for use by this industry.We generate revenue by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices. In fiscal 2017, we maintained a relatively consistent quarterly revenue run-rate with the mature products we market and license in our Publishing business.In December 2017, in order to more closely align our Digital Experience business with the strategic growth opportunity,  we moved two legacy enterprise software offerings from our Digital Experience segment to Publishing: our Adobe Connect web conferencing platform and Adobe LiveCycle, an enterprise document and forms platform. Since fiscal 2012, the focus of marketing and licensing these products has been to financial services and government markets, driven by a subset of our enterprise sales force. We have also been focused on migrating some legacy LiveCycle customers to an updated offering with similar capabilities based on our Adobe Experience Manager solution.COMPETITIONThe markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, new industry standards, evolving distribution models, disruptive technology developments, frequent product introductions, short product life cycles, price cutting with resulting downward pressure on gross margins and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and better integrate our existing products, introduce new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, provide best-in-class information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extend our core technology into new applications and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes.Digital MediaNo single company has offerings that match the capabilities of our Creative Cloud products and services, but we face collective competition from a variety of point offerings, free products and downloadable apps. Our competition includes offerings from companies such as Apple, Autodesk, Avid, Facebook, Corel, Microsoft, Quark and others, as well as from many lower-end offerings. We believe our greatest advantage in this space is the performance and scope of our integrated solutions, which work together as part of Creative Cloud. With Creative Cloud, we compete favorably on the basis of features and functionality, ease of use, product reliability, value and performance characteristics.Professional digital imaging, drawing and illustration products are characterized by feature-rich competition, brand awareness and price sensitivity. Competition in this space is also emerging with drawing and illustration applications on tablet and smartphone platforms. The demand for professional web page layout and professional web content creation tools is constantly evolving and highly volatile. In this area, we face direct and indirect competition from desktop software companies and various proprietary and open source web-authoring tools.We face competition from device, hardware and camera manufacturers as they try to differentiate their offerings by bundling, for free, their own digital imaging software or those of our competitors. Similarly, we face potential competition from operating system manufacturers as they integrate or offer hobbyist-level digital imaging and image management features with their operating systems. We also face competition from smartphone and tablet manufacturers that integrate imaging and video software into their devices to work with cameras that come as part of their smartphone and tablet offerings. In addition, social networking platforms such as Facebook (including Instagram), Snapchat, Twitter and Pinterest, as well as portal sites such as Google, Bing and Yahoo! are becoming a direct means to post, edit and share images, bypassing the step of using image editing and sharing software. Online storage and synchronization are becoming free and ubiquitous. Consumers will be encouraged to use the image and video editing software offered by those storage products, thus competing with our software.In addition, the needs of digital imaging and video editing software users are constantly evolving due to rapid technology and hardware advancements in digital cameras, digital video cameras, printers, personal computers, tablets, smartphones and other  7Table of Contentsnew devices. Our imaging and video offerings, including Photoshop, Lightroom, After Effects and Premiere Pro, face competition from established and emerging companies offering similar products.New image editing applications for mobile devices and tablets with features that compete with our professional tools are also emerging as adoption of these devices grows. Our consumer digital imaging and video editing offerings are subject to intense competition, including customer price sensitivity and competitor brand awareness. We face direct and indirect competition in the consumer digital imaging space from a number of companies whose market software competes with our offerings.The stock content marketplace has significant competition, especially in the microstock segment, where Adobe primarily operates today with our Adobe Stock offering. Key competitors in this segment include Shutterstock, Getty Images and a number of smaller companies.  Adobe Stock’s deep product integration with Creative Cloud and superior reach and relationships with creative professionals around the world differentiate our offerings.The nature of traditional digital document creation, storage, and collaboration has been rapidly evolving as knowledge workers and consumers shift their behavior increasingly to non-desktop workflows. Competitors like Microsoft, Google, Box and Dropbox all offer competitive alternatives to our Document Cloud business for creating and managing PDFs. In addition, other PDF creation solutions can be found at a low cost or for free on the web or via mobile applications. To address these competitive threats, we are working to ensure our Adobe Document Cloud applications stay at the forefront of innovation in emerging opportunities such as PDF document generation, document collaboration and document security, and have developed mobile solutions such as Adobe Scan.As e-signatures are quickly becoming a core element of digital documents, competitors to Adobe Sign such as DocuSign have emerged. Partnerships and integrations between these companies and third-parties create an increasingly competitive landscape in this space.  Digital ExperienceThe markets in which our Digital Experience business unit competes are growing rapidly and characterized by intense competition. Our Experience Cloud solutions face competition from large companies such as Google, IBM, Marketo, Oracle, salesforce.com, SAP, SAS, Verizon, Teradata and others, in addition to point product solutions and focused competitors. Additionally, new competitors are constantly entering these markets. Some of these competitors provide SaaS solutions to customers, generally through a web browser, while others provide software that is installed by customers directly on their servers. In addition, we compete at times with our customers’ or potential customers’ internally developed applications. Of the competitors listed above, no single company has products identical to our Experience Cloud offerings. Experience Cloud competes in a variety of areas, including: reporting and analytics; cross-channel marketing and optimization; online and social marketing; audience management; advertising and real-time bidding technology; video delivery and monetization; web experience management and others.Large software, internet and database management companies have expanded their offerings in the digital experience area, either by developing competing services or by acquiring existing competitors or strategic partners of ours. We believe competitive factors in our markets include the proven performance, security, scalability, flexibility and reliability of services; the strategic relationships and integration with third-party applications; the intuitiveness and visual appeal of user interfaces; demonstrable cost-effective benefits to customers; pricing; the flexibility of services to match changing business demands; enterprise-level customer service and training; perceived market leadership; the usability of services; real-time data and reporting; independence from portals and search engines; the ability to deploy the services globally; and success in educating customers in how to utilize services effectively. We believe we compete favorably with both the enterprise and low-cost alternatives based on many of these competitive factors including our strong feature set, the breadth of our offerings, our focus on global, multi-brand companies, our superior user experience, tools for building multi-screen, cross-channel applications, standards-based architecture, scalability and performance and leadership in industry standards efforts.Creative and digital agencies, as well as SIs, are increasingly investing in acquiring their own digital experience technology to complement their creative services offerings. Adobe may face competition from these agencies and SIs as they come to market with best-of-breed offerings in one or more digital experience capabilities, or if agencies attempt to create a more complete technology platform offering. We believe our creative tools heritage differentiates us from our competitors. We have worked closely with marketing and creative customers for over 30 years. We also believe we have leadership in this space, with current customers representing leading global brands. Our comprehensive solutions extend more broadly than any other company in serving the needs of marketers and addressing this market opportunity; we integrate content and data, analytics, personalization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, video delivery and monetization and social capabilities in our Experience Cloud. Most importantly, we provide a vision for our digital experience customers as we  8Table of Contentsengage with them across the important aspects of their business, extending from their use of Creative Cloud and Document Cloud to how they manage, deliver, measure and monetize their content with our Experience Cloud.PublishingOur Publishing product offerings face competition from large-scale publishing systems, XML-based publishing companies, as well as lower-end desktop publishing products. Similarly, our web conferencing product faces competition from a number of established products from other companies, including Cisco, Citrix and Microsoft. Competition involves a number of factors, including: product features, ease-of-use, printer service support, the level of customization and integration with other publishing system components, the number of hardware platforms supported, service and price. We believe we can successfully compete based upon the quality and features of our products, our strong brand among users, the widespread adoption of our products among printer service bureaus, and our extensive application programming interfaces.In printing technologies, we believe the principal competitive factors for OEMs in selecting a page description language or a printing technology are product capabilities, market leadership, reliability, price, support and engineering development assistance. W