RISK FACTORSAs previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition.If we cannot continue to develop, market and offer new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer.The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain. If we fail to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. If we are unable to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes, the market’s acceptance of our products and services could decline and our results would suffer. Additionally, any delay in the development, production, marketing or offering of a new product or service or enhancement to an existing product or service could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenues, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. We maintain strategic relationships with third parties to market certain of our products and support certain product functionality. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace, to reach new customers and geographies or to grow our revenues would be impaired and our operating results would suffer.We offer our products on a variety of PC, tablet and mobile devices. Recent trends have shown a technological shift from personal computers to tablet and mobile devices. If we cannot continue to adapt our products to tablet and mobile devices our business could be harmed. To the extent that consumer purchases of these devices slow down, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on other platforms before we offer our products on those platforms, our business could be harmed. Releases of new devices or operating systems may make it more difficult for our products to perform or may require significant costs in order for us to adapt our solutions to such devices or operating systems. These potential costs and delays could harm our business.Introduction of new products, services and business models by existing and new competitors could harm our competitive position and results of operations.The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards, emerging business and distribution models, disruptive technology developments, short product and service life cycles, price sensitivity on the part of customers, and frequent new product introductions, including alternatives with limited functionality available at lower costs or free of charge. Any of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upgrade rates, as well as our ability to attract new customers. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and services, introduce new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate and respond to emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments, such as the evolution and emergence of digital application marketplaces as a direct sales and software delivery environment. These digital application marketplaces often have  18Table of Contentsexclusive distribution for certain platforms, which may make it more difficult for us to compete in these markets. If any competing products, services or operating systems (that don’t support our solutions) achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of the competitors in the markets in which we compete. Further consolidations in these markets may subject us to increased competitive pressures and may therefore harm our results of operations. For additional information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this report. If we fail to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our results of operations could suffer.We often release new offerings and employ new software and services delivery methods in connection with our diversification into new business models and markets. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. Market acceptance of new product and service offerings will be dependent on our ability (1) to include functionality and usability that address certain customer requirements where our operating history is less extensive, and (2) to optimally price our products in light of marketplace conditions, our costs and customer demand. New product and service offerings could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as cause us to incur significant technical, legal or other costs. For example, with our cloud-based services and subscription-based licensing models, such as Creative Cloud, we have entered markets that may not be fully accustomed to cloud-based subscription offerings. Market acceptance of such services is affected by a variety of factors, including information security, reliability, performance, social/community engagement, local government regulations regarding online services and user-generated content, the sufficiency of technological infrastructure to support our products in certain geographies, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding data privacy and the enactment of laws or regulations that restrict our ability to provide such services to customers in the U.S. or internationally. If we are unable to respond to these threats, our business could be harmed.From time to time we open-source certain of our technology initiatives, provide broader open access to our technology, license certain of our technology on a royalty-free basis, and release selected technology for industry standardization. Additionally, customer requirements for open standards or open-source products could impact adoption or use of some of our products or services. To the extent we incorrectly predict customer requirements for such products or services, or if there is a delay in market acceptance of such products or services, our business could be harmed. We also devote significant resources to the development of technologies and service offerings in markets where our operating history is less extensive. These new offerings and markets may require a considerable investment of technical, financial, compliance and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper market experience and larger sales, consulting and marketing resources. If we are unable to successfully establish new offerings in light of the competitive environment, our results of operations could suffer. The increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may give rise to risks that could harm our business. Over the past several years, our business has shifted away from pre-packaged creative software to focus on a subscription model that prices and delivers our products in a way that differs from the historical pricing and delivery methods of our creative tools. These changes reflect a significant shift from perpetual license sales and distribution of our software in favor of providing our customers the right to access certain of our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. This cloud strategy requires continued investment in product development and cloud operations, and may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:•if customers desire only perpetual licenses or to purchase or renew only point product subscriptions rather than acquire the entire Creative Cloud offering, our subscription sales may lag behind our expectations;•our cloud strategy may raise concerns among our customer base, including concerns regarding changes to pricing over time, service availability, information security of a cloud solution and access to files while offline or once a subscription has expired;•small businesses and hobbyists may turn to competitive or open-source offerings;•we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our target pricing, new seat adoption and projected renewal rates; we may select a target price that is not optimal and could negatively affect our sales or earnings; or we may have to rely heavily on promotional rates to achieve target seat adoption, which could reduce average revenue per user; 19Table of Contents•the removal of general availability of Creative Suite 6 on a perpetual licensing basis from legacy shrinkwrap and volume licensing channels, which we announced during our second quarter of fiscal 2014, could further reduce our revenues in the short term as our business shifts to subscription revenue that is recognized ratably; and•we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our cloud operations.Subscription offerings and ETLAs create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition.Although the subscription model is designed to increase the number of customers who purchase our products and services and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable, it creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and potential reductions in cash flows.A portion of the subscription-based revenue we report each quarter results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period, but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If we were to experience significant downturns in subscription sales and renewal rates, our reported financial results might not reflect such downturns until future periods. Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues from subscription-based or hosted services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Further, any increases in sales under our subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term if they are offset by a decline in sales from perpetual license customers.Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our use of ETLAs, a number of factors could affect our revenues, including longer than expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue due to multiple-element revenue arrangements and alternate licensing arrangements. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our new businesses or our addition of a subscription-based model prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.We may be unable to predict subscription renewal rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. The hosted business model we utilize in our Adobe Marketing Cloud offerings typically involves selling services on a subscription basis pursuant to service agreements that are generally one to three years in length. Our individual Creative Cloud subscription agreements are generally month-to-month or one year in length, ETLAs for our Digital Media products and services are generally three years in length, and subscription agreements for other products and services may provide for shorter or longer terms. Although many of our service and subscription agreements contain automatic renewal terms, our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and some customers elect not to renew. We cannot provide assurance that these subscriptions will be renewed at the same or higher level of service, for the same number of seats/licenses or for the same duration of time, if at all. Moreover, under certain circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We cannot be assured that we will be able to accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services, the reliability (including uptime) of our subscription services, the prices of our services, the perceived information security of our systems and services, the prices of services offered by our competitors, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, reductions in our customers’ spending levels, or declines in customer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on less favorable terms to us, our revenues may decline.Our future growth is also affected by our ability to sell additional features and services to our current customers, which depends on a number of factors, including customers’ satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our offerings and general economic conditions. If our efforts to cross-sell and upsell to our customers are unsuccessful, the rate at which our business grows might decline.Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims.Maintaining the security of our products, computers and networks is a critical issue for us and our customers. Security researchers, criminal hackers and other third parties regularly develop new techniques to penetrate computer and network security measures and, as we have previously disclosed, certain parties have in the past managed to breach certain of our data-security systems and misused certain of our systems and software in order to access our end users’ authentication and payment information. In addition, cyber-attackers also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, some of which may be specifically designed to attack our products, systems, computers or networks. Sophisticated hardware and operating system applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the security of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security  20Table of Contentsproblems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities are significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions, as well as potential liability to the company. Outside parties have in the past and may in the future attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or users of our services to disclose sensitive information via illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain physical access to one of our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems. These actual and potential breaches of our security measures and the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unauthorized dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our employees, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. This may result in litigation and potential liability or fines for us, or governmental inquiry and oversight, any of which could damage our brand and reputation, possibly impeding our present and future success in retaining and attracting new customers and thereby requiring time and resources to repair our brand image. These problems affect our products and services in particular because cyber-attackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular offerings (such as those with large bases of users), and we expect them to continue to do so. Critical vulnerabilities may be identified in certain of our applications. These vulnerabilities could cause such applications to crash and could allow an attacker to take control of the affected system, which could result in liability to us or limit our ability to conduct our business and deliver our products and services to customers. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through engineering more secure products, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and systems, code hardening, conducting rigorous penetration tests, deploying security updates to address security vulnerabilities and improving our incident response time, but these security vulnerabilities cannot be totally eliminated. The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins, and we may be unable to implement these measures quickly enough to prevent cyber-attackers from gaining unauthorized access into our systems and products. Despite our preventative efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and systems may harm our reputation or lead to claims against us (and have in the past lead to such claims), and could lead some customers to seek to return products, to stop using certain services, to reduce or delay future purchases of products or services, or to use competing products or services. If we do not make the appropriate level of investment in our technology systems or if our systems become out-of-date or obsolete and we are not able to deliver the quality of data security customers require, our business could be adversely affected. Customers may also increase their expenditures on security measures designed to protect their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. Further, if we or our customers are subject to a future attack, or our technology is utilized in a third-party attack, it may be necessary for us to take additional extraordinary measures and make additional expenditures to take appropriate responsive and preventative steps. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenues or margins. Moreover, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from the disruptions of cyber-attacks or preventative measures could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.Some of our lines of business rely on us or our third-party service providers to host and deliver services and data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, security or privacy breaches, or failures in data collection could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation.Some of our lines of business and services, including our online store at adobe.com, Creative Cloud, other hosted Digital Media offerings and our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions, rely on hardware and services hosted and controlled directly by us or by our third-party service providers. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, many of our critical applications reside in only one of our data centers, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate their agreement with us, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm and cause us to lose customers and future business, reducing our revenues.We hold large amounts of customer data, some of which is hosted in third-party facilities. A security incident at those facilities or ours may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of customer data. Unauthorized access to customer data stored on our computers or networks may be obtained through break-ins, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. It is also possible that unauthorized access to customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers. While our products and services provide and support strong password controls, IP restriction and account controls, their use is controlled by the customer. Accounts created with weak passwords could allow cyber-attackers to gain access to customer data. Additionally, failure by customers to remove accounts of their own employees, or granting of accounts by the customer in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former or unauthorized customer representatives. If there were an inadvertent disclosure of personal information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the personal information we possess on behalf of our customers, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to claims or other liabilities. In addition, such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of  21Table of Contentsthe information we collect or breach of our security could damage our reputation, result in the loss of customers and harm our business.Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage on behalf of our customers, it is possible that hardware or software failures or errors in our systems (or those of our third-party service providers) could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be delayed or interrupted by a number of factors, including access to the internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or significant variability in visitor traffic on customer websites. In addition, computer viruses may harm our systems causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. We may also find, on occasion, that we cannot deliver data and reports to our customers in near real time because of a number of factors, including significant spikes in customer activity on their websites or failures of our network or software. If we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information in near real time or at all, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, or we could be found liable for damages or incur other losses.Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions and other adverse changes in general political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both domestically and globally. Uncertainty about current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers, suppliers and partners, makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Our customers include government entities, including the U.S. federal government, and if spending cuts impede the government’s ability to purchase our products and solutions, our revenues could decline. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition.  There could be a number of effects from a financial institution credit crisis on our business, which could include impaired credit availability and financial stability of our customers, including our distribution partners and channels. A disruption in the financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counterparties and could also impair our banking partners on which we rely for operating cash management. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Political instability in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition of a company, division, product or technology, each of which involves numerous risks. These risks include:•difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;•difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies, products or services with our current technologies, products or services;•difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration;•entry into markets in which we have minimal prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions;•disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and other employees from other opportunities and challenges;•inability to retain personnel of the acquired business;•inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business;•inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;•inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our integration activities; 22Table of Contents•incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results;•potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•potential additional costs of bringing acquired companies into compliance with laws and regulations applicable to us as a multi-national corporation;•potential impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of our technologies, products or services;•potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or technology, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company’s intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, data back-up and security (including security from cyber-attacks), privacy practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies;•exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties;•incurring significant exit charges if products or services acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful;•potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective;•potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; •potential delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product and service offerings; and•potential incompatibility of business cultures.Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky. If we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated, and in certain circumstances an acquisition could harm our financial position. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings.In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights, or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights, we have been, are currently and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we have successfully defended or resolved many past lawsuits and other disputes, we may not prevail in the future. Third-party intellectual property disputes, including those initiated by patent assertion entities, could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers, including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products, in some cases to fulfill contractual obligations with our customers. Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our source code, from third-party infringers or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure.Although we vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and attempt to combat unlicensed copying, access and use of software and intellectual property through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. We actively combat software piracy as we enforce our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities continue at historical levels or increase, they may further harm our business. 23Table of ContentsAdditionally, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of our confidential information and trade secrets, including our source code. Despite these measures, as we have previously disclosed, hackers have managed to access certain of our source code and may obtain access in the future. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs through security breach, cyber-attack or otherwise, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could cause us to lose customers and could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our c