 This work presents the first real-world study that explores fully autonomous personalisation in dialogue for long-term human-robot interactions. We developed a barista robot with automatic speech recognition and a rule-based dialogue manager. Similar to a real-world barista, the robot requests the drink order, size and snacks, confirms and allows changes in the order, and takes the customer's name to note the location of the items. We use a multi-modal online user recognition system and a knowledge-base to personalise the interaction by suggesting the most frequent or recent order of the user. We explored the effects of personalisation with a 5-day study in an international student campus with 18 non-native English speakers. Our study showed that while a lower number of users had successful interactions in the personalisation condition, a higher percentage of users enjoyed the interaction, looked forward to the next one, and preferred to interact with the robot as a barista in the real-world. We faced several challenges that negatively affected the user experience, especially due to unreliable speech recognition. Instead, a touchscreen interface can be used for text or image-based interaction, but this can reduce the naturalness of communication. Thus, it is preferable to improve the accuracy of speech recognition by constraining the grammar using templates, with high quality microphones to reduce low quality audio or distance problems, ensuring reliable connections or using onboard systems, and personalising the interaction according to the native language of the user to avoid problems in pronunciation. Also, our study showed that rule-based approaches are not sufficiently flexible or robust for real-world interactions. That is why, we are exploring neural approaches with long-term memory systems. We also discovered that explicit confirmation of user identity is required for overcoming user and system errors in online learning. Most importantly, our results suggested that personalisation mitigates the negative user experience. Hence, it is vital in long-term real-world interactions for saving the day! 