 Recently, our journalists have already told you about such robotic assistants it has named TIMA, and he can help people. There are editions for hospitals; there are editions for digital-cafes. The main task of this robot is to help people, simplify human life in different areas, this is especially relevant now during a pandemic. The main task of such robot TIMA is minimizing contacts. Helping, performing the function of bringing medicine remotely, just not to contact with infected people. Monitoring people by device or computer. Also planned to implant mechanism that will disinfect the room. Recently, the developers have added to robot several new functions, now he can follow a person and even avoid obstacles along the way. - Hello, TIMA! - Listen to you! - Follow me! - I'm starting to move. Voice control from the phone is also available. - Come back! - I'm falling back. Also the robot is equipped with a radar that sees obstacles and walls. Now it is just moving to our operator. He has seen an obstacle. If you just give him a voice command “Move back”, and he sees an obstacle, then he will stop moving further. If such robot TIMA can be useful in the restaurants or medicine sphere, then his brother was created to serve in police. - Attention! Patrol is underway. The idea to create such robot belongs to Denis Romanyuk. Actually, from the start of coronavirus pandemic we decided to create such a small distance between the police and people, , so that they could monitor and patrol the streets remotely. It has LTE and 3G, its own connection. You connect from a mobile phone or computer through a web-service for managing robot. In addition to the real control base, the robot is equipped with several video cameras. This model is equipped with a camera 360 for monitoring the space around, it also has a thermal imager and a telescopic camera. In plans is being finalized the robot so that he could speak. In the future, this communication will be implemented using the microphone installed here and a speaker that uses the entire surface of the robot as a diaphragm. In this case, the inspector's face will appear on the screen instead of a smiling smile. The operator can be connected remotely, and his face will appear here on the screen instead of this smile, and he will be able to make a conversation with the lawbreaker. There will be also some means of struggle with offenders - a tear gas cylinder, a stun gun and a net thrower. In addition, for controlling through smartphone, this robot can even perform the function of transport. Now I’m one of the first person who try new features of this robot in action. Let's go! So, pushing left button and joystick. Well, quite simply. Waiting for its heyday this prototype. Our new elaboration is a mini-tractor, an unmanned mini-tractor, designed for agriculture. It can be controlled remotely, move along a given route autonomously, and carry out the same functions that simple tractor make on the field. Such a robot can replace agricultural machinery and minimize the physical labor of farmers. We understand that rural labor is quite difficult. This unmanned ground vehicle is hybrid, it can move both on electric traction and on gasoline. Therefore, it is assumed in the future that an unmanned vehicle can be charged directly on the field. Harvesting, crops sowing will be cheaper at the cost, because you do not need to spend gas on it, it will take solar energy and work on the field. Sowing plants, loosening the soil and even harvesting is not a complete list of what this unmanned ground vehicle can do. We have some elaborations that we have tested and worked with them on Norwegian projects this is about picking strawberries. Robot can determine by himself that the strawberries have already ripened and pick up the harvest. Besides agricultural purposes, such a robot can perform military tasks, if it is necessary. On TV5 we have already talked about the military inventions of Zaporizhia's engineers, particularly about the robotic platform LASKA. The company is being the part of League of Defense Enterprises of Ukraine. Our inventions are KRAZ SPARTAN, LASKA, Turret, SCORPIO. The directions that we are further developing peaceful directions - for agriculture, for hospitals. I think that in the nearest future we will perfect this robot and will offer it to hospitals. Currently, we are negotiating with the Ministry of Internal affairs regarding the Robot-policeman in order to receive technical specifications from them. We want to believe that such technologies will really be implemented in our daily lives. Valery Kalatan, Alexander Gots, TV5 