 South Korea is aiming to become one of the leading players of the 5G industry,... and it's already made a head start in employing smart manufacturing solutions,... using the technology to remotely control machinery on other continents. Here's Arirang's IT correspondent Oh Soo-young for more on our special series on 5G technology. A forty-ton excavator at a construction site in Germany can be controlled from over 8,500 kilometers away in the South Korean city of Incheon. Earlier this month, Korean construction giant Doosan became the first firm in the world to use the 5G wireless network to remotely control machines on the other side of the planet. Running on-site operations through live video streaming, 3D machine guidance and real time diagnostics... doesn't just save time and money,... but also enables remote handling in dangerous situations,... such as the disposal of toxic materials. "A human worker can step in when necessary, remotely,... and efficiently handle multiple machines at once." Smart factory solutions are one of the main sectors of application for the 5G wireless network,... with data speed reaching 20 times faster than LTE,... and near-zero lag time of one millisecond. It's expected to breathe life into the manufacturing sector,... which makes up one third of Korea's GDP. "According to the start-up ministry, the almost 8-thousand firms with smart factory systems saw a thirty percent increase in productivity last year, while reducing the amount of faulty items by 44 percent. The number of on-site accidents also fell by 22 percent. This local firm in central Seoul has been developing smart displays and glasses based on augmented reality. Real time data feeds through the lenses,... providing guidance throughout the factory with crucial details such as inventory levels or previous instructions. "New employees without much field experience can easily and safely carry out their tasks. Often in factories, workers have their hands full with tools but with the smart glasses on,... they don't need to hold onto any safety manuals, checklists or phones to refer to as they work." The smart glass is part of SK Telecom's 5G factory solution which also incorporates autonomous mobile robots,... and AI monitoring cameras,... into the production line. The government plans to roll out smart factory systems across 30-thousand local companies by 2022. Oh Soo-young, Arirang News. 