 - Let's get started. Welcome again, everyone to join our Chicago Booth Alumni Speaker series. My name is Cindy Zhao. I'm the alumni club president for the Alumni Club of China in Shanghai. We've been hosting this series for a few times. Obviously, tonight is the most popular event because we have 214 people registered for this event. We're gonna have a fantastic speaker. Also tonight we are welcoming about to 50 to 60 non Chicago or Chicago Booth alumni to join us. Welcome everyone. We hope you are safe and healthy wherever you are. Obviously, we have a very international audience. Let me just give everyone a quick introduction of today's speaker, Dr. Dennis Ong. Dr. Dennis Ong is the head of C-V2X at Verizon. Let's hear the explanation what C-V2X means from Dennis. Previously, Dennis served as the chief architect and director at Nokia, where he led the system engineering team for the IoT Impact Platform, which received the best IoT Innovation for Mobile Networks Award at Mobile World Congress. And then at Alcatel-Lucent, he and his solution architecture team collaborated with three startups based in India, Israel, and Silicon Valley in creating a highly scalable analytics and video optimization platform that served 50 million mobile subscribers worldwide. Dr. Ong was a TEDx speaker at different events on topics, including machine learning, 5G, smart city, autonomous vehicle, IoT, and blockchain. Dr. Ong is also a Booth alumni. If I remember correctly, it's from year 2010. And also a PhD in Electrical Engineering from the Ohio State University. He's also adjunct faculty at the Ohio State University. Thank you, Dennis, for joining us from Ohio. I know you have prepared a wonderful presentation. I think now you can start the presentation. And after your presentation, we'll have 15 to 30 minutes of Q&A and discussion. - Thank you. And if anyone have questions during Dennis' speech, feel free to post it in the chat room. We will answer your question after Dennis finish his speech. Please go ahead, Dennis. - Thank you, Cindy. Thank you for the Booth alumni office in Shanghai in China for this opportunity to share with all of you. And I would like to say hello to everyone. Good evening to everyone in China. And maybe so there are some folks from the U.S, from Europe, or from India. I'll just say good morning or good afternoon to all of you. And as Cindy mentioned, I'm Booth alumni and I've been using what I've learned in Booth in my career. And it's always nice to pay forward and to be able to share with you some of the things that I've learned through the years. In the last few years, I've been focusing my effort in 5G, and also in autonomous vehicles. I'm heading the C-V2X, which is seller vehicle to everything, which is using 4G and 5G to help autonomous vehicles and connected vehicles basically to be safer and faster. Today, my talk will focus on 5G, The Fourth Industrial Revolution. And I think all of us, especially folks in China, have experienced lots of momentum in this area. I think for the rest of the world, especially in the U.S, Verizon and also other companies have been investing billions of billions of dollars in this technology. And so today, I would like to share with you some of the exciting insights about this technology, how this technology is going to hopefully move our society forward in positive directions. So as Cindy mentioned, I'm going to present. And so there are also a couple of videos, short videos in the presentation. Hopefully, it will give some insights to all of us. And at the end of the presentation, we'll have Q&A. Because we have quite many participants, and so I think having open discussion probably is difficult in Zoom. So if you have any questions, please go ahead and put it in chat, and Cindy will be a moderator. I think she will look at the chat. And then at the end of the presentation, we'll have a dialogue about the questions. Okay. So I'm going to share my screen now. Let's see. So I hope all of you can see the screen. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The turning points in human history have all been about things. The industrial revolution was about machines. The space age was about science and rockets. (crowd cheers) The information age was about computers and data. (background noise) But now, we're entering the age of humans, truly, magnificently, utterly powered by people. (background noise) Where people will be able to do anything they dream of (upbeat music) Children learning about atoms by seeing inside atoms. (upbeat music) Doctors Performing surgeries from miles away. (upbeat music) The ability to see the invisible. (upbeat music) To play, to learn, to live, to work the way one only dreamed of. Because with 5G ultra wide-band, technology is no longer about what technology can do, but about what people can do with it. (upbeat music) - So I really like the short clip that Verizon has put together for 5G because when you look at 5G, it is really not just about, I would say machines or smart phones. But 5G is about helping us, as humans, to be more productive society. And so it's going to impact not only how we communicate with each other, but how entire society is going to communicate with each other. So for the agenda, first of all, well, we're gonna talk about what is the definition of the fourth industrial revolution? What does that actually mean? The second is what's the outlook for 5G? What does it look like in about five years? As many countries are moving forward with 5G, how does that look like in terms of how many subscribers, how much bandwidth we're using with 5G? So there is some projection. I think this projection is very interesting. And what are the main ingredients of 5G? I use a term currencies. For example like, is it faster? Is it, I would say lower latency? What are the main, I would say, ingredients or advantages of 5G? And I'm going to go into a little bit about building blocks. In addition to about the advantages of 5G, what are the underlying fundamentals that make 5G superior than 4G? And there are a couple of interesting technologies that some of you may have heard about. One of them is called Edge computing. How does Edge computing work with 5G to make, I would say, this industrial revolution much more powerful? And I think some of you may have heard about health concerns of 5G, especially with pandemic. I think we have seen also some damages to cell towers. So are there really health concerns of 5G? And how about security measures? As 5G are going to be more prevalent and more important in our society, how can we make sure that 5G is secure? Use cases, I'm gonna spend actually quite a lot of time on use cases. 5G is not just 1G or 4G. 5G is quite different. The use cases of 5G, use cases means the applications of 5G, will be much wider than 4G. And the last is the future. What our future look like with 5G. So this agenda looks actually very overwhelming. And we could spend hours on this. I'm just focusing on the high level. I want to make sure that all of us have some sense about how 5G is going to impact us, and impact how we relate to others, and how we relate to society. The first is what does that mean, 5G, the fourth industrial revolution? So when we talk about the fourth, that means that there are three previous ones before this industrial revolution. So it's good to look at what industrial revolutions have impacted our society. So the first industrial revolution happens 200, 300 years ago with water and steam power. So what that does is to give us more physical power. But it's actually very limited because we have to be very close to where the source of power is. But the first industrial revolution gave us a lot more physical power than what used to be. The second industrial revolution, and some people call it the electrical revolution, is that with electricity. We can distribute the power to places much far way. We could have conveyor belts. We could have factories that can do a lot of manufacturing for us. The third industrial revolution, somebody call it the electronics or information revolution. This is where we have the silicons. We have computer chips. We have 3G or 4G that we can basically be able to connect to some extent, we're able to have not only physical power, but mental power, we can increase our mental power with computers. And with connectivity, we can have what's called mental power. The fourth industrial revolution is different than the third one. When you look at this, 4G and 5G are quite different because, well, once we go into 5G, we are going to enable high connectivity and real time enterprise. What does that actually mean? What does that mean by connectivity? If you look around, you may say that well everyone in the world almost has cell phone. Do we have high connectivity now? The answer is no. So if you look around, you may have one cell phone, two cell phones, you may have a computer, you may have an iPad. But if you look around in your house, for example, you may have five, 10 devices, which are connected to the internet. When we say high connectivity, we are talking about everything in your home is connected. The door bell, your TV, for example your stove, your refrigerator, your water meter. You may have in-house camera system, everything would be connected. So in a typical house in 4G, you may have five, 10 devices. For 5G, you could have 50, 100, hundred of 50 devices, which are connected all through your house. You may have devices connected to your ceiling, to your roof because they can send information to the factory. For example, like in factories, you have robots in the factory that could have hundreds of connections. In the future, that could be thousands, the tens of thousands of conductivity. So once we go to 5G, the number of connections multiply by 10 hundred times, and the bandwidth that we're talking about increases by 100 times. So it's not just like increasing by a few times, like if it's 3G and 4G. From 4G to 5G, the multiply could be 100 times, higher bandwidth, much more connectivity. So that's why 5G is so much different than 4G. I'm gonna talk more about the use cases. How we're going to 5G. It'll be much more persuasive in society. - [Cindy] Hi, Dennis. Somebody - Hi, Cindy. Hello. I cannot hear you, Cindy. Oh, oh. - [Cindy] Really? - Yes. Can you hear me? - [Cindy] Yes, we can hear you. But - The slides are not very clear. Okay. Shall I continue? - [Cindy] Oh, please, please. - Okay. Yes. Sorry for that. I think for Zoom online is always have challenges. I will repeat what I say. I will not only rely on the slides. So for the outlook, so what do we see gonna happen in the next five years for 5G? What we have seen in the U.S and China and other places, companies or governments have been deploying 5G for about two years. In Verizon, we started 5G in two years ago. And so for many companies that are starting 5G, we see that by 2025, in about five years, 2.6 billion 5G subscribers will be there. That is about almost one-third of the world's population. That's actually fairly amazing. So we'll be seeing, I think we're on track in doing that. About 30% of the population will be covered by 5G in five years. And more traffic, because 5G is going to carry much high bandwidth, so about 45% of the mobile traffic will be on 5G. And in China, that's a projection that 56% of the mobile subscription in China will be 5G. Actually In the U.S, I think the projection is about 70%. So actually in five years in China, U.S, more than half of the subscribers will be on 5G, which means they will be on 5G also 4G, right? So if you see here, in the next few years, there'll be a lot, a lot of, I would say, investment in 5G. And this 5G is not only going to just impact consumers. Many industries will be impacted by 5G. For example, if you're a medical, finance, manufacturing, high-tech, all these industries can take advantage of 5G. So what are the eight currencies of 5G? What are the benefits of 5G? So when we think about 3G to 4G, it is mostly speed. For example like, what 4G enables is that when you, for example, watch video on your smartphone is much better than 3G. So the difference between 3G and 4g is mostly speed. The speed of download. That means you can watch video much faster. But for 5G much more than that. The eight currencies of 5G. The first one is speed, peak data rate. For 4G, it could be up to 100 megabit per second, 200 megabit per second. In 5G, we're talking about the peak data rate to be 10 petabit per second, which is 100 times higher than 4G, 100 times. Imagine what you can do. If you can download that much faster, or upload that much faster, you can enable many new technologies that can never happen. For example, you can upload video from your home, for example, like to YouTube or to Facebook in no time. So that this peak data rate is what people expected, right? When they think about 4G to 5G, they expect the data rate to be much higher. The second that's very important is the mobile data volume is 10 terabyte per second per square kilometer. What this means is that not only individually, you could have much higher data rate. But in a particular area, you could have many more of these connections. For example, I mentioned before in a home, now we may have five to six or 10 devices. In the future, we have 100 devices. What this actually mean, the mobile data volume, is that you could have many, many more of these devices uploading or downloading at very high rate. That means you can support 10 times, 100 times more devices in the same area. The next one is mobility, 500 kilometer per hour. That's about 300 miles per hour. That means that you can support high speed train. They're moving at very, very high velocity. Connected devices, one million connected devices per square kilometer. This is related to the mobile data volume. That means we can now support many, many devices. For example, if you look at a factory, not only the robots have connectivity. All the other equipment, and may be even some of the devices inside the bathroom will be connected. So in the factory, you could have 100 or 200 robots. If you're manufacturing vehicles, the vehicles themselves may have connectivity. So you can have thousands, tens of thousands of stuff like vehicles in the factory that have to be connected. So we can cover a lot more devices per area. Energy efficiency, 10% of current consumption. I think all of us have to charge your phone every day or couple of days, right? Every couple of days. It's very annoying. But think about, if you have to put a pacemaker in your heart, which can connect to outside and send information to your doctor. You don't want to take out or to replace battery in your pacemaker. Energy efficiency is going to be very important. We don't want to change out battery for your water meter. Service deployment time, 90 minutes. What this is is that we can deploy new services or new applications very, very quickly. We can have software-defined application on network that we can deploy services. That means that we can develop applications that can be deployed very, very quickly. Reliability, five nine. This is especially important if we have to help autonomous and connected vehicles to be safe. This is very important if we have to help new care plan to be safer. And the last one is latency, latency means that the time it takes information to go from one place to the other is five milliseconds. Think about if we have to control autonomous vehicles remotely, we want this latency to be very short. Otherwise, the vehicle may hit another vehicle or may hit a pedestrian. So if you look at these eight currencies, it's not only bandwidth, it's not only higher speed, but it can support hundred more times more devices. It's much less energy consumption. It's much more reliable, and the latency is much shorter. With all these eight currencies, we can impact society. We can impact industries. We can impact how we conduct, for example, medicine. Remote surgery would be possible in the future. So I'm going to spend a few minutes talking about what are the building blocks? What are the technologies that enable the eight occurrences? I'm not going to spend a lot of time here because I know that for the attendees, there are people with maybe some kind of technical background. Some of them may not be. So this is more a general introduction of the building blocks of 5G. The first one is called OFBM which is actually (laughs) Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing. That means that I would say the method that we transmit information from the cell tower, from network, to your cell phone. It's more optimized, so that can support much higher bandwidth than what 4G can be. The second one on the right is called a common, flexible framework. This is about how we transmit the information. Now it's much more flexible, so that we can support lower latency. For 4G, the latency could be 20 milliseconds, 40 milliseconds. But now with this flexible framework, the latency could be down to five milliseconds. The second building block is called MIMO, Multiple Input, Multiple Output. If you look at your phone, you cannot see it. There are multiple antennas in your phone. That means that you may actually receive two information at the same time to your phone for 4G, in a way making your receiving of information faster, because you can receive twice as much information if you have only one antenna. So 40 has maybe two antenna, two-by-two, two input, two output. In five G, we could have 100 antennas, 200 antennas. And we have something called beamforming. We can focus the energy on a particular smartphone. We can have much, much faster speed with just beamforming, what is called massive MIMO. We could have 100 input, 100 output in the antenna. In your smartphone app, you could have two-by-two. But in the big antenna, we could have 100-by-100. There's a term that you may be hearing or you may have heard. It's called dynamic spectrum sharing. One thing about wireless, the limitation about wireless is spectrum. Spectrum means that, for example, if you listen to radio, you could tune to a particular FM or AM. Basically, those spectrum is actually very, very, I would say scares and very expensive. So the limitation is that once we go to 5G, where can we find the spectrum to convey all this information using 5G? And that's a technology called dynamic spectrum sharing. And what this does is that we can share 5G with 4G. That means that for example, like if you use a particular spectrum for 4G, now we can use that spectrum for 5G. And if no one is using 4G, we'll dedicate that to 5G. Or if someone in the area is using 4G and 5G, we can share that. So that's why it's called dynamic. The spectrum, for example if you have 100 megahertz for 4G, now that 100 megahertz can be dynamically shared between 4G and 5G. This is actually a good and very, very important, because we don't have enough spectrum just to dedicate to 4G or just to dedicate to 5G. We can share that spectrum between 4G and 5G. So I'm going to talk about these building blocks very quickly. I think for you, maybe that's kinda confusing. I just want to let you know the terms: dynamic spectrum sharing, MIMO, OFDM. At least you have some idea about the terms or the technologies underlying 5G. And there's another term called network slicing, which is actually very important. Network slicing means that we can slice the network. It's like you can slice the network or divide the network into different pieces. For example, you could have one piece of network that support broadband, one piece of the network that support machine to machine, one piece of the network that support mission critical for some autonomous vehicle, and one piece of the network that support future applications, for example like IoT, Internet of Things. And this is important because each piece of the network can have different characteristics. For example, like for the first one, for the mobile broadband, very high speed, you could be downloading video, but just record latency. You don't need to be very low latency. But then for machine to machine, for example, if you are controlling robots, you may not need very high speed, but you need to be very quick. Otherwise, your robot cannot handle the task. So it's low latency. And if you have to control mission critical action, for example, if you have to control autonomous vehicles, you want both very high speed and very low latency because you may be seeing the video from the vehicle, at the same time, you have to control the vehicle. That means that you need to be very, very high speed, so that you can see the video in real time. At the same time, you need very low latency, so that you can control the vehicle. You have to steer the vehicle. And for the future applications, it could be high speed, but extremely low latency. So good thing about slicing is that you can divide your network. Right now on network, it's one-size-fit-all. A network of the 4G network cannot be customized for particular application. For 5G, you can customize the network for your particular application. For example, here, it did not show. For the mission critical, it could be remote surgery. For remote surgery, you definitely want very high speed and very low latency because the doctor, the surgeon on the other side need to see the patient, and need to control the robotic arm. So you need very high speed and extremely low latency. So network slicing in 5G can enable different applications. In addition to network slicing, another important technology is called Edge computing. Edge computing means that we bring the server or the Cloud all the way very close to the, I would say to you. (laughs) If you look at what we have right now for 4G, many of these applications, for example if you want to access a website, if you want to watch a video, you go to 4G and you go to Cloud. Sometimes you have good response. Sometimes you don't. Sometimes you could wait for a second or two before you can see the video. But the thing is, if we are doing remote surgery, you cannot wait for a second. You cannot even wait for half a second. So what's gonna happen is that there'll be Edge compute between you, 5G, and the Cloud. That means that you don't go to the internet. There'll be Edge compute, which is very close to 5G. So you don't have to include the latency or the delay in the Cloud. This Edge compute will be very close to the central office of the mobile operator like China Mobile, and it will have much, much lower latency or delay. So I'm basically done with all these basic technologies of 5G. And there are some questions I'm always being asked in these conferences and talk. How about health concern? I think we have heard about this health concern, not only with 5G, but with 4G. But with 5G and also with the pandemic, some people are thinking that, "Oh, will 5G cause any cancer or cause any issues?" So there are a lot of, I would say, news about this. And we have to understand the basic technology behind 5G. So if you look at 5G, if you look at the chart over here, this is about low frequency and high frequency radio waves. So on the left-hand side, the low frequency is radio, mobile phones, and microwave. So 5G is actually very low frequency in terms of the radiation, what we call non-ionizing. There's a difference between non-ionizing radiation and ionizing radiation. When the radio wave go higher frequency is going to ionize. Ionize means that it can basically damage your skin. But it has to go to autopilot, X-rays, or gamma rays. You have to go much, much, much higher frequency in order to be ionizing. For 5G, if you look at the spectrum over here, 5G is actually much lower frequency than visible light. So when people talk about 5G, okay, they may not realize that the frequency of 5G actually is much, much lower than visible light and even microwave. So it belongs to the non-iodizing radiation. It means that it will not damage our skin. So let me go back. There's, I would say, international organization called International Commission on Non-Iodizing Radiation Protection. This particular commission has done many, many studies, and also reviewed a lot of peer-reviewed articles to understand whether all this radiation have impact on human beings. And in the latest study, all the latest study do not provide evidence of carcinogenic effect, that means cancer effect of radio frequency. That means that the 5G car frequency has the exposure level, they will have consequencing effect. I have seen some study, which basically say that "Oh, the radio waves, for example, 5G or 4G "could have impact on a mouse for example." But if you look at the studies carefully, the radiation level of those studies issued 100 times or 1,000 times more than the levels that we have in our 4G and 5G system. So for example, like if you expose a rat 100 or 1000 times more the radiation. Definitely, you have an impact. Let me say if you're under the sun 24/7, then you have an impact. But our 4G and 5G base stations are all under strict regulations. The power level that they're emitting are actually very low, very low level. So when we look at some of the report, we have to be very careful about how they conduct experiments. So at least for now, based on all the studies that ICNIRP has done, there is no measure, hence the effect on human beings. So I think, I mean, science is science, right? We have to look at evidence instead of like, just hear rumors. I think that's very important for us to understand. The other best security is that if 5G is going to impact our society, not only with our smartphones, but connecting to our homes, connecting all the factories, connecting all the autonomous vehicles. I think one thing that has been asked is, how secure 5G is? Definitely, we know security is actually very important. And also many times hackers are trying to hack into all the systems, right? So in 5G, I'm not going to go in-depth about here. The five areas in 5G, they're very important for security. For example the identity management, how do you make sure that you are the person that I'm talking to? Privacy means that no one is eavesdropping my conversation. Security assurance means that nobody is gonna break into my system. Resilience means that my system can stand up, it's not gonna fail. Communication security is that there'll be encryption. That means that when I communicate with you, I'm pretty sure that it's going to be secure. All these for 5G, there are significant efforts in trying to make sure that all five areas are enhanced. I mean, we know that security measures, security advancement is always difficult. And 5G is putting a lot of emphasis on security measures. So now we are done with the building blocks of 5G, health concerns, and security issues. I'm going to talk about the use cases. The use cases of 5G would be much more than 4G, much, much more than 4G. The first phase of 5G, what Verizon did is that home broadband, where basically we support 5G at home. We started it in 2018, two years ago. The phase two of 5G is mobile. Let me start with smartphones. And, for example, connecting the office to 5G. Phase three of smartphone, which is what we're doing now and beyond, is what is interesting; Cloud AR/VR, autonomous vehicles, remote medical diagnostics, industrial automation; connecting robots, video surveillance; we can connect all the videos and be able to upload the video, smart cities; I think Shanghai, Beijing, many of the cities in China are moving towards to be a smart city. Logistics and supply chain; we connect vehicles, collect information, and sending raw information. So that for example, Alibaba vehicles can route to your house much faster. Intelligent lighting; how can we control all the millions of streetlights in the world? How can we connect them? How can we make them more efficient? So phase three of 5G is not only connecting your smartphones, connecting your offices, but connecting to the world, everything in the world, in society. I'm going to go into some of these use cases in more detail. High bandwidth. If you are in Shanghai, on Beijing, right? Your office will be connecting to some core fiber. You are getting, for example, your internet, right? In the future, you don't have to connect to fiber. Connecting to fiber is actually very expensive because you need to take the role for fiber. You have to maintain them. But in the future, you can connect directly to 5G site. You could have antenna in your building. The antenna is is gonna connect to all the offices in that building. And the antenna is gonna connect to 5G, plus 5G is going to have high bandwidth. It will be able to support many of your offices, and your office could be far away without fiber access. So it will be much faster. It will be as fast as you have now with your fiber. The second one is we can connect at high speed. A lot of increased traffic, we can connect you intelligent video. We can do remote telemedicine. We can basically upstream our video. So basically, we can be able to have extreme mobility. We don't have to be connected. For example we'll be looking at, for example, remote medicine, is that we could have some big hospital in big cities, and we could have remote vehicles or medical vehicles in small cities, and the surgeon can remotely perform surgery. Right now, patients have have to drive from small cities to big cities to do surgery. In the future, surgeons could perform surgery remotely using 5G. So next is low latency. Low latency is the one that I will be focusing on. Is that we can control or help autonomous vehicles to be safer. So I think in China, I've seen that we share, there are lots of companies, they are trying out autonomous vehicles like Baidu. Those vehicles, they can see what they can see with the sensors. But with 5G, 5G can sense a lot further away. For example, if you turn right, you may not be able to see the pedestrian. But there could be veto cameras in the intersection that can send you information, so that autonomous vehicle can avoid hitting the pedestrians. So you can avoid collision avoidance. And also high precision manufacturing, you could remotely control your robots. So with low latency, you can automate, for example, your vehicle fleet, you can automate your factory. (upbeat music) - Verizon's 5G network is now live at the University of Michigan's test bed for driverless cars. It's called Mcity, and today we're unveiling some of the 5G tests we're doing there that will help make our roads safer and potentially save lives. Anthony is there with more. - I'm here at Mcity where we're installing 5G connected cameras at every intersection to identify patterns in car and foot traffic and help avoid accidents. (upbeat music) Verizon 5G ultra wide band is crucial here because when you think about the massive amount of data being transmitted by sensors in cars, streetlights, and traffic lights, as well as the super low latency needed for autonomous cars to stop on a dime, only 5G can transmit all the data faster than the blink of an eye. Verizon is one of Mcity's 11 leadership circle companies, which includes automakers, insurance companies, tech companies, all here to help shape the future of transportation through research and testing. We're here in Mcity's test facility. This is a 32 acre miniature city. It really represents the real world. So this is a great place to test early technologies, understand how vehicle safety applications can be built. And I think technologies like 5G, this is a natural place for them to start before they're deployed in the real world. (upbeat music) - When you consider that about four and a half million people are seriously injured in car accidents every year, and 94% of accidents are caused by human error, using 5G to support driverless cars could potentially save countless lives. (upbeat music) - Actually, this is my favorite video because me and my team are responsible for 5G and autonomous vehicles in Verizon. And I've been to Mcity multiple times with my team and other teams to conduct experiments and pilots with 5G, Edge compute, and also autonomous vehicles. And it's very, very exciting that we all know that maybe in five, 10, 15 years, autonomous vehicles will be a very important part of our lives. And we hope that 5G is going to help that, because as we look at what many of these companies are doing: Baidu, WeShare, WayMode, Tesla, all these companies are doing, they're relying on the sensors in the vehicles. For example, like the lidar, the radar, the cameras. But those are very expensive. The sensors can easily be 20,000 and 30,000 U.S dollars. And imagine when you're buying a vehicle, you don't want to spend so much money on those sensors. And with 5G, we will be able to send information to the vehicle to understand the surroundings, whether it's going to hit someone, is going to hit a vehicle. Hopefully, it's going to be safer, and also reduce the cost of the vehicle. So I'm very excited, me and my team are very excited about what 5G can do in the autonomous and connected vehicle space. And I think there'll be a lot of advancement. And the next one is about massive scale. As I mentioned before that 5G can support maybe one million devices in one square kilometer. That means that in your house, in your factory, in your office, everything can be connected. And the advantage of connectivity is that you can reduce, for example, you can save money in terms of, for example, your energy cost. If you have more sensors in your building, they can help you understand how you can cool or warm your building. You can actually save a lot of money. For example, you can have connectivity to your shoes, for example. They can measure, for example, whether your shoes is doing well. Is helping your feet, for example, if you walk a lot, maybe you can have sensors in your shoes that can test, basically can say that, oh, maybe now I need to replace my shoes. So right now, we don't know yet how they're going to, I would say implement this technology. But if you were thinking about, if all this conductivity is going to be much cheaper, and also you are able to, I would say connect to almost everything in your house, in your factory, how would you be able to make your infrastructure more, I would say efficient? For example, your lighting in the street, it could be much, much more efficient. So a lot of these 5G applications worth to exploring. So we are actually having a lot of collaboration with companies and startups to understand how we can innovate using 5G. Manufacturing is actually very, very important because if you look at some of the companies, they have hundreds and thousands of robots. And you think that, well, what's the use of 5G for robots in factory? Right now, the robots in factories are using fiber. And you may say, why don't they use Wi-Fi, right? Because Wi-Fi doesn't provide the quality of service. Think about if you are using robots to manufacture vehicles, you want the robots to be 100 percent up all the time. You don't want to be at delay. Wi-Fi doesn't really provide the, I would say, the quality of service for factory automation. But with 5G, you could. That means that you could be able to connect the the other robots wirelessly using 5G. That means you can reconfigure your factory much faster using 5G than having a lot of cables in your factory. We're working as well with a company to automate their factory. Let's see the video. (upbeat music) - Verizon's 5G network is now live at Corning's Hickory, North Carolina plant. Today we announced we're teaming with Corning to create the 5G factory of the future. Here we'll test how everything from product inspection to autonomous guided vehicles can work better on 5G. (upbeat music) - Corning and Verizon have always been leaders in telecommunication innovation, and 5G is the future of telecommunications. That future is enabled by optical fiber and cable that Corning produces. (upbeat music) - 5G is crucial in a manufacturing plant to allow for the low latency that's needed for industrial IoT. We have installed a 5G test bed system to start collaborating on different industrial use cases with Corning. Some of the 5G's use cases include computer vision, industrial IoT, and autonomous-guided vehicle enhancement. 5G's high bandwidth will allow for the massive influx of data from the factory floor, making the rest of the factory process efficient. - We really have an opportunity to test 5G capabilities in a real world environment and revolutionize manufacturing, not just for optical fiber and cable, but for the entire manufacturing sector. - The safe 5G can pave the way for the fourth industrial revolution. And when you're on the factory floor, you can see how big of a deal that is. Get ready for the 5G factory of the future. (upbeat music) - So actually we're working with Corning. Cornning is a major supplier of fiber optics to Verizon and to many companies in the world. And so we installed 5G at Corning so that, for example, they can use cameras to inspect the fiber, and be able to see if there are any defects in the fiber optics, and the cameras are connected to the 5G, so that you can basically send video to 5G. Actually, the reason why we need 5G is because if we use 4G, 4G doesn't have enough bandwidth to support all the videos coming from the cameras. And we're also using 5G to control the remote car, like vehicles in the factory itself, the vehicles themselves, they pick and transport material in the factory for. So we're working with many of these innovative companies, manufacturing companies to understand how we could use 5G to automate their factory. So I'm at the end of the talk. I think what you have seen or what I've shared is that 5G is not just about having high speed in your smartphone. 5G is going to have impact on factories, on how we conduct medicine, we can do remote surgery. How we are going to control and help autonomous vehicles and connected vehicles to be safer, how we are going to connect to homes. Our homes will have many, many more devices in our homes than just five to 10 devices that we have right now. So instead of the 5G, the possibility is infinite. Right now, we are at the very edge. We're just deploying the basic technology, 5G, but we are working with many, many startups, many, many companies to understand how we can innovate together using 5G. I think collaborate is the term that I often use in 5G because no one company can, I will say win. We have to collaborate among different industries. So Verizon, or maybe China Mobile, China Telkom have to have to collaborate with other industries in order to utilize or fully utilize 5G in their respective industries. So I hope that this talk is not just, I would say, information only. I hope that no matter what industry you're in, you can think about how 5G can help you or you can use 5G to your advantage to innovate in your particular industry. So I hope this talk is interesting and helpful to you. So I give the time back to Cindy to see if there are questions that we could answer. Hi, Cindy. - [Cindy] Thank you, Dennis. This is a great walk through of what 5G is. As a non-technical person, we keep hearing about 5G in China, never really understood how that would be able to impact our life in the future. And we have some great questions in the chat room. Let's go over them. The first question comes from Gregory. Question is a real global risk of 5G dissemination led by China, and its top tip of the spear, Huawei, is the prevalence of the surveillance state. How can that be prevented while still realizing the full potential of the technology? - Yes. I think I've heard about this a lot about the danger of surveillance, the danger of 5G. To be honest, I'm probably not the right person to answer this because this is more political in nature. So I don't claim myself to be a politician. (laughs) And I would say if you're in the U.S, there are lots of concerns. For example, I can tell you my experience. I used to be in the smart city division in Verizon. And when we worked with like cities, the first question they asked is that we cannot share all the videos from 5G and from our smart cameras. I cannot talk about different cities or different countries in the world. But at least I know that in the U.S, when I work with different cities, they have their own regulations, very strict regulations that I cannot share the information that we connect from a 5G network. Definitely, that is more than just U.S, right? This is a really a global issue that politicians of countries have to address. And I'm not probably the right person to address that here. - [Cindy] And I think that's very fair. (laughs) The next question is about what's the difference between mobility versus rate, both mean fast? - oh, I see. And we had Showi help to answer the question, actually mentioning rate is the throughput or speed of connection, while mobility is the speed at which device can be moving during the handover from one cell to the other. Sounds like we have a few experts on the call. (laughs) - I would imagine. - [Cindy] So you have anything else to add, Dennis. - Yes. Rate, I think sometimes people call like download speed or whatever. It's actually how fast you can receive the information in your cell phone. For example, with 4G, you may see a delay because of watching a video. And with 5G, you may not see it. So that is more the rate or the speed. Mobility is that if you are like sitting in a high speed train, a high speed train running at 300 or 400 kilometer per hour, you are able to receive 5G with no problem. Yeah. - [Cindy] Got it. Thank you. The next question is can Starlink project from Musk replace some functions of 5G? - Yeah, I think this is a very specific question. And because Elon Musk has proposed using a Starlink, which is actually a load rotating satellite. Those satellites are much lower than Reckler satellites. And actually Elon Musk is seeking to get some funding to do that. Not quite sure because I think if you look at this, this is still, I would say conceptual stage. Elon Musk, they have sent one or two satellites. But at large scale is hard to say. So I would say that for specific applications, maybe. But for high density, that's another issue, for high density. The Starlink project, I don't think is intended for big cities like Shanghai or New York because it cannot always support high density. It's more intended for rural areas where you don't have high density. So I think the application of Starlink is quite different than 5G. I will say that those are complementary because 5G cannot cover everywhere. It cannot, it's too expensive. So 5G is mainly going to be focusing on large cities and high dense areas for now. So I think Starlink is complimenting to 5G. - [Cindy] Great. Thank you. Do you see Wi-Fi 6 as competition for indoor industry 4.0 application? - I think Wi-Fi definitely is very interesting application, and I would say obviously is competition. Competition is good. 5G alone cannot solve the world hunger, cannot solve all the issue in the world. So Wi-Fi 6 is going to help. To be honest, I think all of these, I would say technologies are using similar technologies or maybe a little bit different. But the thing is underlying technologies, many of those are the same. So I would say Wi-Fi 6 can solve some of the problems that 5G cannot solve. - [Cindy] Great. Can you elaborate a little bit on smart factory on the basic structure and applications? - Okay. So let me tell you about Corning, for example, or maybe some of the fast rates, some of the companies that we're talking. For example, now like in some of the companies, they may have 100 or 200 robots, and what they have right now, as I mentioned previously, that they connect those robots with cable. First, they want to make sure that it's 100% secure, and also they have the high-speed. But if they have to reconfigure their factory, for example, if they have to manufacture a different vehicle, they may have to reconfigure their factory. It takes weeks and months to reconfigure the factory. And it's a lot of downtime. It's a lot of money lost. So imagine that all the robots are connected wirelessly to 5G. So you don't have all these cables, you can reconfigure your factory much faster. So that is one application that we see. The other one is definitely smart camera. We can use a smart camera to basically do inspection of all your products, for example in the example of Corning, the fiber optics. And actually, we are working with many, many other companies on basically using smart camera or different sensors to inspect their products. If we can connect all this to 5G, it's much easier to configure and much faster to basically to be able to configure your factory. - [ Cindy] Great. What's COVID-19 impact on the overall 5G development in U.S and global? - Well, actually, well, I can speak of Verizon. Actually, we publicly mentioned that we are spending about 16, 17 billion dollars this year for 5G deployment. We're spending more. COVID-19 is not stopping us. Although, I mean, there's impact on, for example, our workers going out to install. But it's not impacting us significantly. We are moving very, very quickly because if you look at COVID-19, almost (murmurs) and there's actually more need for connectivity than that. So COVID-19 actually is pointing to the direction is that If you look at many companies, right? Many companies, they may have the workforce working in the office all the time. But now all of them are working from home. And even if COVID-19 is gone, many of them will stay working at home. So we see that the need for connectivity, the need for high speed, the need for low latency is going to get more and more important in the future. So it's not stopping us. - [Cindy] Cool. How will 5G change the education industry? What change can it bring to the university, especially like University of Chicago? (laughs) - Yeah, I think remote learning, I think like this, right? I think it's going to be more important. As all of us see now, even the university, I think they will have limited enrollment in person teaching in the future. So I think remote learning is going to be important. So I think 5G can bring that even more extent. I think now if you look at remote learning, remote learning using Zoom is actually pretty lame, pretty inefficient. If we can go to VR/AR, virtual reality and augmented reality, our learning will be much more effective. So right now if you're using 4G, for example, Cindy, I think you're using 4G, right? On your smartphone. - [Cindy] True. (laughs) - In the future. If we have five 5G, you will have classes that can do AR/VR, 3D learning instead of 2D learning. Right now, we are doing 2D learning, right? We cannot visualize. For example, like in the future, you could visualize, you're going to have a AR/VR goggles, and you will be able to see 3D in the future. Our sharing will not be only 2D, will be 3D in the future. So our learning can be, for example, think about chemistry, physics. A lot of times, I mean, the way we learn is actually very ineffective. If we can see the atoms in, for example, in chemistry lesson, if we can actually touch it using 3D, that's much more effective than 2D. The education industry, I think is actually fairly far behind in other industry. Because for example like in manufacturing, there's a lot of money involved, so companies are moving very quickly. Education industry, I would say is actually fairly behind in technology. - [Cindy] Has current 5G technology solves the penetration issue, ie. going through the wall without too much loss of signal strengths? - Yeah. I mean, 5G technology cannot solve the penetration issue. That means that, for example, if you have low frequency, you can penetrate walls. If you go to high frequency, like minimum wave like 30 gigahertz, it cannot penetrate walls. For example the difference between sound and light; sound is low frequency, light is high frequency. Sound can penetrate walls, but light cannot. So that is analogy. What we are doing here is that if you remember, I mentioned before something called dynamic spectrum sharing. That means that we don't need to deploy 5G only on high frequency. We can share 4G spectrum with 5G spectrum. In the case 5G spectrum can also ride on low frequency, for example, 600 megahertz or 900 megahertz. That's why dynamic spectrum sharing is very important for 5G. - [Cindy] How operators will deal with 5G network configuration or optimization issues, considering that they are already struggling with 4G networks that have much less parameters? - Yeah. (laughs) That's what we have to deal with. But the thing is, I mean, I think one thing I want to point out is that it's a process. It took operators about 10 years to deploy 4G in reality, because I was actually helping Verizon to deploy 4G 10 years ago or 15 years back. So it's going to take operators about 10 years to really, really fully deploy 5G. We're at the very beginning of 5G. So operators have to learn, where us don't have to learn. So we are learning in this process. So 5G is not going to happen. I was in the habit missing. 5G is happening, but to cover a good terminal area, to provide enough value, it's going to take years to do it. So we are at the very beginning of the journey. So we're all learning. I mean, and a lot of companies: Nokia, Huawei, and Ericsson, and us are doing a lot of AI. So if you look at the industry right now, in the past, it's a lot of manual work. We are basically going to install, for example, the base station, we're going to do this manually. But now we are doing a lot of AI to understand how we can automate a process using AI. So what we are seeing in 4G, hopefully we can, I would say, resolve some of the issues using AI. - [Cindy] Let me share analogy I hear from investor in China. He mention that before there is highway, when people told him, "Oh, you know, in the future, we're gonna build a highway "without any traffic lights." And he remember he felt so excited thinking, "Oh, you know, how wonderful that is?" And now look at what our highway, we are still facing traffic jam. (laughs) - Yes. Especially when you're talking about this, actually I'm involved in the project. So for example, like I think in China and in many places in the world, in the U.S, there are lots of traffic jams and congestion in big cities. What we're doing is actually we're thinking about actually going to implement something like using 5G to automate the vehicles in the highway, to automate traffic. For example, we could have for example in a cycling highway, we could have six autonomous vehicles. And those vehicles actually could serve as a traffic light on the highway. That means that they can guide the vehicles through the highway. And in some of the studies, if you do that, you can increase the capacity of highway by 30%. So there are lots of interesting and very innovative ideas, how we can solve problems that we can not solve right now using 4G. - [Cindy] Great. Do you mind explaining a little bit more on dynamic spectrum sharing? I think some people might not really understand it because we don't have technical background. It sounds like such a technical term. - Sure. Yeah. I'm sorry that I go over that very quickly. So think about this, for example in China or in U.S, the government may allocate us some spectrum radio frequency for 4G, for example 900 megahertz. It's like when you listen to a radio, you do tune to a particular station. For example, the government has allocated 900 megahertz for 4G. So if they have to deploy 5G, they have to find maybe some other spectrum, like maybe 1.5 gigahertz. But those are very limited because people have been using it; satellite companies, military, all of them have been using them, right? So how do we have, I would say spectrum or frequency for 5G? So one idea is to share. So for example 4G is using 900 megahertz. Now 5G comes along and say, "Oh, well, can we share?" For example, like in a vehicle, think about like a vehicle. 4G is that vehicle, right? So 5G comes along and say, "Okay, can you share a seat with me?" If you have no passenger here, I can share a seat. So that's what it's doing. I'm not going to buy another vehicle. I'm just gona share what you have in 4G. So that's what is dynamic spectrum sharing. And the reason why it's dynamic is that for example you have a vehicle with two seats. For example in 4G if you are using two seats, you can spare two seats for 5G. If you're using one seat, you can spare three seats for 5G. If you're using all the seats, you have no seats for 5G. That means you dynamically share depending on the capacity that 4G and 5G has. So that's why its dynamic spectrum sharing. This is actually very important to be able to utilize all the spectrum for 4G and 5G. Hello, Cindy. I cannot hear you. (laughs) Cindy, I still cannot hear you. - [Cindy] Oh. - Oh yeah. I can hear you now. (laughs) - [Cindy] Okay. Let me go over the question again. - I cannot hear you, Cindy. Maybe I can look at the chat. - [Cindy] Yes, please. - Okay. Yeah. I think one of them is about what are the business and political implications we should be aware if we want to need to work with 5G that are limited to China. 5G, I mean, I think the person who wrote this actually knows about 3GPP and all this stuff. So as all of us aware, 5G is not a localized standard. It's not a standard particular to a country. It's based on call 3GPP. Is a global standard that all the companies, many of these companies come together to work on it. So the standards are the same. And we, for example at Verizon, we work with almost all the telephone companies in the world to do global roaming. So this is not new. Since 2G, 3G, and 4G, this is not new. So for 5G is to same. We we're going to follow the same protocol that work with different operators for global roaming So the business and political implications, I think what's going to happen is that, can someone please unmute if you know (murmur) Lenora, can you make sure that, yeah, it's quite. And I think the implication is that the difference between 4G and 5G is that it's going to impact many, many industries. 4G, it does, but it's not to the extent. So in terms of business. Political, I cannot tell about political because I'm not in the aspect. For business, if if you are in business, for example, if you're working with for example a large car company, for example, which I'm dealing with them all the time. I have regular meetings with car companies. And they have global operations. And what they want to do is that they want to standardize on 5G. That is the, I will say, the implication. For example, they want to work with the same company on 5G, for example, the same standard so that when they manufacture the vehicles, it can work in China. It can work in U.S, or at least for 5G connectivity. They don't want to customize that for China, customize for Europe, customize for India, customize for U.S. They want to make sure that in the future, this is going to be a global product, global solution. So I think what's gonna happen in the future, many of these big companies which are global, they want to make sure that the 5G that they implement, basically can be applied globally in every country. Okay. I think that's actually interesting. How will 5G affect future human capital? Will it create redundancy, and which industries will be highly affected? The thing is actually, I think this is not only 5G, right? I think as we talk about technologies: 5G, artificial intelligence, AI, all these have impact on human capital. I think the way I look at it is that 5G by itself is not going to, I would say, reduce or create redundancy. I think the more important thing is that we have to take advantage of 5G, the same as when we take advantage of AI, right? For example if you look at autonomous vehicles, people think about AI or 5G can help autonomous vehicles to be autonomous very soon, but it's taking forever. And as human beings, I think we can take advantage of 5G. I think the way I look at is that, and the reason I'm giving this kind of talk is that all of us here can take advantage of 5G in our respective industries or disciplines. For example, like one question about education, right? One question about manufacturing. You will not be redundant. If you can bring value to your company, for example, in manufacturing, if you can say that, "Okay, in the past, we need two months "to reconfigure our factory "to manufacture a different vehicle." Now it's going to take two weeks because we're going to have all the robots connected with 5G. You are not going to be redundant because you are going to be a value to the company because you see the future. So the way I look at it is that when we look at all these industrial revolution, I would say is going to create new industries, new capabilities. But it will make some of our skill set obsolete. So as human beings, I think we have to learn how to take advantage of those. Some of the political questions I really cannot answer. Let me see. Do you see the future unicorns will be companies that have innovation leveraging on 5G? Do you see this happen in the next five years or longer term stand-alone? Okay. This one I can answer. I'm working actually with many startups and many industries on 5G. To be honest, I mean, right now is still very early, even in China, right? In China and U.S. Because if you look at the deployment of 5G, although it's moving up, but if you look at the timeframe, it will be the next few years, right? Five years before 5G will be actually making very meaningful impact to a lot of industries. So I see that, and I'm working with many unicorns actually that want to take advantage of 5G. And I will say that it's going to take a little bit time, because it's not like internet right now. For example for the internet, if you develop a good application, you can reach billions of people. For 5G is still very limited right now. So I would say unicorns, this term, it's difficult because sometimes when people see unicorn, they may think that, oh, you can make a lot of money in half a year, in six months. I think for 5G, it's going to take a bit longer because we're still building out the 5G I will say network. So I would not use the term unicorn, maybe startup because I don't think unicorn can make a lot of money half a year on 5G. Okay. Any good introductory book a mature 5G for business beginner? I'm not aware. I'm sorry. Maybe I can research it. If I find it, I will send it to Cindy because I think Cindy has your information. So if I find any good material about 5G, I'll send it to her. Yeah. I may have some already, but I'll take a look which one is good. Yeah, I have some good videos and good papers on 5G. I think that those are good for beginners. Okay. Cindy, do you think, I'm looking over, some of these are political questions and I'm not gonna answer. Let me see if there's any good ones. So Cindy, do you have any questions for me? Cindy, I still cannot hear you. Okay, and thanks a lot. And I'm on LinkedIn. So if you guys are interested to connect, you can connect me on LinkedIn. I'm always interested in connecting with Booth alumni and others. It's a small world. This is good one. 5G needs a lot of base stations. Is it possible for us to construct? I'm not sure who is us? Definitely, I mean 5G because 5G actually, I would say, has to support high bandwidth, so it a lot of base station. So companies, for example, I read a report that China has deployed 200,000 of 5G smause house, and other countries will do the same. So yeah, so there's a lot of deployment of 5G base stations. But I'm not sure whether it's us to control. I'm not sure the answer. Well, this one is interesting. Do you think 5G and AI will take away the cost advantage, which low cost countries have due to low human resource cost? I think the way we look at it, AI actually is very limited in nature right now. So if you look at what AI can do, so I'm little diverting from 5G. But AI right now is a lot more about machine learning, about using machine learning on visual, on for example, on camera vision. So AI is by itself really right now cannot do a lot of this low cost jobs, for example manufacturing genes, manufacturing, for example, different car parts, vehicle parts. Those has to have to be done at low cost countries. So right now, AI can do a lot. But right now they are doing a lot of high level visualization, for example autonomous vehicles. Definitely, I think AI in the future can do more. But I see that AI has a lot of limitation. It's hitting a plateau right now. So in a way, I think we have to be very careful how much AI can do. Okay. Cindy, I'm not sure whether your back or I can hear you. So thank you very much. I think I've really enjoyed connecting with all of you over Zoom. And I hope that you and your family are safe. And hopefully in the future, I can see you in person, either in Hong Kong, China or anywhere in the world. And best to all of you. And I hope you have a good day. Thank you. Cindy and Lenora, I'm going to log off. And thank you for hosting this 5G talk. Have a nice day. - [Lenora] Have a nice day. Bye - [ Dennis] Thank you. Thank you. - [Lenora] Bye. - [Cindy] This is really weird. 