  This year's robotics capstone was inspired by some of the recent developments in robotics. What I wanted to do in the capstone is give students some tools, things like robot navigation or interfaces, and have them come up with an idea where they could apply their robotics knowledge to solve a real problem. The name of our project is Chockabot. Our hope is to actually use this in a hospital where nurses walk so much between rooms. We're hoping that the robot can actually automate that, and go get items for the nurses while they have more time to talk to patients. Originally, the Chockabot was a design for your pantry. There wasn't enough interest for that, so we ended up talking to some of our friends that were nursing majors, and through those conversations we thought of applying this to the hospitals. We have a group of four on our team, and we all have split up the work. They're working on the brain-- it's more of like a nervous system, it connects everything together-- while I'm working on the web app portion, which basically is how the user interacts with the robot. And he's working on the linear actuator stuff. We were printing out stuff like this. They're basically just the components that the robot uses to attach the linear actuator so that it can rise up and grab a box like this. Then it can bring it to the-- a work in progress-- so that it can bring it to the user. We're all CSU students, so we know how to make software. But there's a lot of other aspects to robots. There's a lot of moving parts, so there's some mechanical engineering involved, some electrical engineering involved, there's some embedded systems work. And it allows us to deepen our understanding in other areas. We have to design pieces that fit together, and that ultimately our software is going to run. That's been one of the bigger challenges, I'd say. They give us all these tools and resources to be able to basically finish a robot. We get to use a lot of our technical skills in combination with all the information from previous classes that we've taken. So it's a really cool project. Our system is called the Waiterbot, and it's designed such that a waiter or waitress will place food and drinks onto this tray on the robot. The recipients will take the food and drinks off of it. The learning curve is pretty steep, because we're using a lot of open source libraries, so there's not a whole lot of documentation. Today I'm working on a cup holder. We have these little platforms that we'll put our cups on, but one of the problems is that the cups can shake around a lot. So I'm going to be designing the cutout in CAD, and then I'm going to go to the laser cutter in a little bit get it cut out on the laser cutter. The mapping stuff was really fun to play around with and work with. It was really hard to figure out. Once you did, it was like a lot of it was done for you. So it was really nice. The problem we're trying to address now is decreased acceleration of our robot, because we run the risk of spilling drinks or spilling other things. So our robot is called the Range Rover. It's a driving range robot. It'll carry around golf balls at a driving range. It will automatically dispense a golf ball when you wave your club in front of it. We wanted to integrate technology with the driving range. The most difficult part of it was probably creating the dispenser, which way to go inside this box right here to dispense all the golf balls out one at a time. It was one the harder parts of it because being computer scientists, you don't normally get to do mechanical engineering, but it was also one of the neater parts. 