 Hi, my name is Dr. Michael Grant and I'm the CTO of DataProphet and I'm here to talk to you today about autonomous manufacturing and what the journey looks like and the way in which you can actually get there. In reflecting around the concepts of industry 4.0 in thinking about where production systems have come from and the changes we've made to improve throughput and efficiency. It starts off with robotic process automation where you take some repetitive process and you apply some mechanization to improve the throughput rate of that step. The interesting thing about this process is it doesn't actually make the quality much better, it does certainly make it less variable, but if you're going to produce a thousand defects with a robotic process automation you're going to make ten thousand defects at about the same amount of time. So great for throughput but not so good for improving your quality. Then we've started shifting these paradigms to become more data lead in our production systems, where we draw on production information from our data systems like historians and so on to inform the analysis that we're doing on this process. We come up with better control limits and ultimately this just makes the process automations job a little bit harder because they have to control the process within these finite bounds and that just makes the production system a little bit more expensive, but it does have the the upside of reducing the number of quality defects that are experienced. I think that looking at those two and thinking about where it goes next we've got to think about how we make these adaptive changes as quick as possible to understand as much of the system from start to finish as possible, such that we can improve the final results and that's the trick, because that last step is what really matters the most and you've got  to make your production system as flexible to tolerate as much variance in your upstream processes as possible without compromising on the final quality that's produced at the end result. So what does industry 4.0 do? Is it solves for that quality problem given the variance of supply of materials, be it raw materials at the input of a of a foundry through to sort of semi completed goods from tier-one automotive component manufacturers. You've got to take all of that and produce a perfect motor vehicle at the end of the line or a perfect widget given some of these changes. So where we're going with industry 4.0 is much more flexible, almost autonomous manufacturing systems that are correcting in as quick as time as possible, even ahead of real time in places to produce the best quality at the lowest cost The journey to autonomous manufacturing is quite complicated and it's not trivial about just turning it on, but in that step we were setting in the guidance space, we were able to make corrective suggestions to your production team to improve your quality and what this looks like is 'go and improve process X, value Y from this value into this range' and we try and make that range as wide as possible to accommodate as much variance in your process as we observe. In that guidance we're making your production system better for two reasons, we're reducing your manufacturing risk because the quality result is assured given some larger variance in input material and your total system efficiency is improved because less scrap means greater production capacity is better parts produced at the end of the process I think most plants today are drawing data from their production systems to their engineering or production teams and people are following their own inquisitiveness and looking through the data to try and come up with some kind of optimization improvement or system improvement. I don't think that there is a holistic use of data from the start of a process to the end of the process to do overall system improvement. There are two reasons for this. The first is I think that the systems are too complex to express in terms of classical engineering descriptions of these processes, and so an engineering model that would be able to handle material from the start of the process through to the finished goods at the end of the process are just too complex to express analytically and too complex to solve with traditional methods. The second thing is that the traceability of the component through this large process is very difficult to achieve and so, unless that system has a incredibly rigorous sampling and tracking of component flow, people aren't able to naively just join the data from step A right through to step Z So I think that solving this requires two things. The first is a flexible data system that allows you to express that relationship between the start of a process and the end of the process without having to enforce the higher the rigorous traceability that would be required to do it very simply and the next thing that people should be doing is that they need to look at the process with a slightly different view. How do you use a quality result from each of these steps to make a final quality improvement at the end of the process, remembering that that final step result is the one that matters the most and that as you move through your manufacturing process your manufacturing risk is in fact increasing because you're spending all of that time and money transforming these goods just to have a failure at the end and that's a big waste This is the really exciting thing about this paradigm of autonomous manufacturing, is that it's specifically designed to work with the existing process and the only thing that changes is it becomes more data-led. Use production data and quality data to make the small set of process changes that result in improved quality. So the journey toward autonomous manufacturing is in fact predicated on having an existing production system there. Although you can work in greenfield spaces and there and then good ways of doing that but you've got a good production system, you've just got to make sure that you get enough data out of it to describe the process and then we can have a real substantial impact on your system Reactive manufacturing works where you have a quality failure at the end and you go and make a set of reactive changes to your system in order to correct for that error. There are two things about this, the first is that the quality defect has happened already and the second is that you keep producing poor quality goods until you actually solve the root cause of it. A prescriptive system is very different to this. What we're saying is 'make the small change now to avoid a future defect failure, a future quality failure'. So it's a small set of corrective actions in anticipation of a quality cost that is not ever realized. So if you act on the prescriptions you never incur that cost of non-quality throughout the rest of your production line. Whereas reactive, you wait for the quality failure and all those costs, and then you spend extra money in your system to go and correct for those failures. The three best things that you can do to your production system now to prepare you for autonomous manufacturing is, get your data and save it. As soon as you're saving your production data the opportunities in the future for you to use that data are there and wide and many and that's the most the important thing you can do now. The next most important thing is to improve your quality system. As long as you're recording not only the fact that a defect occurs but also the details of the defect, it turns out that that's really important to diagnose what the root cause problem is and that's the drive our AI system to do that automatically for you. So yes you've had a defect and this defect has a type to it, it has a location to where it occurs and it has some kind of description that that gives you a little bit more information than it's just non-conforming. The third most important thing that you can do is to come chat to us about how you get your system installed and what we do in terms of our first steps to running a pilot at your plant. 