 Over here, rocks from the quarry will be crushed. then sent to roller machines to be ground into powder. After it becomes powder, we pack it in a 50kg bag. A lot of all these factories, they are in a very hazardous environment. So these environments are dangerous to people and it's very hot. It is very dusty. For someone who has a college degree or for someone who is an engineer It is very expensive for SME manufacturer or SME factory like that to hire. More and more companies are automating their processes for efficiency and productivity as they recognize the benefits of robotics and automation bring to their manufacturing and business, and in terms of the worker output and productivity. We believe this will increase productivity of workers and also helps to elevate the safety levels for workers in the industry. Before this, the packing place was very hot and dusty. Before this, I used to be a packing operator. I used to pack 50kg per bag. I had one coworker to help me. We would pack 150 bags. Now we have an automatic packing robot. and the robot can process 1200 bags We created a whole solution that allows even low-skilled workers to be trained in less than an hour to operate the whole solution and as well as the robot. Gopeng Kalsium has helped me by sending me for training with KUKA and SmartSense Now I am a robot operator. SmartSense is using KUKA PA Series, which is the palletizing robot in the KR QUANTEC product family. We integrate our solution with the robot and our conveyor system with the sensors to create like a whole true factory for the SME manufacturer. Now we just pack and drop it off. The conveyor belt moves the bag to the robot. The robot takes the bag and arranges it on the pallet. When the pallet is full, we remove the pallet by using a forklift. and put it in storage. Now our work has become much easier. With the sensors and the data from the robot will collect it and then store it in the cloud. Will analyze it after that we will send it out to the management team or the person in charge via WhatsApp or via our mobile application. If there's anything that is coming up in the future we can actually predict it with the data that we have analyzed from the checklist, that it has been done by the worker and this will decrease the downtime of the whole production. We are 100% satisfied with this new solutions and we are very confident of this partnership with SmartSense, which will bring a lot of benefits to the palletizing industry. It was very hard, but now with the robot's help everybody is happy. Robotic industries have been growing steadily through the years and in recent days we are seeing faster adoptions for a wider range of industries in the market and robotic solutions will be the key drivers for digital transformation in the future. We are very excited to be part of this future. 