 What we do right here at YOUIBOT is focused on using mobile operation robots to change industries, to enhance factories' efficiency, or to keep people, human operators, away from danger. Nobody saw this outbreak coming. In early February, Chinese New Year vacation, everyone's at home. And the numbers went up. I mean the infected numbers. And on February 3rd, I can well remember there was a big discussion in our YOUIBOT group chat. Someone said, "Are we able to do something about this outbreak since it's getting serious every day?" How can these mobile operation robots have a role in this plague? And on February 16th, we have all the components together and we built the first ARIS-K2 robot in our office. Two weeks from an idea to a prototype. The traditional way of disinfection with UVC is always put those lamps on the roofs (ceiling). For the 24 hours, they are only [functioning for half an hour,] and all the rest is wasted. So we believe when we put it on a moving platform, like a robot, we can just use 30 minutes on one spot and we move to another one and now we'll be continuously killing the virus around the room. So during the night, when everybody's out, turn on the UVC lights, all automatically. One option, with three hours, it is able to disinfect 1,800 square meters, which is a large area. And also we put a thermometer camera on the top of those lamps, which means during the day when there are people around, the robot is able to do the temperature detecting patrol. That's the idea how we are managing this robot to deliver a real anti-epidemic service. HAX is collecting all the electronics startups from all over the world and putting them here in Shenzhen, which is a brilliant choice. I always joke around with our colleagues. We say that if there is any existing electronics component on the market, we will be able to find it downstairs and we can just get it in a minute. So that's something that enables us to innovate quickly. I mean, this is an innovation business, and this is a race with time, especially when we're trying to build this robot. It's like every day, there are hundreds of thousands of people getting infected. So every day counts. By February 22, a little after that, we had our like standard ARIS-K2 for the market ready. And that's when we donated one piece of those machines to People's Third Hospital of Hubei province, which is the center of this outbreak. And that hospital is one of the main battlefields fighting against the virus. This robot is still working over there right now. And now we have our third version of this ARIS-K2 already, with CE certificates. So now our main market comes from overseas and we are preparing packs of the products as much as we can. And now two OEM factories are working for us to build this ARIS-K2 as well. We are motivated and we are trying to do the best we can to deliver this kind of disinfection robot solution. And we feel pretty proud to do something in this situation. And we would like to do more if we can. 