 Those who are satisfied with the cargo services can stop watching this episode. "We couldn't find you at your address." Is there anyone who did not recieved this message after shopping online this year? What about posting complaints to any cargo company's page on social media? The good news is Pioneer companies such as Amazon, Google and Ford invest in autonomous delivery robots and drones. Start-ups that develop solutions in this area, which is also a popular subject of silicon valley, can find investments up to billion dollars. We can say that there are some companies who use technology to change the conventional parcel delivery services. So when these autonomous robots and drones will be a real alternative to the problem of parcel delivery, especially during the black friday craze. Which robots, drones will end our headaches starting right after we cay "delivery". Let's start! This autonomous robot is Roxo; the new generation delivery robot of one the world's largest logistics companies, FedEx. Roxo, who was introduced to New Yorkers last week, was fired by the mayor with the words "I would never allow a robot to do a job that a New Yorker could do." Another reason for the complaints is that this autonomous robot is yet a primitive technology to deliver in the fastest city in the world. This self-confident robot who dares to show up in New York is currently being tested by brands such as Pizza Hut and WallMart. This robot has already done over a hundred thousand deliveries. Developed by Starship Technologies, this autonomous robot is responsible for errands on more than a hundred university campuses. This dude can carry up to 10 kilos and operates in a 3-kilometer area. These robots, which the students love very much, have recieved investments around 85 million dollars. This delivery robot is Digit developped by Ford. It is said to be overthrown and able to overcome obstacles. Yeah, Ford. Ford has been using its autonomous vehicles for delivery for a while. However, the fact that people had to go out and get their packages from these autonomous vehicles brought security problems. In order to find a solution to this problem, Ford developed Digit in collaboration with Agility Robotics. There are doubts about what Digit, who can carry up to 18 kg, can do in multi-storey buildings and in more complex areas. The US giant markets Walmart and Krueger are beginning to distribute their products with these autonomous vehicles. Designed by former google employees, Nuro is an autonomous vehicle designed for regional product distribution. Thanks to the different configurations of the vehicle, all kinds of goods, load, food, and package could be delivered to certain distances in the city. Japanese company SoftBank is among their investors. It has secured about $ 1 billion investment, already. 1 billion dollars! Let's remember who was SoftBank from last week? The producer of this this and this. Could these robots able to ensure that our orders arrive on time in the near future? I am not sure. I'm not sure at least in the near future. They have to proove themselves first in US, and than in Turkey... The process is quite long... But we can talk about a company saying that "there is another way", about the way of the world e-commerce giant Amazon, we can talk about their drones. Amazon delivered 2.5 billion units of parcel last year. Moreover, Amazon makes 50% of these deliveries with its own facilities without using a parcel delivery company. When it comes to Amazon, it may seem easy. But this company is doing something else, too. The company has been conducting tests to deliver their orders with drones. These drones, called Prime Air, had their first test in the UK in 2016. According to a recent statement from the company, the delivery by drones will begin within months. These drones have a range of 24km. and can carry 2.5kg packages. Amazon increases the number of warehouses close to the city centers in order to spread the delivery by these drones which can take off and land vertically. Speaking of Amazon, let's talk about this good work, too. The space company; Blue Origin, founded by Jeff Bezos, the CEO of Amazon, sent postcards collected from children around the world to space with their rockets last week. They're gonna mail the postcards back to each student stamped 'flown in space.' Amazon is not alone in "the delivery by drones" business. These drones are belong to the Wing project, which Google has been developping for a quite long time. Wing had made its first commercial delivery in the middle of this year after a trial period in Australia. These drones, which continue the test flights required for legal permits in America, will be tested in Finland for the first time in 2020. In order for a feasible delivery by Drones, the technology giants have to prove that their drones are safe. One of the biggest criticisms about drone delivery which is faster, less costly and a greener method than land transportation is noise pollution. In 2030, one of every four deliveries is expected to be made by drones. The number of people who would prefer to go and get their cargo rather than live under the buzz of the drones may not be less. Apart from what we have mentioned in this section, there are many initiatives that have developed autonomous delivery robots and have been testing drone transport in the deserts for a long time. It appears that these technologies will enter our lives with their problems. If this is the most advanced point of traditional cargo transportation, In other words, despite of all these technological development, softwares and traceability... if this is the most advanced point... if this most advanced point is the cunning note from the delivery service saying "we couldn't find you at home. Come and get your parcel" if this most advanced point refers to unanswered phone calls I can't wait to see even the most primitive forms of transport by robots and drones. Hope to see you next week with a completely different episode. Hey you! e-commerce sites, delivery companies! Remember better is possible! 