 The U.S. Air Force has for the first time deployed robotic ‘dogs’ to guard its military facilities. This is part of the new Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS) - a digital battle network allowing forces to accumulate, process, and share data in real-time. Viewers may note that the ‘dogs’ had demonstrated their capabilities in a large scale test exercise in September held in Nellis Air Force Base and have proved their worth. As per reports, the ‘dogs' are currently being used to guard Nellis Air Force Base in southern Nevada - which houses more squadrons than any other American base in the world, as well as Tyndall Air Force Base in Florida. Named the Q-UGV (Quadrupedal Unmanned Ground Vehicle), the ‘dogs’ are assigned to carry out tasks that include remote inspection, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance (ISR), mapping, and distributed communications. The robots are data connected which allows them to communicate with other systems seamlessly. In this video Defense Updates analyzes how Q-UGV Robotic Dog will protect U.S military bases? Let’s get started. This video is sponsored by War Thunder. If you are, like us, fascinated by military vehicles and technology, I recommend you give War Thunder a try. It's a military vehicle combat game which you can download and play for free on PC, PlayStation4 and Xbox One - with cross-platform support. It has a huge variety of more than 1200 playable aircraft, tanks, helicopters and ships from the 1930s to the 1990s, which you can take to battle on land, in the air and at sea on more than 80 theaters of war. War Thunder has been kind enough to offer all Defense Updates viewers a special bonus, which will grant you a free premium tank or aircraft or ship and three days of premium account time for registering using our link in the description below. So, take the plunge and join the more than 20 million players from all over the world! U.S military has by far the most number of bases despite recently closing hundreds of bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. The United States maintains nearly 800 military bases in more than 70 countries and territories abroad. Many of these bases house important & expensive assets some of them being strategic once like B-2 Spirt Bomber. A single B-2 costs around $2 billion. A simple grenade lobbed on to the aircraft could potentially cripple it. This will not only lead to huge financial loss but degradation in U.S combat capability. Militaries around the world have experienced attacks on their bases and centers. On 16 July 2015, four marines and a sailor were killed by Kuwait-born Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez, 24, of Hixson, Tennessee, who opened fire at a recruiting center in Chattanooga. On 2 January 2016, a heavily armed group attacked the Pathankot Air Force Station, part of the Western Air Command of the Indian Air Force. In the attack, 7 security personnel were killed and the base also suffered damages. On 7 October 7 2019, a man rammed a stolen truck into a barricade at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi in South Texas and then ran around the base with a stolen handgun before he was arrested. As per some reports, between late February and early March of last year Andersen Air Force Base on the Island of Guam experienced repeated incursions by unmanned aircraft. The War Zone reported that the intruding craft was described as "quadcopter-like" vehicles with bright spotlights that flew from over the water and then across the North West Base. Surveillance activates such as this could be a precursor for an impending attack. Clearly, the protection of bases needs special attention. Major Jordan Criss from Tyndall stated in an official release: “These robot dogs will be used as a force multiplier for enhanced situational awareness by patrolling areas that aren’t desirable for human beings and vehicles.” He added further: “We will be able to drive them via a virtual-reality headset within our Base Defense Operations Center… We will be able to see exactly what the robot dog is detecting through its mobile camera and sensor platform if desired, we will also be able to issue verbal commands to a person or people through a radio attached to the dogs.” It is important to note that currently, these ‘dogs’ have no combat capabilities. There are reports that the Pentagon is considering inducting combat-capable 4 legged robots into service. Q-UGV with its reconnaissance role is just the first one and it is likely that more capable robots will enter service going forward. The specific model being deployed is known as Vision 60. The maker , Ghost Robotics calls the Vision 60 a Q-UGV, or Quadrupedal Unmanned Ground Vehicle. Ghost Robotics website states : Ghost Robotics® is revolutionizing legged robotics and the market for highly-agile and fast tele-operated and autonomous unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) for military, homeland security, public safety, and enterprise applications. Our quadrupedal UGVs (Q-UGV®) are unstoppable. Beyond all-terrain stability and operation in unstructured environments, a core design principle for our legged robots is reduced mechanical complexity when compared to other legged robots, and even traditional wheeled-tracked UGVs. By reducing complexity, we inherently increase durability, agility, and endurance, and reduce the cost to deploy and maintain ground robots. Our modular design supports field maintenance and parts replacement within minutes. Strategic partners can build solution-specific Q-UGVs for virtually any use-case with their choice of sensors, radios and even size the robot to suit specific requirements by licensing our reference designs. The company also has another variant named Spirit 40. Service dogs have been employed by militaries across the world to guard their bases and other important installations. Unlike a real service dog, a robotic dog can patrol wider areas since it won’t be tired and also provide the military personnel direct eyes on the ground. It is not hard to see that robotic dogs like Vision 60 could play a key role in patrolling perimeters of military bases, scouting areas ahead of human soldiers on the battlefield, and inspecting potentially dangerous objects. These robotic dogs could also be used to carry some of the soldier’s equipment as well as map the surroundings giving the soldier excellent situational awareness. As the technology matures, the robotic dogs could be employed for passive as well as active combat roles. In passive roles, they could be used to lay land mines while in active roles they may be fitted with a gun system or grenade launcher to neutralize enemies. It is undeniable that the potential is huge and the science-fiction of robots working alongside humans is becoming reality quicker than expected. U.S military has been one step ahead of its rivals because of its futuristic vision and ability to implement groundbreaking ideas. The deployment of robotic dogs again depicts the same values. 