 Chris: I have a bad start Tobi: I have microstutter I think Nicho: Marcel too yesterday, idk what he did Me: nothing, still have some stutter Nicho: ups Nicho: Oh no Nicho: no worrys, will happen again Tobi: who's behind Marcel? Chris: Olli Olli: Smeels like a dive-bomb Tobi: what did he say? Nicho: he meant "Smells like a dive-bomb" Chris: why is Tobi so fast Me: he has no one in front Chris: Tell me the type of wine you had Tobi: Riesling Chris: the best Chris: With soda or pure? Tobi: yesterday both Tobi: was not the only thing I had you know "Berliner Luft" (Berlin Air) Tastes like mouth rinse like you've brushed your teeth Nicho: Like After Aight without chocolate normal or strong one? Tobi: idk, 30% maybe Nicho: Ok, there is also a strong one with 42% Tobi: ok makes sense because it didn't taste like alcohol that much and I think thats dangerous about it Nicho: Can copy that I have a friend who likes it a lot unnecessary bla bla Tobi: I loose a lot time in the carousel because I bottom out Chris: and I think i catch up bla bla survived curb, bla bla, lucky, bla Chris: All three wide? Me: no Me: soon there will be a slip-stream battle Me: aah shitty when you don't get this right for straight (too far away for slip-stream) Nicho: You need a slingshlot Me: Chris you've better not told Tobi to not brake here Tobi: what are the restrictiors? Marcel 3% Chris: Poweeeeer Chris: front tyres don't get warm enough Nicho: me 2 Me: maybe I was braking a bit early here? Tobi: I was late, almost crashed Tobi: now my left front one is at temperature Me: after you where too late on the brakes? Tobi: no the hole lap Chris: for me 2, all besides right front Me: I have no idea, never look after it Chris: Whats your top speed? Me: 255 Tobi: 254 Me: You where wide? Tobi: yes Chris: Challenging corner for me Marcel: but worked out fine Chris: yes fast and without slide Chris: There was a position change behind me, didnt recognize that Me: at Schwedenkreuz Chris: fastest lap takes Marcel Me: I alway think he slides and must loose time, but he does not Chris: was only a small slide long silence... all concentrating Tobi: you are at the toilet or what? Me: fastest lap is yours, I was closer to you before Chris: Qualifying was shit against this lap Me: I had -1.5sec on the clock but could only save -1 Tobi: I had -3.2 Me: Oh you where a lot better ;-) Tobi: I did my training through the race 