 - I have no game development background. I come from a business school. People would be like, how do you dare to do that? I'm like, I don't know any better. I didn't know what I was doing when I started making VR games. I would just try. I would come up with an idea, jam it together, I would show it to someone, and I would ask them for their feedback. There was no rules. We were all trying to figure it out together. Since we're game jammers in VR Unicorns, we have this great team dynamic. It's always very nice when we can be in the same room. We all meet up three or four times a year so we're often working all the way to events where we meet up, and we've just been traveling with our laptops around the world for the past many years. - Hey guys. We're getting filmed, hey. - Horatiu is, he's magical. He's the main developer on Selfie Tennis and Ski Jump. One day we were just jamming ideas in the office and the name Selfie Tennis came up. Suddenly, I look over at Horatiu's computer and he's setting up a tennis court. He asked me if I wanted to play and I said yes. I played Selfie Tennis for the first time and we all just decided, alright, we're gonna do quirky, weird sports games because it's so much fun. - Today, we're heading to Stockholm and we're meeting up with Team Archery, who are two of our Swedish Unicorns. Horatiu and I are on the train. And you're looking good, Horatiu. And basically, we just need to get things done and playtest a lot. - The goal of the game is you play tennis against yourself. And meanwhile, these ball people are messing with you. So, you can kill them and stuff. That's not the purpose of the game, but everybody tends to do that anyway. So, it's great. And now, we're probably going to look at a bunch of these animations. Cat pick up. It's probably like a funny walk and then pounce! Just look at these guys. They're gonna do this kind of stuff, and I think it's super funny. - We'll arrive in Stockholm in three hours already, and then Max will pick us up, and then we literally just hit the ground running. Stockholm! - Oh, hi! - We should get a car. We should have a car for the weekend. - Yeah. And a plastic cart. - Plastic cart. Met up with Max, went out for a nice dinner, and this morning we went to Raw Fury's offices. - Oh, that's when they find a corner of something, then they start doing this. - But it was more stumbling, right? - When you hit them, yes. - Oh, it's a great place. - Oh, this is nice! There's gonna be a lot of development and playtesting today. The archery guys are gonna arrive, then we're also working on archery. - Just a funny take on archery. Like oh what about if you were a pizza chef But you had to bake your pizzas with a bow and arrow? So... There's a grumpy chef over there, like, helping out. But you don't want to hit him because he'll get even more grumpy. - Max is amazing. He's so cheerful. He has all these quirky ideas. - There's kids running towards you because they want ice cream. You need to hold them off because if Oh! - Okay, I'm ready. I made the AI guy interact with the balls. It's gonna be super broken, but let's try it out. He's running to get it. So far so good. Try to throw it at me. The throw is super weak and now, yeah. He wants to get it again. I can also kill him now. - We literally make games for ourselves. It's very important to us we're working on something we're really passionate about. This is why we're doing it. - Whoa, you killed all of them at once. That's pretty good. - Whoa! - Whoa! - I'm getting creeped out. I don't know how you feel. - I'm very happy when I play our games. That's probably the best time of my life right now. - Do you recognize this? - Oh, this is my apartment. I remember. Oh, there's the sausages. - We're all passionate about what we do, and none of us stick to any rules. Fortunately sometimes we also ship games. 