 - What's up everybody, Ben Rudolph from Microsoft here. I'm here with Steve Hawke from the PC marketing team at Samsung, one of my favorite companies. You guys make outstanding displays and TVs, killer phones. I got a Galaxy Note 8 in my pocket right now. - Nice - And you're doing some great stuff with Windows and the PC space, so what do we got coming? - Thank You. Yeah, So first up we got the Samsung HMD Odyssey. This is our Windows Mixed Reality headset. And we just recently announced in December of last year Steam VR compatibility. So we're bringing in a whole bunch of new applications and games to this headset, so there's a lot more content to try out and a lot more coming and on the way, so - It's awesome, Windows mixed reality is such a big deal. Part of the, of the fall creator's update, you know, there's more and more PCs everyday that are Windows Mixed Reality ready and what I love about the headset range is that it's continuing to grow. - Yeah. - So just like PCs, there's a headset for everyone and you guys are really playing at the higher end of that spectrum. - Yeah, absolutely. So, we actually have integrated AKG audio in the side, and dual array microphones, which is kind of unique for our device, so it's great for immersive gaming, spatial audio, so, yeah, we try to take the learnings that we've had so far in virtual reality and really kinda put that into the best of the best headsets. - Yeah, I mean, this is a really well built headset, and hopefully it'll  come through on the video, but, you know, there's plastic here, and you got the nice soft padding, like it feels really well built. - Yeah. - So it doesn't feel like a, like a chincy kinda cardboard-y thing that, you know, some other headsets feel like. - Yeah. - This one, it feels really nice, the sound is outstanding, the picture quality is beautiful. It really kinda represents the best of what I think Windows Mixed Reality can do. - Yeah, Absolutely. We've got our Amoled, we've got our super Amoled display in there. - Similar tact to what you guys have on the phones? - Yeah, so OLED technology, so yeah, it's similar. - So beautiful picture, great color, outstanding sound, great fit and finish. I mean, this is a, is a great headset. - Thank you very much - I am really excited. What's your favorite game to play in Mixed Reality right now? - Uh, probably Arizona Sunshine. - Me too. That is a great game. If you haven't played it, it's available in the Windows store, it is awesome. - Yeah. - Absolutely Awesome Um, so, let's move over from kinda the high end gaming rigs, and the Windows Mixed Reality, uh, to the Notebook lines. - Cool. - So Samsung Notebooks have a spot that's really near and dear to my heart. I helped launch with you guys when I was at Microsoft and you at Samsung. The original Samsung 9 Series, that super thin, beautiful black PC, I think it was made out of, was it door luemen? - Yeah. - Like same stuff the F22 Raptor is made out of. That's one of those things that sticks in my head. Just like really set the bar for what a thin and light device could be. - Absolutely - And it really was like a reference design for the rest of the industry. And you have some new stuff that we're showing today as well. - Yeah. - So, um, This guy's the hero. Tell me a little bit about what's cooking right here. - Yeah so we're actually trying to raise that bar right now with the new materials. So, you'll see, first off, that this is the Notebook 9 Pen, the Samsung Notebook 9 Pen, And it's a convertible design, so for people who want to take their PC anywhere and do everything. You can either go into tablet mode or use it as more of a traditional laptop. But it's actually, the material is made out of Metal-12 is what we're calling it. It's a Magnesium Alloy. So you get that lightweight, that lightweight form factor from magnesium. - It's so light. - And it's got some Aluminum added in there for strength and durability. - I mean, you can see how thin that thing is. I mean, it's like razor, razor thin. A killer Samsung display. And I really love this device, not just because it's so thin and so light and it's got that beautiful Samsung glass on it- - Yeah - But this is one of those devices where I feel like there are no trade offs. - Absolutely. - USB-C. - Yep. - On the side here, and my favorite, a full size HDMI port, - No adaptors. - which is so rare in devices of this category. With thin-and-lights you a lot of mini display port, lot of companies moving just to USB-C. You guys kept these, these full size ports. - Staying true. - It's great, which plugs really nicely into Samsung Monitor or a Samsung TV. - Absolutely. (chuckles) - Let's talk about the pen a little here, because this was something where before we started shooting, I picked up this device, like okay, it's the new-, it's called The Pen PC. - Yeah. - Where's the pen? - So the pen is actually- - And I couldn't find it and you showed me. - Right on the front right there. Just a quick tap, you can take it out. So, it's actually our Samsung S Pen technology in here so the same kind of experience you would get with our handsets, like the Note 8. So it launches Air Command when you pull it out, um, also when you tap the button near the screen. It doesn't require batteries, and it integrates really seamlessly into the laptop like you saw, so it's easy to keep track of, easy to take with you anywhere. - And this is as customizable as it is on the phone, correct? - Yes, so you got a series of shortcuts here for the most common used S Pen applications. - So one of the things that I love about when I use my Note 8 and the S Pen is the integration of Samsung hardware and Microsoft Software. - Yeah. - Because what I've done on my Note, and what I would love to do on this PC is I made OneNote one of my quick shortcuts here, so when I pull the pen out on my phone, and I would do the same thing on my PC, I could just tap one note, I can go right in, I can take my notes in ink, and then I can slide it back in and close it. - Yeah absolutely, this is compatible with the Windows Ink platform as well, so you can pull all that up, all of your apps that you want through there too. - This is beautiful. I mean, I uh, said in another video that I wish you could feel how light this thing is through the video, but it just, it feels great, super solid, - It's our lightest weight. - Really well built, this is great. So we got the Notebook 9 Pen. We have traditional Form factors as well. - Yeah, absolutely. - What do we have over here? These are new as well correct? - Correct. Yeah, so this is a refresh of our Note, sorry, our Samsung Notebook 9 for 2018. So we actually have two different size variations in 15-inch and 13-inch, with a couple different configurations for a base model with I5 or a premium model with I7. This one comes with the integrated graphics driver or a dedicated Nvidia GeForce MX150. - Okay. I mean that's pretty impressive. That's a pretty impressive spec line for something that's this light. - Yeah, absolutely. - I think a lot of us went away from the big 15-inch laptops, because they were just so heavy. Really heavy, big power bricks. I like that now we're at a spot where we can go back to the big screen, get the real estate, work in PowerPoint, do graphics intensive work, but you're not, you're not gonna throw a disc. - Yeah. - Because this thing is so light. I also noticed when you showed me this earlier, that the screen lays flat. - Absolutely. - That range of motion is incredibly useful to someone like me, I'm on the road, I flew 92,000 miles last year, down from 105 from the year before, so I'm trying to - Groovy - get in the right direction. Because if I'm at a table like this, If I have a traditional PC with a limited range of motion, I'm kinda stuck like right here. If I'm standing up and working, I can put this thing almost all the way down and be fully productive. - Yeah, absolutely. - And those are little, but very intentional, design cues, that you put into these PC's to make them not only beautiful but really productive as well. - Yeah. And these actually come packed with a 75 watt-hour Hexacell Battery, so it's actually the largest battery that we've put into a PC to date. So not only is it lightweight, easy for you to take anywhere, But it'll last, for that trip that you're talking about. - That's it man, you built a PC that I can run on all day, I get the big screen, the lightweight, the graphics capability - Yeah. - Pretty much perfect. This is awesome. And what do we have over on the other side of the table? - Yeah so this is, this is actually our Notebook, Samsung Notebook 7 Spin. And this is kind of our, our more budget friendly device, but this is a convertible two-in-one, you can flip it around 360 degrees to use it as a tablet. It does have a fingerprint sensor on the power key. It is active pen enabled as well so you can use any active pen on, on the surface to take notes. We've got a lot of software that really caters towards, um, students in this version, with voice notes, which lets you record, add bookmarks and all that. - That's great. - Yeah, really great, uh, not compromising on performance, but a budget friendly device. - It's really nice to see it and I love the fact that you're adding that fingerprint sensor for Windows Hello. - Yeah. - And this is one of those things where since Windows Hello came out, I resent when I have to type my password in somewhere. - Yeah. - You're just so used to sitting down at your PC (snaps) It just logs you in instantly and you can get to work, and you're always thinking 'man, this is the way that it should always work'. - Yeah. - And it's great that even in a budget friendly device, you got that capability built in. So something for everybody here, we got our ultra light convertibles with the pen, ultra lights, and we got a great value, budget friendly convertible. - Yep. - That's a pretty great lineup. Dave, thank you so much for hanging out. - Thank you. - This is absolutely awesome stuff. I'm gonna get this 15-inch when it's ready and comes out. - Yes. - Thanks for hanging out with us. Lots of great stuff from Samsung. Stick with us, we got a lot more coming. 