 (click) - [Woman] On Monday, June 5th, 2017, I felt the worst headache of my life. Like an ice pick driving through my skull. (intense music playing) A CAT scan revealed a bleed in the side of my head the size of a softball. The only option to stop the bleed was to have a craniotomy to remove it. Being completely out of control is terrifying. (intense music playing) - [Doctor] It's difficult to talk to patients about brain surgery because it's very abstract. We're combining delivering difficult news about a scary diagnosis with the additional fear of not knowing what to expect, and not being able to understand what it is I'm explaining to them. When we show them a model, when they fly inside their own brain, they can see the structures. They can see the tumor, they can see the aneurysm. - [Woman] This device creates an experience for the patient where nothing is unknown anymore. (intense music playing) (cars driving) - [Surgeon] While it's certainly daunting to think about somebody tinkering around inside your head, there's a whole bunch of anxiety that comes with that. Patients are looking for some hope. They're looking for a way to understand what's happening. What's made brain surgery, historically, pretty challenging is surgeons have to look at two dimensional imaging and in their mind's eye, create a three dimensional map of how they might approach the operation. We thought, you know what. We can intervene here and we can take MRI and CT scans and fuse them together in our software to create a virtual reconstruction and change the practice of medicine for the benefit of the family, the surgeon and the institution. It is that person's anatomy VRalized. The Intel processor really allows our content to come alive. - [Man] We've worked with Surigcal Theater, taking our latest desktop and notebook processor technologies so that we can very quickly render those 3D environments in the exam room and allow that patient to have a real-time, immersive experience while their providers in the room. - [Provider] Hi there. Good morning. Good to see you again. What you're looking at now, this is a three dimensional model of your brain. You see the tumor there in green? - [Patient] Yes. - [Provider] Now, you're getting something to see that most patients never get to see. (intense music playing) - [Woman] I was totally panic-stricken. I'm not a doctor so I couldn't understand what they were trying to tell me because I had never physically seen a craniotomy before. It's so hard to wrap your head around what they're about to do. (intense music playing) When I put on the goggles, my surgeon asked me if I was ready to fly. In the moments where they were telling me really terrifying things, I also felt a little bit of peace from the way it was being presented. I was able to, in real-time, see inside my brain. I was physically there with them, looking at exactly what they were trying to communicate. - [Another Doctor] Before Surigcal Theater, preparing for surgery was literally me sitting over a cup of coffee, kinda thinking okay I'm gonna do this and then I remember that the optic nerve is here. But those preparations were kinda ad-lib. Now, with 360 degree 3D reconstructions, we're able to be inside that environment which is as close to brain surgery as we can actually get without being there in the operating room. (intense music playing) The advantage that the virtual planning and rehearsal brings to our readiness for surgery is the ability to simulate multiple different approaches. In a real patient, we don't get to try that more than once. We only get one shot at it. In the virtual model, we can do two plans, three plans, five plans, and see which one is the best for the individual patient. - [Provider] Can you make the bone look a little more like bone, so it's not translucent at first? Now that I can see the frontal sinus, I'm planning it you know-- - [Man] Different. - [Provider] Yeah. Yeah. (intense music playing) Let's bring in the microscope. - [Doctor] When we're in the operating room and we get to the time of surgery, because we've done the preoperative rehearsal, it kinda feels like deja vu. Like okay, I've been here before. I know where the important structures are gonna be. (operating room noises) - [Provider] Here we are. We're coming up to the back of the tumor right here. This would be a good place to do an overlay. Make the tumor more translucent. (intense music playing) - [Woman] I was at the hospital in the ICU for 10 days and I had two angiograms, two MRIs, two CAT scans and a craniotomoy. I had a risk of having epileptic seizures for the first of my life. Not knowing that I'd ever be able to drive a car again, that I would ever be able to run again. But I would say the biggest testament to how everything went is the fact that I'm sitting here today. It was nothing short of a miracle. - [Doctor] I think this technology is absolutely groundbreaking. (intense music playing) I wouldn't use the word revolutionary. I would say it's evolutionary. (intense music playing) I think virtual reality will change the face of healthcare. I think it some ways it already has. (intense music playing) This is just an expertise that Intel possess that has helped us advance in ways we never thought possible. People are demanding transparency. I think people deserve to be spoken to in a way that they can understand. (intense music playing) - [Woman] It made me grateful for each and every moment that we have. We experience life in three dimension. Why should our medical care be any different? (intense music playing) 