 Hey guys this is Sameer for digit.in and I am joined with Hardik and if you are watching this unboxing, it's actually we've gotten these products a little bit in advance. But they are mixed reality headsets and Hardik has already prematurely opened that box only from the top before. I actually yeah I wanted to see what was inside. Yeah so why don't you tell them what's inside that because you already know it right? Yeah so this is the Omen Compact and this is the headset. So why don't we actually unbox one at a time. So let's start with the headset. Yes! Mixed reality headsets are something that we have experienced at a couple of events. They are finally launching in India. There is no price that has actually been revealed to us yet and the packaging is actually pretty compact. It's just two boxes literally just two boxes. Okay so here are the controllers. Wow! Oh these are the controllers? Yeah that'll probably this will probably be the headset then. Oh it's actually written on the box is it? Is it? So Windows mixed reality headset and that one says The Controllers. Wow this packaging is actually pretty compact. So setting it up should actually not be a problem. Unfortunately we can't show you the complete setup because this is with us for a limited amount of time. But what we can tell you is that literally this is it. It has a wheel to tighten and get a little loose, something that's very reminiscent of what we have seen on the PlayStation VR. It's like taking a leaf from the PlayStation VR headset and as you can see it actually kinda, you know, comes up and back down and has quite a compact fit. I have experienced a bunch of them. Lenovo one and Acer one. But never the HP one. And I can say that it's pretty much the same. Yeah what you see in the the HTC Vive and HTC Vive has a more a heavier set of controllers. But these are smaller, is lighter and these have in and out. So all the dots you see here, these are all for the recognization where the controller is in real time space. Yeah also another one of the really cool things about this is that because of the dots on the controller it's actually a relatively light controller. It's got like a joystick on the top, a d-pad next to it, a windows button, a menu button and just a single trigger. And the recognition all happens from the camera that's in the front out here. So you really don't need to setup like with the PlayStation VR with a separate camera or like the HTC Vive room scaling sensors. It's literally plug and play. Plug this into a PC and speaking of the PC why don't we get the PC and check it out. So this is the Omen. This is the omen X Compact. This is a small desktop which can be kept on the table itself and there's a backpack inside in the box. So you can plug it around, put the VR Headset in and put this desktop on your back and play on VR. Wow this is compact. It is heavy no doubt. Is this the CPU? Yeah this is the whole machine. This is the entire thing. This is a whole machine. This has a GTX 1080 inside, 1TB of hard drive and a 7820 HK desktop-class processor. So this doesn't have a brick in itself because the brick is there. You can put it on this stand on the table right there. It is essentially the power brick. We have to power it. So this right here, this is dockable and that's essentially the PC. Yeah that's essentially the PC. So just to show you guys how slim it is this is essentially if I'm not mistaken this unit itself is a lot slimmer than any current generation consoles. So basically this is the PC. This is just, just to let you know ,on the desktop unit. So just to be more clear with everyone who's watching this is not an external graphics card like we've seen on thin and light laptops. This is not giving any external boost or power to the machine. There's nothing like just a docking station with the only addition being two USB ports on one side and a host of other display ports, HDMI ports, more USB ports and Ethernet port. Just more ports on the other sides which is giving more connectivity than anything else. Yeah and this is a power brick. Plug it in pocket and that's it everything all the keys all the USB ports I have is an eject button here so you don't you know I can only take it out and there's a whole is set up for the back so at the back we have consuming log our three USB 3.0 ports DisplayPort and HDMI port an Ethernet jack there's a power port although there are two publics so there are two power in power bricks and one connects to move the PC for the CPU and one is the one GPU okay so we will get you our in-depth look at everything so now here's another very cool thing is the backpack in which this essentially fits but if you are going to be playing games in the virtual world then you will need a backpack to have a little bit more freedom per se so you can actually just move around although the cable that comes with the mixed reality headset is fairly long so you really don't need to worry your other cables in the box itself okay there are more cables in the box which you guys can probably see on your screen right now so harvick I know they've given this us pre-launch and we have experienced mixed reality headset and I can tell you that between the HTC wife the oculus rift the PlayStation VR and the dead connect which was a motion sensor only but between all of them mixed reality is by far the most accurate I have experienced so far see and in this office only Sameer has experienced reality unfortunately more this is going to be the first time for others but I have actually experienced it I can tell you it is extremely accurate and a lot of fun and very immersive and I am shocked that Microsoft is not getting these the mixed reality headset support to the Xbox one X which it would just be brilliant to come to the PlayStation VR experience HP I think only has been able to yeah but they have Lenovo is there a sir is there Dell HP there are about six companies there are companies making make sure they have so exciting it absolutely so there you have it guys we are going to show you a glimpse of putting or the the CPU into this backpack and what it looks like and we will get you the price or you might be able to see the price and some launch details in the descriptor because we are actually seeing this pre-launch we don't know the price of this beautiful and slim CP I actually really like it I really like yeah and the windows mixed reality had said we don't know the pricing as I'm unboxing this but if it is competitively priced we think it could definitely a great steel deal thank you so much guys for joining us and for more videos like this one you can subscribe to our channel we will catch you in another video and if you want us to do something specific with the mixed reality headset let us know and we will try to get you that video it's good bye for now 