 The 3D printing in action conference is our major event that we are running this year, hosted by NSERC our major funding agency. And it was an opportunity for our students and industry partners to get together to discuss new trends in the 3D printing world, to talk about some of the things we have going on here at Mohawk and across the industry and southwestern Ontario and a chance for us to get together and to build a network for additive manufacturing here in the region We started the day with a keynote address from Mark Majewski from Ontario Centres of Excellence on emerging trends in technology. If I came to you, and this is you know a comment out there in the industry, If I said the largest taxi company has no vehicles, the largest hotel company has no rooms, the fastest growing bank in the world has no money. If I were to say to you ten years ago, even five years ago, we’re going to take all your data and we’re going to put it on the cloud and you’re not going to have any infrastructure in your building, everything is going to be on this mysterious cloud, you would have all thrown that person out of your office. Today my talk was on the introduction to the basics of 3D printing, I would recommend that if they haven’t started 3D printing yet, they should go home and get into it because it is an amazing field and extremely interesting. FDM printing is low cost and it’s an excellent option for prototyping and creating custom parts. I think that shows the depth of the expertise that we’ve built at Mohawk, it also shows the caliber of the students that we have working with us. And it’s a great opportunity for them to showcase their skills to the industry as well. So I think it was a great fit and as I say I couldn’t be more proud of the work they’ve done. My goal really is to you know continue the conversation for additive manufacturing in the community. One of our major roles at Mohawk is outreach to the community and dissemination of some of the work that we’ve done We’re in a privileged position of having access to world class facilities and a great team to partner with our industry colleagues And we want to share some of that work and some of that learning with the broader community so everyone can benefit. 