 Hello everyone, Welcome back to PJ's CAD class. Today I'm going to answer one of my subscribers questions about this Cuban style chain. Are you ready? Let's get started. Before we get started, let's take a look on the resource that we can find online. Before I start making any model, I always like to take a look on how they actually constructed. so if you go on google and type Cuban style chain, you gonna see these all different kind of length, and the size, but they all share with something in in common. You can see the link itself it's like a wire usually this round of roundish shape, and it's a profile then you sweep them. They become one link, and then you kind of twist it in certain angle, and then you cut the bottom and the top off, and then after high polish that catches the light so it's really popular chain here. With that in mind, and we can understand the structure and let's start making the model. Here's the model and I'm going to go back with the steps that I made, so you can kind of follow my thinking process so I'm going to delete all of this and that's take a look just on one link. As you can see the link it's been twisted, and it's being cut top in the bottom, and also this is some cut here and that's because I don't want you know the other link coming and blocking it, if I have another link there so that way they are not touching and it's flexible so let's take a look how I started. So I'm going to delete all of them and basically I have two shapes here. The first it's going to be my rail. The second one is going to be my profile. and then you can have any of the shape that you want you can have a completely round or completely oval. I just like this cushion looking things and they are living under the square tool and one of it on the very bottom one it has a conic corners, so if you use that with the conic corner, you can have this kind of cushion~ish looking. Okay so once we have the curve next things we wanted to do is go to surface and you can "sweep 1 rail". You select the rail you select the cross section and then you hit ENTER, then you will have this shape here. okay so one thing before you making your chain you need to make sure that. If your chain linked together they will fit, so let's take a look and put it into the ghost view. Let's take a look on this one. Imaging that I have one chain is coming here, and another chain is coming here. you need to make sure that they were fitting in this empty space. if your link is too fat and it won't fit both of them and then you're gonna have the problem later on. Okay so that's first things you want to make sure, and what we wanted to do is we need to twist this guy. Okay I'm going to use the "twist" command. it's living under the transform and you have this "twist", or you can go to the drop-down menu and then you will see the "twist" right here. Or you can simply on the command bar just type it "twist" Alright so I'm gonna use the "twist" command, and I'm selecting this object to twist, snapping into the endpoint and then holding my SHIFT key and go really close to the edge. Alright, now be careful it depends on what the next point you click, make sure you click on the right view, holding the SHIFT click on it. This time, I want to rotate it (NOT rotate it.) I wanted to twist for 90 degree and so I will type it 90, so you can kind of see this link is twisted. Alright and because it's hard for me to see. I need to make sure they are flat when they sit on the on the table, so I'm going to rotate it back 45 degree, oops, in this case it's -45 (degree) so now they are back into the flat position. Okay so I have one link over there next things I wanted to to do is to double make sure that the space that I have is still working. so I'm going to move this guy right here and just want to make sure that they are working nicely Alright, the the one I show you earlier, I need to cut down the spacing between or boolean difference spacing between, that was doing 60 degree instead of 90 degree. In this case since I have 90 degree and they are not touching each other so I don't have to do the boolean difference okay I'm going to put this back, and then the next one I wanted to do is just making a cutter. In this cutter I want this cutter go up a little bit, and depends on how big of an area you want it to be cut. Alright so let's do a test. I'm going to have that one and let's go to the front view have that block mirror (type it zeroes to my center) and mirror to the other side okay and let's do "boolean difference" this guy out off this guy and this guy. Alright so let's take a look on that and let's try it one more time that's will be here take a look alright so if this is too high to you, You might want to do 60 degree instead of 90 degree. Okay but let's take a look on this. What you can do, is using the array tool and let's go to "transform" you have "array" with "linear array" okay so I wanted to do is let's say I want to do 5 links, and then starting with the center and moving this guy holding my SHIFT key so they will be equal. Okay and then I can move it here, and just want to take a look if they are too high so I'm going to do a comparison by putting this guy to here. oh I should just move it, Alright so next I'm going to do a comparison for 60 degree we're gonna do exactly the same thing "sweep 1" you it's the real this is the cross section and then we know the size is going to fit so I don't have to double check. I'm going to do is "twist" it's going to twist from the end to the end. Going to the "right view" and type it "60". Okay and then since this is 60 I'm going to move it back -30 (degree) so you will come back like this okay and I'm going to make a cutter and move it up a little bit, almost similar like this the one we have in the position but with the earlier one and then I'm going to "mirror" to the other side. Alright let's take a look on that and that's do the "boolean difference". Alright so this one is a little bit lower but you're going to facing one thing is when you have this one here if you look at it it's kind of cutting each other, I am going to turn this one in a red color, so you know what I'm saying. Let's move it to the right so you kind of notice the black one and the red one is cut into each others, so what we wanted to do is to move this link to the other side and make a copy on that and we're gonna use the red one as our cutting object, so "boolean difference" this guy will be boolean out from those two, so now we have a cut over there if we do a test moving this back here and then you're going to see it's not touching. Alright so that's how you cutting this notch out right so we are going to do the same thing we're going to the top and use the array tool it's under the transform- array -linear array. Okay we're gonna do the same 5 (links) and let's move it eyeball it as close to where we cut that surface all right let's take a look on the render view in the perspective (view), take a look on the render view. alright so this is your Cuban-style chain. I hope you enjoy the video. Let me know if you have any questions or any other Rhino videos that you would like to see I will do my best to make a video for you. Thank you for watching I'll see you next Monday 