 Hi, this is Swann with Holocreators, and today I want to show you the king of 3D scanners, the CT scanner, a.k.a. computed tomography scanning. In 1895 Wilhelm Konrad Röntgen discovered the X-rays and shortly after that it was used in medical diagnosis to look, for example, through an arm and see a cracked bone or something. And then in 1972, a man named Godfrey Houndsfield invented the CT scanner. And then in the 2000s, these machines were used to make 3D images of parts. Cool! So that is the X-ray emitter and then you have the  turntable in the middle, and the X-ray goes through  the part and then it's projected onto the... What is this? The detector! The detector. Yeah. All right. I just explained how the  CT scanner works, but let's do it again. We have the emitter, which is the X-ray tube, which emits the X-rays. And then we have the part. This is actually the part that was in the CT scanner. So the X-rays go through the part that you want to radiograph, so through the part and then they go onto the detector. And the detector is a  plate that is 2,000 pixels by 2,000 pixels big. And this creates one 2D image, one section view of this part. And then the part is turned by an increment. So because it's sitting on a turntable, it's moved just slightly. And then another picture is taken. So what you end up with is up to 1,300 pictures of this part turning around. So you have all these section views and all these 2D images are then combined into a 3D model by a computer. And this process  is called volume rendering. And that's how you  get a 3D model of the part that was sitting inside the CT scanner. You can see it, these scratch marks, they are very slight, but they're there. And the CT scanner was able to pick it up. And there's really  no other 3D scanning technique that has such a high resolution. For CT scanning, it's very relevant what kind of material the part is made of that you put inside the CT scanner. So in this case, it's plastic. Plastic is relatively easy to CT-scan because the material is not so dense. So the X-rays can easily radiograph through the part. But if you had like a metal part, like a steel part,  it can get very difficult. And actually there is a limit to the thickness of steel that you can go through with X-rays. So plastic parts are relatively easy to X-ray, but steel is very difficult and lead is almost impossible. That's also why the shielding on the CT scanner is made of thick lead plates. So no X-rays go outside. 