 My name is Patrik Åkerlund. I work at the Materials Lab as material specialist. My area of expertise is the study of fractured surfaces – cracks in metallic materials. I work with Alfa Laval plate heat exchangers. My role within Alfa Laval is to provide qualified support and expertise within materials technology to the whole organization – from the purchase department to R&D, operations to the sales companies and customer. The study of fractured surfaces is really interesting, because it's an advanced science within material technology. In metallic materials there are different kinds of failures. You have the ductile fracture, the brittle fracture and the fatigue fracture. Each fractured surface can tell you a lot about what happened in the application, because each different fracture mode has specific characteristics. You need to go really high up in magnification in order to determine the characteristics of the fractured surface. For that we have a scanning electron microscope. With a scanning electron microscope, we can detect and characterize the fractured surface and establish the fracture mode. By determining the fracture mode, you're able to find a cause for the fracture. A fatigue fracture, for example, is due to fluctuating stresses. A ductile fracture, for instance, is due to one overload. If we can establish the type of fracture, then we're also able to support the customer with what has happened in their operation. And hopefully they can understand what has happened and caused the problem and prevent this in the future. You need really deep competence and knowledge within materials technology and fracture mechanics. You also need to have the competence with Alfa Laval products in order to solve the problem. This unique combination is fundamental for the customer, and I don't think you can find that outside of Alfa Laval. It gives the customer reliability and sustainability. I am driven in my work to increase my competence. Of course, when a customer is having a problem it's really nice if we can help them to prevent this in the future. 