 If you’re interested in producing 3D assets, you’ve probably heard of Autodesk’s 3DS Max or Maya before, but if you’re just starting out or have a tight budget, Blender should definitely be on your list of tools to check out. It’s a veritable swiss-army knife, boasting coverage for a complete 3D pipeline: from modeling and sculpting to rigging and animating. Best of all, there’s no premium price tag, hidden fees or royalties: for all intents and purposes, it’s a free download. Blender was first conceived as a rewrite of the Dutch animation studio NeoGeo’s in-house 3D toolset. A gentleman responsible for both art direction and internal software development within the company saw their pipeline at the time to be a little rough around the edges, and began building the foundation for Blender back in 1995. After a series of hurdles and accomplishments in the years to follow, Blender would go on to earn its freedom as an open source product in 2002. Today, that gentleman still has a hand in its production alongside a team of dedicated volunteers: cited by their website to include studios, artists, scientists, students, animators, modders, and more! I think we can say it’s a rather inspiring collaborative effort. If you’d like to integrate yourself into the community, there’s plenty of ways to get involved. You can join a mailing list for your area of interest to keep up with production -- be it for designing elements, scripting add-ons, or developing core functionality -- and hop onto the devtalk forum to discuss different topics about the tool, or you can just take a backseat and monitor development. Through their website, you can view roadmaps and check daily release notes to see what’s coming up and already finished. Blender’s interface is developed in a scripting language called Python and can seem a bit overwhelming to newcomers with all its bells and whistles, but like any open-source project worth its salt, there’s a handy dandy manual to help you navigate everything. If you like what you see and want to support the engine, there’s a Blender Development Fund where you can make one time contributions or monthly donations through PayPal or your cryptocurrency of choice. If you’re interested in getting a little more bang for your buck, though, you could also nab yourself a monthly subscription to Blender Cloud, where you can gain access to a swathe of tutorials and lessons. That’s all optional, though. The core experience is priceless, and covers most -- if not all -- of your project’s 3D needs. And if you’re hankering for lessons without a fee, Blender has a free fundamentals playlist on YouTube: not to mention all the tutorials out there from other users if you’re fine playing quality roulette with your lectures. But whether you decide to download a copy for yourself or toss the developers a dogecoin or two, I’m sure you’ll agree that it offers a fantastic BLEND of variety and value! 