 Hi this is Greg again at Advanced Thermal Solutions and we've had some questions about thermal interface materials or TIMs as we call them for short. Most of the heat sinks that we sell off-the-shelf have either double-sided adhesive interface material or a phase change material such as this. So the double-sided adhesive thermal interface materials, those are the attachment method for the heat sink so they just stick onto the component. But the phase change materials are used with a mechanical attachment like pushpin or our patented maxiGRIP or superGRIP attachments. So today we're going to be talking about phase change materials. Now most of our off-the-shelf heat sinks with phase change material use Chomerics T766 which has a thin aluminum facing on the phase change material. It is silver colored but our heat sinks are all anodized in certain colors like black and green, blue and gold. So if you see this silver color on the bottom that means that it has phase change TIM on it. In addition you should be able to see a little bit of the phase change material which is a purple color, right along the edge. So that's also another giveaway. So some of you have also had questions about damage to the surface of the TIM. We actually have application notes from Chomerics for the T766 material. They did several tests including a wrinkled surface and a dimpled surface. So when it comes to a wrinkled surface of the TIM, whether you can use that or not, well their testing shows that even at moderate pressures that phase change material when it softens, when it heats up and softens, it's still able to conform well to the surfaces. They found that there could be up to a 25 percent increase in the thermal resistance but you have to keep in mind that the thermal resistance of these materials is so low to begin with that even at power levels of 20 watts a wrinkled surface could translate to less than 1 degree of temperature difference. So that's really not very significant in most cases. And the same thing with the dimpled surfaces. Now they did their test with a wooden tongue depressor but it might be some kind of shipping damage that you might see or if another heat sink, the fins hit the bottom of this phase change material it could make little dimples in it. Now that showed even less of a performance impact and when these heat sinks were applied to a component and heated up and they removed them afterwards the surface was almost completely flattened back out to it's original appearance. So in that case the performance was also not impacted. For more specifics we'd be happy to send you the application notes from Chomerics regarding their T766 material. And you can contact us through our webpage at www.qats.com. 