 Hi! I'm Koert. Chief commercial officer of a social venture called Relief.iO We need to talk about the future of the 140 million people that are affected every year by sudden onset natural disasters like earthquakes tsunamis and typhoons. If there's one part of the world where disasters make daily headlines, it is here in South East Asia. When the disaster strikes many NGOs the United Nations, the Red Cross and government agencies flog in to help. And with these many actors and millions dollars of backing, you would expect that things would turn back to normal very quickly. But unfortunately this is the reality more often than not. And although UN OCHA is doing a fantastic job in coordinating large NGOs and government agencies to reduce duplicate efforts we are still far removed from the real time supply chain optimization. Getting the right goods in the hands of those who need it most. And what company is better in solving supply and demand imbalances? That's right. That is SAP. And that is also where this guy works. Meet Carsten. The founder of Relief.iO. He asked himself these three questions: Number one - How many lives can we save if we can get goods faster in the hands of those that need it? Number two - How many more victims can be helped had there been better coordination? And number three - how can SAP technology connect people and organizations involved in disaster relief become more efficient, reduce cost and save more lives? He gathered a team of passionate SAP colleagues to build something that SAP is best at: a disaster relief supply chain collaboration platform. Or in short: Relief.iO. And here it is! Let me explain how this works. Imagine I am in the field and I encounter a village with hundred families largely impacted by a natural disaster. My NGO and I, we like to help the villagers. So I create a new activity. I identify what disaster I'm working on and in what cluster the activity falls. I like to provide food, so I choose nutrition in this case. And then I select the activity type. In in this case food relief packs. I enter I need hundred packs as we're helping hundred families. And I add myself as the contact person. Then I select on a map where the hundred packs are requested for and by when they need to be delivered. And then I give the activity the status "requested". I can take a photo and I can leave comments on the situation I encountered for others to benefit. The central planner from my NGO gets notified that a new activity is generated. That person can look into the activity dashboard to see officially on a map all the activities relevant to the NGO. The planner can filter and scroll through the activities. And decide on changes to the quality, the timing and the status of the planned activities. This enables much better collaboration between the field and the office workers, as well as automated reporting capabilities for donors for example. It will increase speed and will reduce internal cost. But the real value of the platform is in its ability to an enable cross NGO collaboration. In the notifications board I can see what other activities have similar characteristics as the one that I'm planning. This matching is done by machine learning algorithms based on activity type, distance and timing. Through the notifications I can find out who from the other NGO is planning for example a similar food drop, in the same island, just two days earlier. I can use the app to reach out to that person of the other NGO. Somebody I didn't know before. To obtain contextual information, to establish if there may be overlap,  maybe we can reduce the logistics cost or even discuss joint sourcing of those food packs. In summary the relief total cloud platform has the ability to create transparency across different NGOs, government's and various other stakeholders to make them collaborate, reduce inefficiencies, duplication, efforts and cost, while saving the lives of many more people. We are currently in the process of piloting this app with a couple of NGOs in the Philippines to get more insights on the potential collaboration areas and the value the platform creates. In 2019 we hope to get more stakeholders onboard as the platform matures. If you are a donor, a government, an NGO or any other organization with interest in this great cause, please reach out to us. We are happy to work with you. It is our dream to impact millions of lives with Relief.iO. Thank you! 