 Xpress Tees got started in 2005 in Orchid Avenue in Surfers Paradise. My wife and I opened our first store there, we started, we were there for about five years then we moved to a bigger store in the Paradise Centre and about two years ago we opened our store at Harbour Town outlet shopping and now we just re-branded our store in Surfers to Xpress Tees. The in-store customisation process, we offer different options to print t-shirts. We have vinyl cutting and we have direct-to-garment printing. The benefit with us is that we offer same-day printing. So, if you come in you're able to get your shirts within an hour. Our customers simply choose a t-shirt from the large selection that we have in store; they can either choose from our stock prints or they can design their own. Our newest addition to Xpress Tees is the Epson direct-to-garment printer that we acquired from GJS. We also have a Roland GS-24 vinyl cutter that we use for cutting names and numbers. The benefits of the Epson direct-to-garment printer is that it gives us a large array of t-shirts that we can print now. Before that we are only able to print one-color designs, now it gives us the opportunity to print full-color photos in a fast turnaround time. It gives us the option of printing one or we can print 20 to 50 in a day. We were so excited to get the Epson direct-to-garment printer that we designed our new store around it. We customised our counter to fit it in and this allows our customers who come in to actually see how their shirts are being printed, whereas before it would be behind doors now they can see the whole process in motion. I think people love customised products, reason being is that they can get something that they always wanted but were not able to source it at the moment now they can come into our store and they can get a photo of themselves, photo of a family member, printed on a t-shirt the same day. I think the big thing is that we have a fast turnaround, they can get the same day they can get one shirt or they can get five shirts, it's just the uniqueness, originality and the ease of being able to do it with us. The future of Xpress Tees is to grow our business, is to grow our customer base, to let everyone on the Gold Coast know that if they're looking for a custom t-shirt, we are the ones that can offer the quality, the fast service and then hopefully open more locations in and around Queensland. 