 Hello Internet! It's me, Steve. Otherwise known as Burning Gems. I've got a little video here the unbox for you this is something I ordered and almost was most excited about having some Haribo these are the gummy bears it's two little packs of the minis unfortunately they got melted together I don't know how that happens in wintertime but yeah they'll still be on the apps they'll eat them I'm sure my cameraman and just helping me out today Sedric I'm sure he'll help me too with these  -"hello"- All right, Sedric's there. this from it's from Filastruder and they sent me a nice little thank-you note so basically this is a kit I ordered from Filastruder some stuff for upgrading my wanhao duplicator 4. my problem with that is I'm having some issues again with my extruders not working and I want to get back to dual extruders so that I can get two filaments going at once multi color for the kids stuff and anything let's see what they gave me here I got some Bowden tubing this is generic bowden tubing I'm sure it's pretty good I'll have to check it out but I'll probably put it in my box for other people because I like my Capricorn Bowden tubing so we'll see how that compares if I need that or not I see this is the e3d Chimera - CHIMERA kit so basically I have a nice cooling block here with a fan it has two "in" two for the Bowden's "in" and then two out from my filament to my extruders and here's my extruders (Hotends) they're a classic flat E3d extruders (Hotends) with the slit gone through them so they clamp and heater socks going in there and there's my nozzles ".04" let's see now I'll need some heater cartridges and look here I have two heater cartridges and two thermistors that go in them so  - "Hold on, it's not focusing!" -  My camera man says it's not focusing, I'll let him work it. Yeah, okay so anyway so I have two heater cartridges with that and of course I got a 24 volt fan that I'll be able to use for a blower for cooling down my PLA when it comes out.  I got a second 24 volt fan for future use because I figured if I'm going to make the order I might as well just order two of them. And then on top of that I have heater socks... -Hot-end socks for my volcano that's on my little monster. A little 3-pack. And I have some grease I ordered some little grease for what whenever my nozzles go in to my heat breaks. And of course  "please read documentation before use!"  very important message so that's it that's my exciting order and this project hopefully I'll have going in the next week or so and I'll get back to two color printing on my Wanhao Duplicator 4! Thanks very much, have a great day and Print on! 