 Welcome back to battery bulletin. Today  I’m going to talk about something that   nobody haven’t discussed but one of the most  important announcement from Tesla battery day.   Cell formation. Let’s briefly discuss what  is cell formation and why it is important?   Let’s break down cell production into 4 sections.  Step 1, electrode production. In this stage   we make the electrode slurry, coat them on  current collectors and then we dry them. Step 2,   jelly roll construction. We press and cut the  electrodes, weld the tabs and then wind the   electrodes and separators together. Step 3, cell  assembly, we fill the cells with electrolyte and   seal them. Step 4, end of line conditioning, where  we do cell formation, aging and grading the cells.  What is cell formation? In lithium ion  batteries during the first charge it forms   a protective layer on the electrode which is  known as solid electrolyte interphase or SEI,   this process is known as cell formation.  The SEI prevents further degradation of the   electrolyte and the electrodes. SEI is  permeable for ions but not for electrons.   Establishing a stable SEI is really important  as this governs the cycle life and the   performance of the battery cell. Similar  to electrode recipe, electrolyte formula,   the formation procedure is also a trade secret  that battery manufacturers keep to themselves.   Cell formation depends pretty much on all the  parameters such as wettability of the electrodes,   electrolyte recipe, cell chemistry,  temperature, applied current density etc.   This is how a basic charge profile looks like  for the 1st formation cycle, we apply a constant   current up to a pre-defined SOC or voltage, and  then we switch to constant voltage where the   current decays exponentially, once it reached  the limiting current, we stop charging. This   testing might be done at different temperatures to  improve the wetting of the electrodes along with   sophisticated charging algorithms and multiple  steps. This makes formation more complicated.  These are few common charging protocols  that we use to cycle batteries.   Some are Constant current -constant voltage, step  charge and pulse charge. Here are some examples   for formation cycling voltage profiles  for NMC/graphite cells. As you can see,   the voltage profile and the time  required is different in each case   due to different combination of charging  protocols and current densities.  After cell formation these cells  are moved to ageing towers.   During calendar ageing we don’t apply any current.  We monitor the open circuit voltage of the cells.   This type of ageing depends on the temperature  and the SOC of the cells. This is an example from   an ageing study which shows the relationship  between SOC or temperature with storage time.  The ageing process first  takes at ambient temperature   and then at a higher temperature between 30-50 C.  The higher temperature is to make sure the SEI is   stable at elevated temperatures and to identify  if any acceleration in parasitic reactions.   A good SEI will have a really low leakage current,  whereas an unstable SEI will continue to react and   cause parasitic reactions. Depending on  the leakage current and additional tests   these cells will be grouped. We call this  process binning. Each group consist of cells   that will perform similar to each other and this  ensures less complications in user application.  So why should we optimize formation and ageing?  Formation can take between 24 hours to 1 week,   whereas ageing could take up to 2 weeks making  this the longest and the slowest process   in cell production. Formation not only takes  more floor space but uses expensive, precise   charging electronics, environmental chambers,  which means a huge capital and operational cost.  Let’s have a look why Tesla obviously have to  improve formation. High speed continuous motion   assembly. According to this slide it could yield  7x more output. All these cells need to go through   cell formation and ageing and it could normally  take roughly 3 weeks. Now you can see it doesn’t   matter how fast that you produce these cells  unless you invest more capital to buy formation   equipment, this will always be a bottleneck. The  output of battery packs depends on how efficient   is the slowest step of the manufacturing  process, which is cell formation and ageing.  Instead of investing more money they  announced they were able to cut down the   formation investment by 86% and the formation  footprint by 75%, this is a huge achievement.  How did they improve formation? In terms  of power electronics, they revealed that   they were able to use serial charging.  I don’t know much about power electronics,   but from what I found from a company  which provides power electronics   for formation they mentioned these electronics  should be highly efficient atleast above 90%.  One of the other things that they mentioned is  recycling energy. During discharging a cell,   instead of using a load and dump that energy  as heat, you can direct that energy to a cell   that needs to be charged, this way you need only  less amount of extra energy to charge the cell.  Power electronics alone cannot take the heavy  lifting to reduce the footprint and cost.   There has to be improvements  in formation protocol as well.   I think they might have found ways to  reduce the formation below 24 hours,   This could be something similar to supercharging  where it generates heat and improve kinetics to   avoid lithium plating, they might be using high  current pulses and reduce the formation time.   What about ageing time? I took a hint from  their presentation. They mentioned that they   have learnt from cycling billons of cells. To me  personally, this means they have an incredible   pool of information about these cells. Using  big data analysis and artificial intelligence,   they might have already found ways to spot  the minute differences of perfect and near   perfect cells within a few days, not weeks. We always hear about cathodes anodes improvement   in media and I wanted to show that formation  deserves to get the same attention as well.   If you have experience with formation and  electronics please comment, I would like to   learn more about them. Thanks for watching. If  you like the video please give a thumbs up and   if you are interested in battery videos subscribe  to my channel. If you like to support this channel   check out the patreon in the description. Stay  safe and see you soon in battery bulletin. 