 Hello, I'm battery man As the battery day approaches I think I need a fact check I made a video A lot of information has already been released. My opinion on the battery is There will also be parts that empower existing opinions There seems to be some parts that are not I tried to analyze the fact check as much as possible. Viewpoints not covered in other videos So please refer to it Battery Day related issues In terms of 7 keywords It looks like the following. First, let's check the all-solid battery The all-solid battery issue begins with a person named Sendimonro. He thought Tesla He said he had an all-solid battery I also watched the video As you can see, there is also mention of Maxwell battery When all-solid batteries are released to the market, Existing batteries are now becoming useless technology. He said in the video Then the real all-solid battery Can I replace the current lithium-ion battery? Let's think about it from common sense Mass production is possible If it is cheap and the performance is good, of course it can be replaced. So, the question of cheap is not cheap Even if the lithium-ion battery was 10 years ago It is about 10 times the current price. The same goes for all solid batteries Even if it is commercialized, Expect to be expensive in terms of price Then we have to check if mass production is possible. Mass production is still difficult. Because the sulfide-based total solid electrolyte Very reactive in air So mass production is difficult Is the performance better? This can be said to be partially correct Lithium metal in current all-solid battery Because of the dendrite phenomenon There are parts that take the whole solid electrolyte thick. The whole solid electrolyte thickens A lithium-ion battery with high maturity Sometimes it is lower than the energy density. And Tesla is excellent They say they have battery technology, Toyota has been this precursor for a long time We have been investing and developing technology LG Chem and Samsung also We are working hard to develop all-solid batteries, Now Japan has a bit of technology Is judged to be ahead of Then silicone There was an issue with nanowire batteries. This was explained by Elon Musk himself on Twitter. I was locked out A company called Amprius is 100% Nanowires using silicon I said to make a battery To add my opinion on the nanowire silicon battery Silicon battery volume expansion because it is an intrinsic problem It is an inevitable problem. So, dividing this to reduce the size, the volume expansion Even if it wakes up, the damage to the electrode is lowered than when the micro-size Now there is a story saying that it can be used Then, what are the downsides to nanosize? I also say that I make it the surface area So it means that the surface area increases When the surface area increases. More side reactions follow naturally So the initial charging/discharging efficiency will be low And in the case of silicon, the SEI layer is also unstable. The SEI layer gets thicker and thicker as you cycle. Because the surface area is so large That way, the amount of lithium consumed will be more. In conclusion, all of these are cycles Leads to a reduction in lifespan The next issue is the Maxwell battery. Maxwell's battery was As discussed, dry process is used To lower the unit price This is the main point I explained If you look at the Maxwell battery Then, doesn’t the energy density increase? So what is the relationship between the dry process in terms of energy density? I will explain this part further If you use the dry process, There is no energy gain at the material level But if you look at this at the battery cell level There may be an increase in energy density You can make a thicker electrode If you look at the schematic diagram of the battery here, the electrode is more When it gets thicker, the anode and cathode Because there is more active material In conclusion, the energy density can increase. However, if the electrode is thick, There may be disadvantages that come from that. And Maxwell battery and all solid Maxwell Battery is a professor named Shirley Meng Is known to have a partnership Professor Shirley Meng, Professor at the University of San Diego, California. Like Professor Jeff Dahn, this is a very superstar professor. Although there are various fields of study All solid battery I think I'm researching because I hate power recently We are also working on cobalt-free batteries. If you look at it now, LMNO You are working on a new battery material called LMNO is an LMO that uses manganese as the material Here, by partially replacing manganese with nickel, To improve the energy density. So cobalt free 3 kinds of materials related to It can be expressed in terms of military There will be LFP or LMFP with manganese. It has a layered structure like the existing nmc or nca. Then there are spinel structures such as LiMn2O4 (LMO) or LiMn1.5Ni0.5O4 (LMNO). For layered materials, If completely pure nickel is used, the capacity is good, but Because stability is poor Researchers that improved stability by adding aluminum or magnesium Presented by Professor Jeff Dahn Next is the CATL issue. When you think of LFP NMC Korea's Battery LFP China There seems to be such a competitive structure for batteries The origin of the material If you look at it LCO in 1980 LMO in 1983 Prof. Gudinerf first opened LFP in 1997. By using batteries to develop these new materials Last year, in recognition of its merit Even won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Then about LFP and NMC You need to find out what's different The picture you see right now is the structure of the cathode material. It's green iridium So, if there is lithium in each layer like this It is called a layered structure and LFP is It’s called olivine, but the framework is more You can see that it is sturdy because of the PO4 tetrahedron. In the case of a layered structure, when lithium is removed and added, 0.5 based on LCO If you subtract more lithium than lithium, An irreversible reaction occurs, resulting in a structural change. On the other hand, in the case of LFP, if you subtract almost all lithium, Because the framework is stable There is no irreversible structural change Also, because the LFP has a constant voltage It is also used in applications that require constant voltage. As you can see, because of the difference in structure In the case of LFP, lithium was quickly removed. Even if you put it in, this structure remains stable While quick charging and discharging is possible, In layered structures like nmc, lithium is removed too quickly If you put it in, the structure may change. So the commonly known fact Rather than the symptom structure like NMC It is said that LFP is good for quick charging and discharging. Finally, thermal stability test If the graph goes up like this, then THermal runaway (thermal runaway) The temperature keeps increasing That means the battery explodes. But in the case of LFP That’s very much suppressed So there is also an advantage in thermal stability. One of the drawbacks is the energy density of LFP. LFP has a low energy density The next drawback of LFP is The energy density is low. This doesn’t come from elsewhere In creating a stronger framework Comes from additional weight gain. In the case of a layered structure, O2 On the other hand, in the case of LFP, PO4 So the molar mass increases very much That is why there is a difference in energy density. So the difference in energy density is generally Considering that the part that comes from the substance itself is significant, Seems to be However, because there is a part where the price part of LFP is strong, So in the end, the LFP Due to the low mileage you can go on a single charge, I think it can be used enough in a car So when comparing LFP and NMC When you see these details I hope you understand Then we’ll look at the one million miles battery. 1 million miles to LFP now With regard to battery catl The million-mile battery can also be checked on the news. In the case of LFP, as you know, the energy density is low In terms of the number of cycles NMC is about 3000 It takes more than a cycle to go a million miles now. 4000 for LFP I'm asking about a cycle But, as I explained earlier LFP has a very long lifespan It looks like some old data But it goes up to 3,500 cycles It can be seen that the capacity retention is around 80%. When the battery was tested, it was said that this battery is now dead. If what you see falls below 80% of the initial capacity Now this battery is dead It is said that the life span is over. When it comes to batteries, keep talking about 80 percent of capacity retention For that reason Then Jeff Dahn's Million-mile battery data is now layered I made it with NMC. These three The characteristics of this synergy effect, now won I made a million mile battery go. I used single crystal NMC Then I coated it The titanium base was coated on nmc And the one-million mile battery was introduced using an electrolyte additive. So one million miles I think the battery will be available in the near future. So that he can implement the robot taxi he is planning. The short video I’m going to show you now is an interview he gave to Ted three years ago. Providers like AN Open Chrome your house IS very best OF Stars ON the names IN the hardest word But 1 million Looking at the mile battery from the perspective of an economic moat The entry barrier doesn't appear to be that high. 'Cause this core million miles Single crystal is the core technology of battery And in the coating and electrolyte additives These are the skills most companies can do Because it enters So, like in the article you’re seeing, GM Almost all of the million-mile battery was developed As it says Other companies will have one million miles of technology. Is expected Then the last issue This is a story about internalizing batteries It is also considering buying lithium mine. Well, like this, we talked at the general shareholders' meeting. It may take some time Tesla will eventually internalize. It is a question that the battery will be 100% internalized. Mark but I think I will internalize it to some extent Because we need a more stable battery supply. When you see LG Chem or Samsung sdi The internalization rate of the cathode material is significant. LG Chemistry Department sdi Likewise, the internalization rate in the near future is reduced by 35% It is known that there is a plan to raise it to 50% Like this, battery cell makers Internalization of many battery materials Given what you are doing Tesla's battery in a way It can be seen that it is natural But when Tesla said it was internalizing the battery Our Korean battery industry is hit hard Or rather than a dichotomy like this As the battery market is growing now It seems more reasonable to interpret it as growing together. If you look at the global electric vehicle battery market outlook now, Although there may be situations where the battery is not available, The battery is not sold I think that there are few cases of damage to the company. And the battery is very competitive in Korea So, if you summarize what we have talked about so far In the case of an all-solid battery, I see it as difficult to be done in the near future. 100% silicone battery Also, it is considered difficult in the near future. I see a Maxwell battery is also possible. But when it comes to energy density improvement I think we need to check additional data And cobalt free I think it can be done in the near future But this is also the case for other battery companies I think it’s a skill that I can have CATL's LFP battery diagram For those specifications with relatively low mileage I think it can be used in electric vehicles I think a million-mile battery is also possible. But this is also a battery related company Electric car makers can do I think it’s technology And as I said, Tesla It is believed that internalization of batteries is also possible. Battery day tesla Elon said it could be the most exciting day in history What he's going to say in Musk's battery That's when you'll have to listen to it and you'll know it. I prepared I hope the video helps a little During the video editing process, news related to Quantumscape came out and I want to quickly deliver I put it at the end of the video like this Quantumscape, well known as a company invested by Volkswagen, The company is a startup company that does all solid batteries. It has been reported that it is preparing to be listed in the specification. Corporate value is about 3.3 It was valued at about 4 trillion won in billion dollars, It is reported that mass production is planned in 2024. Please refer to the news link for more details. A company called Quantumscape Known as a very famous company in all solid and field All solid electrolytes studied by Quantumscape It's called Eunyo Garnet type Garnet type and sulfide Known to study electrolytes One interesting thing here is yo When using a sulfide-based electrolyte Without using the existing oxide-based cathode material I use a sulfide-based cathode material Since the sulfide electrolyte is highly reactive, Oxide phosphorus anode When I meet Now it's a matter of life. A little of it To further alleviate Such a study using sulfide cathode materials Trends have been seen recently It was also found in the patent application. So, if you classify the total solid electrolyte into 4 categories There are Gane thyme radiocon and polymer type As you can see here, Nashikon Polymers are very stable in air Mass production, but it has an advantage in mass production. On the other hand, it’s a garnet type Or sulfide series is difficult to mass-produce, The ionic conductivity is generally high Recently, several different types of solid electrolytes have been mixed In the case of sulfide, since it is reactive Rarely do these performance cases Whether the volume is made by mixing the Whangane type Or polymer and NASICON type Mixing all solid electrolytes to make batteries Study as a research trend It seems to be one of the trends now 