 Welcome back everyone! I’m Jordan Giesige and this is The Limiting Factor. This is part five of the Lithium Mine to Battery Line Series to break down and understand what was unveiled at Tesla Battery Day. This video is the first of several that will discuss Tesla Silicon. The polymer coated silicon particles Tesla unveiled at Battery Day aren’t new, however, Tesla will likely be the first to implement them successfully. How will Tesla succeed where others have failed? Before we begin, a special thanks to Bradford Ferguson of Halter Ferguson Financial, the Patreon supporters listed in the credits as well as my YouTube members. This is the support that keeps me grinding away on niche topics. Back to Tesla Silicon. Tesla only spent 3 minutes on this part of the Battery Day presentation. This makes it one of the shortest parts of the Battery Day presentation and may have given the audience the impression that what Tesla presented was cut and dry. This is not the case. Silicon Anodes are extraordinarily complex, and scientists have been working on Silicon anodes for 50 years. I did a four-part series on graphite anodes which is a well-established technology. I could easily do a 10-part series on Silicon. What you’ll be getting today is an executive summary of Tesla’s specific approach and what might be required to make it work. That is, I’m going to highlight the challenges that Tesla’s presentation didn’t cover and give examples of the types of technologies that are needed to address those challenges. Why would Tesla want to use Silicon in their batteries? First, in order to reduce the cost of batteries and accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy, you need materials that are literally dirt cheap. Silicon is the second most abundant element in earth’s crust, and not only that, it’s relatively easy to extract from mineral sources. Second, Silicon can store roughly 9x the energy of a typical graphite anode. However, Silicon expands by 300 percent as it incorporates lithium into its structure. This expansion quickly disintegrates battery materials and shortens battery life. In the next slide, Tesla shows more detail on the types of degradation that can occur. I’ll explain each one. In fact, I found the research paper that these images came from. The title of the research paper is “Promise and Reality of Post-Lithium-Ion Batteries with High Energy Densities” by Jang Wook Choi and Doron Aurbach. I’ve cut the images from that research paper and overlayed them into Tesla’s slide so you can see exactly what I’m referring to. The first panel of Tesla’s slide refers to what the research paper referred to as pulverisation. The Lithium can only alloy with so much Silicon before it ruptures and disintegrates. However, there is a critical size threshold for when this pulverisation begins to occur. A particle below 150nm will not pulverise itself. However, particles below 150nm are difficult and expensive to mass produce. They also result in higher first cycle losses. What are first cycle losses? I’ll explain using a graphite anode. The first time a battery is charged, the electrical load on the anode particles causes them to react with the electrolyte solution. That reaction forms what’s called the solid electrolyte interphase, or SEI. The SEI protects the anode particles and increases the cycle life of the battery cell. However, there is a cost to that protection. The SEI is formed from the lithium that the battery needs to charge and discharge. Smaller particles, such as those below 1 micron and especially those below 150nm, have more surface area and soak up more lithium. This effect is so drastic that in some cases adding Silicon nanoparticles to the battery cell doesn’t provide any additional energy capacity because so much lithium is used to create the SEI layer. In other words, using particles below 150nm can defeat the purpose of adding Silicon to the battery cell in the first place. Above 150 nm, the particles begin to pulverise themselves. This once again leads to energy capacity losses. This is because the SEI forms around the pulverised fragments, which are of course less than 150nm. Up until now, exactly 150nm appeared to be the sweet spot for Silicon anode particles because it was the largest particle size that didn’t pulverise. However, even at exactly 150nm, the particles are 1/200th the size of a typical anode particle and have a huge amount of surface area for the SEI layer to form which gobbles up lithium in the battery cell. The ideal would be to have a particle that’s much larger than 150nm but pulverises in a controlled way. This would reduce the surface area without most of the negative side effects. We’ll come back to this. The way researchers usually make these high loaded silicon anodes work is by doping the battery with extra lithium. Lithium doping is exactly what it sound likes. It means adding additional lithium into the battery during manufacturing. Doping with lithium is not a first principles solution because it doesn’t solve the problem of the SEI layer gobbling up lithium. It’s also a difficult engineering problem to solve at scale. It wouldn’t be Tesla’s style to take an approach that’s not first principles and to solve a problem by adding a band-aid fix such as lithium doping. I’m also taking Tesla at face value in their presentation when they say that the 20% range increase was from Silicon. Lithium doping would be more than Silicon. The second Panel of Tesla’s slide refers to delamination. In order for a battery anode to remain functional it must allow electrons a path out of the anode to whatever device the battery cell is powering. During the charge cycle, the Silicon expands 300% and the particles push away from each other. Then, when the battery is discharged, the particles shrink, and become electronically disconnected from each other. This is because the elastic binder that holds the anode together stretches so much that it ruptures, and the particles don’t snap back into place. As a fun fact, one of the binders that researchers have used to try and fix this problem is spandex. The third panel is the gooey SEI layer than Elon was talking about. A moment ago, I explained how the SEI layer forms using graphite anode as an example. Graphite anodes expand by only a few percent during charge and discharge so it’s easier to maintain a stable SEI layer. However, with silicon, the SEI can’t form a stable surface because it pulls apart like tissue paper as the silicon expands. When the particle contracts, it leaves behind debris of SEI fragments which look like satellites orbiting the de-lithiated particle. In the next charging cycle, both the satellites and the particles react once again with the electrolyte solution and form a thick SEI layer that covers all the particles. This uses up much of the lithium in the battery and once again we’ve defeated the purpose of adding Silicon. Before Tesla shows us their solution, they show us other alternatives on the market. Most of the solutions to the expansion problem are highly engineered and therefore expensive. Tesla shows three examples on screen, but there are dozens in the literature. The approach that most manufacturers, including Tesla, are currently using is to incorporate silicon through Silicon Oxide Glass. This is the cheapest method currently available. However, Silicon Oxide Glass is limited to a maximum of about an 8% loading of Silicon by weight in the anode. Beyond 8% and the silicon oxide glass reaches the limits of its ability to remain stable and have long cycle life. Silicon structured in glass may also take a hit to specific energy capacity due to the bulky glass structure that the Silicon is contained in. One paper indicated a 30% loss in energy density due to the added bulk of the Silicon Oxide glass. The next is Silicon Structured in Graphite. Several manufacturers appear to be working on something like this. However, most of them are quite secretive and haven’t actually shown their particles. The only company that has shared their particle, that I’m aware of, is Talga Resources. On screen is one of their particles which is a perfectly spherical and highly porous composite of graphite and metallurgical Silicon which can accommodate expansion and contraction. Silicon-Graphite composite particles are capable of Silicon loadings of up to at least 30% and they can be manufactured at relatively low cost and high volume by established mechanical and chemical processes. These composites will be hitting mass production in the next 2-3 years based on the activity I see from companies like Talga. The silicon graphite composites may allow for higher loadings than Silicon Oxide glass but may not be able to achieve high cycle life without the right binder and electrolyte. Next is Silicon Nanowires. Before Battery Day, there was a mad rush of speculation that this image was Silicon Nanowires. This is a lesson in battery hype. Before getting excited about a Battery Technology, the first question that we need to ask ourselves is ‘How much does it cost?”. If it is expensive, the next question should be, “Is there an engineering pathway to literally make the material dirt cheap?” When I see Silicon Nanowires, which is a highly structured material literally built atom by atom through a process called chemical vapor deposition, the answer is no on both accounts. It doesn’t mean it’s impossible, it simply means that we need to do what Tesla’s engineers are doing: Look for something cheap and scalable or has a pathway to cheap and scalable. Finally, we come to Tesla Silicon. Tesla claims this is significantly cheaper than the other options. This leads us to the next slide where Tesla explains that their solution is a polymer coated silicon material which by implication solves the issues related to pulverisation, delamination, and the thick SEI layer. However, as we’ll see, their explanation seems incomplete. Tesla starts with raw Silicon and we can assume they grind it up into a powder. They would then dip those particles in a solution containing a polymer. There are a few polymer options here. In the SpaceX Moonshot video I showed that SilLion, which appears to be a Tesla acquisition, used polyacrylonitrile, which is the precursor to carbon fiber. However, polyacrylonitrile is not water soluble. They might prefer a water-soluble polymer, such as polymerizable dopamine, also known as PDA. That polymer-soaked powder would then need to be dried and activated through heat. Heat would force the raw polymer to form longer polymer molecule chains creating a robust polymer matrix around the silicon particle. At this point we can call it Tesla Silicon. This is of course what I was referring to earlier when I advised that the ideal solution to the 150nm particle limitation is a particle that’s larger but pulverises in a controlled way. Tesla could use silicon particles in the micron range, and the silicon would still expand and pulverise, but it would do so within the protective cage of the polymer coating. SilLion called this self-contained fragmentisation. This limits the exposure of fragmented material to the electrolyte, which stops excessive SEI growth, which stops the crumbly gooey cookie effect that Elon referred to at Battery Day. The Tesla Silicon is then added to a typical graphite anode at a loading of about 20-30%. A silicon loading of 20-30% provides nearly as much benefit as a 100% loaded silicon anode but presents fewer engineering challenges. A pure silicon anode is a very different beast than a mixture of graphite and silicon. Graphite helps buffer the silicon expansion and reduce the overall stress on the cell while at the same time storing lithium. In a later video in this series, I’ll provide more reasoning as to why I think Tesla is shooting for 20-30% Silicon. Tesla may have used artistic licence for the binder. The anode particles aren’t suspended in empty space or even a liquid. They’re entombed in a highly porous mixture of carbon and binder. If Tesla showed what the binder actually looked like, it would look like what we see on screen. A black brick and occasional places were the particles are visible. The blue ribbon is an elegant way to illustrate the binder while still allowing us to view the particles With that said, Ryan Alvarez, who was our Battery Day Correspondent, found this research paper titled “Highly Elastic Binders Integrating Polyrotaxanes for Silicon Microparticle Anodes in Lithium Ion Batteries” which was overseen by Jang Wook Choi and lead by Sunghun Choi. The paper shows a ribbon type binder, which would loop through that black brick of material. Polyrotaxanes are the self-healing polymers that have been used in smartphone covers and paints. They’re highly elastic and when they’re exposed to physical stress, their extraordinary flexibility allows them to accommodate the stress. After the stress is gone, they bounces back. Jang Wook Choi’s name should sound familiar. The research paper that Tesla lifted their images from for the volume expansion slide came directly out of a Choi research paper. This could simply be coincidence, but let’s explore the feasibility of a self-healing anode binder. I couldn’t find a spot price for Polyrotaxanes. However, the fact that Polyrotaxanes were starting to be used in paints and smartphone covers over the past 10 years indicates that the price is coming down to the point where it’s feasible for mass market products. In fact, a mass production technique has been developed that allows the material to be produced at multi-tonnes quantities. If Tesla made the chemical in house, I’m betting they could hit the cost target they would need. Even if they didn’t make it in house, Tesla would only need a few grams of polyrotaxanes per battery cell. Even if the chemical is expensive, it starts to look feasible given the small proportion of total cell cost. Each 4680 battery cell will weigh around 350 grams. Whether Tesla used a polyrotaxane or something like Spandex (which is super cheap) this would solve the delamination problem. However, in order to make the polymer coated silicon work, Tesla may need two more things besides the polymer coating and super elastic binder. In SilLion’s collateral they showed that an SEI layer would still form on the surface of the polymer coating. However, unlike what’s shown in their marketing material, that SEI layer would still crack. This is because the SEI sticks very tightly to the Silicon particle, causing the SEI to snag and tear as the silicon expands. It wouldn’t rupture completely because the polymer coating would be taking most of the stress of the Silicon expansion and the polymer coating may provide a smoother surface. However, those cracks would react with the electrolyte to from a thicker SEI than a typical battery cell and use excessive lithium to form. There may be an electrolyte that can solve this problem. A typical electrolyte contains lithium hexafluorophosphate salt dissolved in ethylene carbonate. This research paper overseen by Chunsheng Wang and led by Ji Chen suggests that by swapping out the ethylene carbonate with tetrahydrofuran and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran they were able to extend cycle life from roughly 20 cycles to 100 cycles with first cycle losses comparable to a typical lithium ion battery. The way the electrolyte does this is by forming a slippery and elastic layer under the typical SEI layer. This allows particles to expand while the slippery and elastic interlayer minimises snagging and therefore cracks. The SEI layer remains, which is sticky and provides a solid bonding surface for the binder. Tetrahydrofuran is cheap and widely available. In fact, it’s a precursor to many polymers. There were other electrolyte candidates that came up in my research. However, I chose this one because besides being a persuasive and cost-effective option, it came from the University of Maryland which has one of the best electrolyte labs in the world. A typical Tesla battery lasts 2000 cycles, which makes 100 cycles sound terrible. However, the particles Wang and Chen were cycling had a diameter of greater than 10 microns. This means the particles were nearly 100 times larger than the 150 nanometer particles we discussed before. Furthermore, the Silicon they were using had no polymer coating and no self-healing binder. The right particle size and shape, polymer coating, and the self-healing binder would each provide massive gains in cycle life. In other words, if an advanced electrolyte that can form a slippery layer under the SEI is combined with a highly elastic binder and Silicon particles in the low micron range that are coated with a conductive polymer, Tesla could very well have cracked the Silicon code. This would be an achievement that the industry wasn’t expecting to be in production for another 2-3 years. That is, a 20-30% silicon loading providing a 20% range increase at reduced cost. Furthermore, no new equipment would be required, it would be a drop in solution. What about cycle life? Even with all the innovations we see above, there’s no evidence that Tesla Silicon will exceed the cycle life of Tesla’s current batteries. With that said, there is no research I could find on cycle life for the combination I’ve suggested above, so it’s difficult to know either way. My guess is that batteries with Tesla Silicon match the cycle life of Tesla’s current batteries. However, we’ll cover this in more detail when we get the cathode section of the battery day presentation. The cathode does give us a hint at where Tesla is headed with cycle life. I don’t know if all of these solutions listed above could be stacked into the same battery cell, but there was nothing to indicate that they couldn’t be. There were some potential showstoppers I found as I worked through the research, but nothing to indicate incompatibility. Furthermore, after pulling all this together, I’m thinking that even if this isn’t exactly what Tesla has done, it’s the correct path. Taken together as a set, these innovations form a beautiful, first principles solution to driving a low cost and scalable silicon anode We’ve been using graphite anodes in our batteries for 30 years for a reason. The next logical step, which is silicon, may take all four brilliant innovations above to make silicon work. This is extraordinarily advanced technology that’s taken decades to come into maturity. In fact, it may be that Tesla is still putting these battery cells through testing and it could be 18-24 months before they’re confident enough to put them in vehicles. Tesla’s first priority will be safety and reliability and testing batteries for these factors takes time. And to further complicate testing, the line these batteries are produced on is still under development. Tesla has produced thousands of cells on the dry battery electrode line and many would have been diverted for testing. Tesla could roll out their first DBE lines without Tesla Silicon and still achieve huge gains in cost and energy density. Regardless, they’ll take the appropriate path, whether that means slowly increasing the amount of silicon or jumping directly to a 20-30% Silicon loading with the first 4680 line at Giga Berlin. In the Tesla secret sauce video, I suggested that DBE might also help make a high loaded silicon anode viable. The reason for this is that DBE forms cohesion and adhesion bonds that are over 50% stronger than a wet slurry coated electrode. Although this would help with delamination, on its own it may not be enough to solve the delamination problem. However, it should allow for higher silicon loadings and therefore higher energy density than a wet slurry coated anode. This’ll be covered further in an upcoming video on Giga Nevada. In the past, I said that it looked like Tesla was cooking something up in Broomfield Colorado with SilLion and that they might be incubating and accelerating a high loaded silicon anode from 4-5 years down to maybe two years. If this is ready to go into a vehicle today, Tesla destroyed my expectations. If it ends up being 18 months or more, I had the right idea. Many people wondered why I said my battery day predictions were for within 1 year of Battery Day. It should be very clear now why I said that. Tesla unveiled a bundle of technologies and I had to consider which technologies were ready now, and which needed a couple more years for testing. We have a lot more to cover in upcoming videos, such as whether I was expecting this approach, what it means for Giga Nevada, and myths around Tesla Silicon. And, of course, we still need to dig into the cathode, clay and salt, and the structural battery. In the next video, we’ll cover the fast charging possibilities of a high loaded Silicon Anode. Drew hinted to this possibility in the Q3 earning call where he said that the fundamental limiting factor of a high charge rate is lithium plating which can be addressed by the correct electrode design and material choice. If you enjoyed this video, please consider supporting me on Patreon with the link at the end of the video or snag something off the merch shelf below. I am also active on Twitter and Reddit. You can find the details of those in the description and I look forward to hearing from you. A special thanks to William Gibson and Nick Allen for your generous support of the channel, all the other patrons listed in the credits, and my YouTube members. I appreciate all your support, and thanks for tuning in. 