 The grand challenge that comes with energy and how we power society is how we store the energy that is developed renewably. My research was on lithium ion batteries, which is one of the best batteries for storage currently. Lithium ion batteries actually have applications in electrical vehicles, portable devices, and drones. They do not cause pollutions like fossil fuels and they have really high energy densities. We are working with silicon and were using the "self-bending battery concept" to adapt silicon for use in a battery. Silicon is a very promising material for anode, because it has 10 times theoretical a specific energy density as graphite. And it can expand as much as 300% in voltage when fully lithiated.  Some future applications for our technology for our devices are human-robot interface, where we can use this device to enhance rehabilitation for people walking, or in need of smart actuation between say, an exoskeleton and the human. I think an accelerometer that can stop power might be one application. Right now, the commercial accelerometer is usually made of piezoelectric, piezoresistant materials. They all need external power supply, but if we can apply a battery, that we designed, that can boost actuation and sensing into an accelerometer, then no power supply is needed. This is exciting because I think, it can revolutionize the energy industry. What we're doing could increase the capacity of a battery by tenfold. We have PI's in our project, so I can get ideas from mechanical engineering and chemical engineering, at the same time, so it's very interesting that to do my research in two perspectives. And so, the combination of these three PI's allows for the development of a battery, that can be used as a robot. And that can be optimized for its best use as a robot. I feel like Center would allow for more students, such as myself, to be involved into this type of work. I also feel that Center will allow for more collaborative efforts between different universities.  A new center that would be focused on lithium-ion battery research would benefit our research in particular based off of new facilities, new tools, the experimental validation of my model and simulation work. I mean, what's exciting to me is that I'm involved in what could how better the earth, the environment, society, in the future. If we can apply some mechanical method, like some people in the mechanical engineering can do, then I think that battery cannot confine itself into the chemical domain. 