 - So I'm Mike Harris, and I would like to introduce the moderator for today's panel. Professor Chung Li Yuan, you'll be happy to know that she's actually the former student of today's distinguished lecturer. So, at this point, I will turn the mic over to Professor Yuan. - Thank you Mike, and it's a great honor to moderate this panel today. And, for today, we are going to focus on the future of electrochemical storage. And, I was told, that we should go through the agenda first, very quickly. So, what we are going to do is, we will have a brief overview of electrochemical storage. Then, I'll introduce you to our distinguished panelists, here. And, then, we'll have panel discussions. And, then, we'll open the forum, to everyone here. So, we'll take any questions that you may have, regarding electrochemical storage. So, we'll start by providing you my overview of electrochemical storage. By providing you a stack of pictures. So, when we think about electrochemical storage, we think about fancy cars, that Tesla produce. We think about the grids that store energy that actually power our house. And we use them on daily basis, including smart phones. And it's very popular used in health industry, are those tiny machines, so the machine that you are looking at is, actually, a pace maker that's implanted in people's heart. And there are those batteries that we buy from grocery store. So, this is my overview of electrochemical storage. And we know we are always complaining how often we need to charge our cellphone. So, that's why we gathered this panel together, so we can get the scientific perspective of how we can get more powerful electrochemical storage units. So, we'll start by introducing our panelists. So, you've already heard from Mike, so we have Professor Lynden Arhcer, here from Cornell, and on my right hand side, we have Professor Edwin Garcia, from Material Science. And Professor Amy Marconnet from Mechanical Engineering, Professor Vilas Pol, from Chemical Engineering, and Professor Kejie Zhao, from Mechanical Engineering, and we leave the best to the last, we have Dr. James Fleetwood, from the Battery Innovation Center, here at Indianapolis. So, we're going to start our panel by having Edwin introduce his current research. - Thank you, I guess to introduce myself, I did my undergraduate in the University of Mexico, in Mexico, I got a degree of physics. Then I went to MIT to get my masters, and my PhD, in materials science. There I work with a Craig Carter, (mumbles) chatted regularly with Yin Ming Chang, on aspects of rechargeable batteries, as well. My work was mostly on the modeling and simulation of microstructure of complex materials with electrical fields. Then I had the opportunity to work on the development of software, open source software, Nist, and then I was very lucky to get hired at Purdue, where I became an assistant, an associate, and now, a full professor. What is that, a green one? There you go. Okay, so, this is just a slide show summarizing the people actually doing the work in my group. All doctoral students really are working on different aspects, not only rechargeable batteries, but in general, we have a knack for microstructure evolution, for phase transformations, for kinetics and thermodynamics. And, the two postdoctoral researchers really help, also, move this forward. I do have to always to thank the support of the people that fund me. These are my current areas of research. At the bottom, you can see, one big project that I have is kinetics of flash sintering. Where, basically, you have ions and complex granular materials have charges going through it, that's what those yellow networks that you see there, the microstructure evolution of ferroelectrics. Some work of brain growth, but you can see the top, basically the top half of this slide, corresponds to trying to understand the microstructure, the science of battery materials. Basically, how different types of granular structures, they impact the performance, and degradation, of rechargeable batteries. That's mostly what I do, and I even gave my own take on dendrite growth, which I was very excited to hear today, in today's presentation. So, that's me. - (mumbles) - Oh, yes, I forgot about that completely. Yeah, so, fundamentally, what we do in my group, is try to bring what happens at the most fundamental scale, and bring it up from say, the particle level, the mesoscale level, to see what happens when you have multiple particles brought together. How that leads to microstructural properties, such as torposity, transport properties. And when you have many of them, that becomes (mumbles) to spatially resolve them. Then, we start looking at the sample level, where we have to account for torposities, areas, densities, and, then, all that variability, how it impacts all the way to the cell module. And including the real randomness, and complexity, behavior that occurs at the in road. You can see, that little plot that you see on the top, that's the input of what you should (mumbles) of a real battery, where you have currents with all these complex shapes. Every single time you hit a break on a electric vehicle, or you try to recharge it on the fly, those should be incorporated. And you would have to include all the single crystal effects in order to be able to predict the performance and degradation. And I put that as the challenge that my group faces as we go on. And I think that's finally it. - Thanks, I'm Amy Marconnet, and I'm an associate professor, here at Purdue. A little my background is up there, but I did my masters and my PhD at Stanford, on nanoscale heat transfer. And then I spent a year at MIT, working as a post doc on thermal transport in more, it was a soft material. After that, I started here as an assistant professor, and now I'm tenured. And my lab is the Marconnet Thermal and Energy Conversion Lab. So, we work in a broad space, on heat transfer problems, energy storage problems, et cetera. And I have a wide number of projects. Today, I'll just talk a little bit about our work, and motivation for work, on electrochemical energy storage. So, here's a brief snapshot of some of my grad students, they're the ones who do the hard work in the lab. And here's my take, I think I have a few orders of magnitude more in length scales, on my chart here. But, we work at trying to analyze the heat transfer in electrochemical systems across the length scales. And, so, at the micro and nano scale, we focus on how the particles and grains impact the thermal transport, and how we can affect the structure of the electrodes through the processing steps. So, there's an example there of a sheer cell, where we can control sheering of granular particles. Similar to how electrodes are made. And try to understand the thermal transport, through this porous structure. At the meso scale, there as you see, from a few microns to tens to hundreds of microns, we work on thermal property analysis. Trying to characterize the thermal conductivity, and the heat generation, within the electrodes of batteries. So, I show one example of a measurement technique, that we've developed, to characterize the thermal conductivity, or the effective thermal conductivity, of individual electrode layers. And we were one of the first groups to actually, directly, measure the thermal interface resistance, between layers of the battery stack. And especially between the battery stack and the case, which was important for a NASA application. And, then, at the macro scale, we really want to understand how these systems integrate into systems like electric vehicles, and understand how you get heat out of these systems. So, we do some thermal performance analysis of cells during operation, and then we hope to integrate those results into models of performance. I'll pass it on then. - Thank you, good afternoon. I am Vilas Pol, faculty of chemical engineering, I joined here 2014, January. I am from (mubmles) University, I did my two masters, Masters of Science, and Masters of (mumbles) in Chemistry from (mumbles) University, which is also called as Osca of the East. Then I moved to Israel where I did by PhD under professor Doran Arbok, and Ger Dankin, and as everybody knows, Doran Arbok is the best electrochemist in the world. He really digged down the electrochemistry very well. Then I did post doc in a solar cell (mumbles) di-solar cell, with Professor Ariz Zaban, from the same university, back in 2005 and 6. Then I moved to Argonne national lab, as a director's postdoctoral fellow. Followed by that, I was an assistant materials scientist for a year, and then became a materials scientist, and I work with Michael Takory, who is also a pioneer in batteries, typically cathode science and technology. And then I joined Purdue. This is my group in 2019 somewhere, now there are more student joined to my group, very recently. So, we do work on a variety of batteries, such as lithium, potassium, sodium. As you know, that, Elon Musk is busy in making the giga battery and putting the batteries everywhere in the cars. But, my small group is busy, actually, making really small batteries, and putting in the small toy cars that can earn my son's time. Last year, we played that in the snow. This year, there is no snow, so we couldn't play. But, we do take help of battery innovations, with James, and he make out cell for us. At some point, we are dreaming that our battery should be sitting in all your devices, including cell phone and electric vehicles. So, that's the object here of our PUBS, Purdue University Battery Systems. So, as you know that, there are four, five, unique challenges that we have to tackle. And that can help you to direct some of the questions. So, batteries are very expensive, still they're expensive, we want to make them inexpensive, so we have to go with abundant and inexpensive materials from the periodic table. Safety is a paramount, and that is the code of my lab. Thermal safety, mechanical safety, operational safety, kind of, aspects. We do work, routinely, for all the electrochemists, when we can, they all love. Battery life is typically very small, and that is due to the electrochemistry that we will hearing today. Electrolyte is highly corrosive, so typically battery life is three to five years, we want to have them for 15 years. Battery also does not like very low or hight temperature. They are like human beings, they are preferring to stay in the room temperature. Because of the electrolyte that boils at high temperature, and freezes at low temperature. And, now, we are around 7.8 billion people on Earth, and we already have 15 billion batteries with us, and we do not know how to recycle them. So, we are also having another, new, challenge, how to recycle batteries. And we have to tackle all these problems together, in order to make our future better. Otherwise, it looks like a broken glass. Now, my lab works on a variety of things. We do work on Lithium ion traditional electrochemistry, that will be there, that is there. Lithium is abundant, lithium is not abundant, it is expensive, but lithium ion batteries will be there forever. Next generation batteries are sodium ion batteries, potassium ion batteries, and lithium metal batteries, like lithium sulfur, that can give you three to five times higher energy density. But, they come with their own problems. So, typically, all of them, what we do is try to explore new materials. But, beyond that, are they safe? That is the fundamental question we are trying to dig down. With that, I will pass it to Kejie. - Thank you, so I'm Kejie Zaho, assistant professor of mechanical engineering here. I got my bachelor form Shen Zhang University in China, and then I went to Harvard for a Masters and PhD degree. And after that, after spending two years as post (mumbles) I joined Purdue chemical engineering. So, my research is mainly on mechanics of materials. And I'm working on two types of materials. One is a redox active materials, mainly on battery materials. And the other type of material is a polymeric material, and softer material. And, in terms of battery materials, we developed all kinds of experiments to manage the mechanical behavior of battery materials during operation of the batteries. And, also, developed theories, and (mumbles) simulations to understand how the mechanics and chemistry they're coupled together. And in terms of polymeric materials, we are working on organic semi-conductors and (mumbles). So, just in the context of electro energy storage, for the battery materials, we have two basic research questions to answer. One is how do electrochemical process, such as the ion transport, charge distribution, and interfacial reaction, phase transformation, how those elements of electrochemical process induce the mechanics of the battery materials. And, second though, is how do the mechanical stresses, and mechanical degradation, influence electrical performance. Such as capacity, and voltic responses, and cycling efficiency of battery materials. So those are the two basic research questions we are trying to answer. And, in terms of the experiments, one of the harder of the experiments is do we development a (mumbles) experiments. Try to manage the mechanical behavior of the materials during the charge and discharging process of batteries. And, also, through the understanding of the mechanics we're trying to understand the chemistry. Like, how, what is the mechanic limiting process for battery materials. And one hot idea for the (mumbles) part is that we try to develop the computational modeling tools to understand the mechanics failure, and, also, the battery performance, and see how they couple together. So, that's pretty much my research on batteries. - All right, I'm James Fleetwood. PhD out of Purdue, actually, as well as bachelors. And now I'm back again, so I guess I must like this place. Since then, I've been at the Battery Innovation Center. Have a little bit more on the next slide about what the BIC is all about. But, the core of the what the BIC does, and what I do, is really more of the integration of what everyone else here on the panel learned. You know, there's so much good science already out there, so much more to learn, but a lot of what I do is catch the industry up with what everyone here is doing. And, so, I end up working with, working at more of a system level, and integrating components. So, with that, I've worked with, just about, every chemistry and component at this point. So, we're talking high nickel intercalation cathodes, the lithium sulfur chemistry, a lot, lithium air, which is extra challenging. On the anodes, that's actually where the majority of the work is probably been carbon series. Particularly we're talking silicon, but anything in the carbon series. Composites thereof, particularly carbon composites, and then navel morphologies. My favorites are rods, but all of the above on that one. Electrolytes, again, typically we're talking about working at various additive structures, and how to form better SCIs, more robust SCIs, high-voltage stable SCIs. Room temperature ionic liquids, solid electrolytes, being mostly polymer and sulfide, where polymer doesn't mean, literally, just polymer. And, again, since we're more of an integrator, what I work on is more the strategies of putting these together. So, it's often, you know, there's often a lot of science on how every individual component behaves. But, not necessarily how they interact with each other. Particularly in a high performance environment. And that largely comes down to interfacial control, which is why I gave it a nice underline on the bullet points here. Otherwise, you're talking about, you know, electron lithium ion transport balance. You know, it's almost, not often a big focus, but, in some ways, it's almost, like, your fuel air mixture in an engine. If these things aren't balanced, it actually can lead to a lot of other problems. And, with that, comes you combine the two of those, and you have why you need surface protection methods. Particularly for high-voltage cathodes, or they were talking about SCI protection on the anode. Another big area, which does get more into the fundamental research side, would be, the secondary lithium sources. That's added components that are pre-lithiated, pre-lithiating electrodes electrolitically. Or having, some sort of, phase decomposition compound that releases lithium into the other compounds. Like the LMRNC system, where you have an Li2MnO3 structure that breaks down, or releases lithium, and compensates for (mumbles) efficiency, and gives you mitigating strategies to get high performance for moderate cycle life. Beyond that, it's all about real logical control, to then develop specific microstructures, or heterostructures, which ties back into manufacturing processes. Often times, I'm trying to translate, say, someone did chemical vapor deposition to create a battery, and it was amazing, but I have to make it cheap, so I have to tape casting. And I have to figure out a way to make a slurry solidify, in a way that somehow approximates vapor deposition. Which is, also, not easy. Beyond that, we're just talking about, really, any other component. Largely, those are about getting efficient, getting things more efficient. Thinner, lighter, current plector separators. Binders get a little bit more interesting, where you're talking about, not just, sort of, molecular weight control, or something like that. But, function wise, polymers or block co-polymers are getting pretty exciting, for me, on the conversion chemistries. That's one where I've, I'll save that for one of the questions, actually, on the follow-up. And, generally, conductive additives, the key point there, would probably be, the term dispersed nano-carbons of fuller rings. So, carbon nanotubes or graphene. Finding strategies to act to the microstructure design, and the cost side, to make a cost effective battery with carbon nanotubes in it, you need, like, a quarter weight percent, or half a weight percent, of carbon nanotubes. If you could put all you wanted in there, you could create a great battery, but for cost you need it to be a very small amount. And, if you only have a quarter weight percent, you need to put it exactly where it's supposed to be. In order to have that impact. Beyond that, much more on the practical side, dabbling in the modeling here, but the thermal transport optimization of EV pack design, that's one area that is way, way beyond, behind the science. The Evs on the road today are, thermal behavior and transport was a second thought, or a third thought, in many cases. In the case of Tesla, they released their first electric vehicles without even doing anything about thermal transport. And, now, people are doing some, but there's still a lot of open areas, there, I'll talk about. So, taking a step back, just talking bout the BIC, and what the role is, I may have alluded to it, a little bit, in my work, but it really is, we're really suppose to be a bridge between universities and academia, and industry or Department of Defense, Department of Energy. We're a very collaborative entity. And, so, a lot of the reason I've worked with so many different projects is that we're, almost, like a user facility, in some sense. You know, individual research group, or start up companies, bring their individual material, that they created, to the BIC. I pull it together with other people's advances, and we create integrated systems. And then we don't hold intellectual property, or protect intellectual property, and, again, it's a way of innovating fasting. One of the gaps between all the science we have, and the actual industry we have, is everyone being afraid that their ideas are going to be stolen if they work with other people. You know, if you go back 100 years, which maybe is why we have this problem, Tesla and Edison, people used to work together a great deal more, and share information very openly. And that, kind of, has pulled back and stopped. And the BIC is, sort of, an initiative to get us back to where we were. Back to that fast innovation that we used to have. And, to do that, we offer a broad set of capabilities. Again, advanced cell manufacturing, prototyping. We have about 2,000 square feet of less than 1% humidity dry room, if you want to work with raw lithium metal, you need a very dry place. And we can make cells, from coin cells, to pouch cells. 18650s, pretty much, you name it, we can build it from scratch. And, then, we can do any sort of test on that cell, all the way up to megawatt hour systems. Just yesterday, I don't think I can name the company, but we blew up an electric vehicle pack, it was exciting. Usually, you don't intend for it to blow up, but you have to know what will happen when it does, in order to be safe. Beyond that, again, applied research and consulting, kind of, across the board in industry, when people, I've helped set up electrochemistry labs in the U.S., or manufacturing facilities. So, we, kind of, consult across the board. We're a networking entity, so I don't have all these answers, but I know people who have the answers, like Vilas, for instance. And I'll refer, and connect. Again, sort of, this idea of sharing information, of networking together, of accelerating this innovation. And, again, getting all this great science out into practical use, which we're so behind on. With that... - So, wow, fascinating work, let's give a quick applause to all the panelists for their wonderful scientific achievements. And we'll start our first panel discussion question. So, the common word that you have heard a lot, today, from every single panelists, are challenges. So, what is the major technical challenge, from your perspective, in electrochemical storage, nowadays, and what do you perceive as the best strategy to address those challenges? So, we'll start with out distinguished lecturer today, so, Dr. Archer, what do you think? - So, well, first of all, thanks for organizing this panel. This is different, and it is good to learn about all the nice work that is going on at Purdue. So, the major challenges, from my perspective, come in, essentially, three bins. So, one bin is cost. We have to be able to make batteries that are cheaper, more accessible. The second bin is safety. We have to make batteries, and battery systems, that are safe at scale. And, to give you a perspective on this, it's, you know, it's okay if one EV blows up, but it's not okay if, you know, five blow up. That is certainly not, if they start blowing up in a chain reaction. And, so, I think this question of safety's likely to become even more important, as the number density of EVs on the road becomes important. And, I guess, the third aspect, I think, is going to be manufacturing. I think the, I would argue, that the barrier to implementation of some of the best ideas in science, that you hear about, isn't really that we don't know how to integrate them into cells, but we don't know how to manufacture them at reasonable cost. In other words, pretty much every battery manufacturing operation is a unique entity, and we need to learn how to leverage things like semiconductor fabs, and that sort of processing, to do battery processing at scale. To be able to, you know, have faster pathways for adoption of some of the cool things that are coming out in research. - [Chung Li] Thank you, let's hear from (mumbles). - Thank you, I completely agree with what you're saying. I would add to that, that the challenges you referred to, by themselves, have their own challenges. Mostly because, in order, for example, to understand the science behind proving the safety of the batteries, one has to be able to have the experimental information, both at the macro scale and at the microscopic scale. At the microscopic scale, even though, as James was alluding, there's a lot of fear of sharing data associated to the particular intellectual property. Us scientists are in great need of having the experimental data, both microscopically and macroscopically. Microscopically, for example, if you look at the published literature, maybe you can find statistics on 150 cells, right, and that barely makes it, in order to be able to understand what happens at the micro level. And on the macrostructural level, or even mesoscopic level, even further down, being able to understand how the batteries behave, and having reliable data that we can then use to propagate into models, and theories, and designs. I think the industry have moved ahead so fast, that left all that basic science behind. I mean, and not just from gathering the data, from where I stand, in order to develop theories and models to describe it, these days, for example, to predict degradation, the failure of a cell, what is done, the state of the art of being able to predict the degradation of a battery, you do an average model, and from that average model you predict the degradation of the cell, at most, for say, three months, and your code will run for two weeks. And then, from there, you extrapolate for two years, and, then, try to make a conclusion based on that. I think everyone in this room would agree that you cannot extrapolate the equivalent of three months to two years, or five years; because, there's a lot of stuff happening under road conditions, that are actually impacting on the degradation of that cell. And as a user, you don't want to use a cell that you fear, or may fear, that will fail in a catastrophic way. So, in that perspective, I think those are the two, are the two challenges that the, just the challenge of addressing safety, and we do want safe batteries, need to be addressing. - I'll pick that up from there. First, on the manufacturing point, which I want to support in as strong words as I can, and I want to give an example, a little bit more explicitly, so we've been dropping the cost, dramatically, in cells, cell cost, and pack cost, in recent years. Which is great, although, really, the reason is largely because of how poorly we were making them. So, there's so much room for improvement. The case is still there. In fact, my biggest complaint about how we manufacture today, as much as I would love to even develop entirely new manufacturing processes, is that it's batch processing. Which is, really, odd for the year that we're in. People have invented the continuous manufacturing process, pieces, applied it to other industries. Comically enough, a lot of the industry that we replaced had the continuous, so backstory on role-to-role manufacturing, magnetic tape disk, and Kodak film. Those windows became obsolete, we had all this leftover equipment, and we started applying it to batteries. And we started, just, like, well, let's simplify it, and let's just keep doing it that way, and let's not change things; 'cause we don't understand what those changes will do, and if you do a continuous, the biggest argument I hear is, if you do continuous manufacturing, how are you going to track all those bad cells we're always making? We have to know when we're in each batch, because we have to throw entire batches out all the time. We have to have A, B, C, D and F cells. You know, you make a few hundred liters of slurry, and the slurry may be stable the entire time, but it's not the same throughout that time. You make a big roll of electrode, you coat one side, then you coat the other side, and now side one is dried a little differently than side two. You calender them in a fully dry state. You put them on these giant, multi hundred meter, rolls, then you try to vacuum dry them on these rolls, and so the outside ends up being more dried than the inside. The edges end up more dried than the inside. It's all inconsistency, and this is when I'd go back to an enology of corrosion. You know, batteries function very similarly to corrosion, where the path of least resistance kills them. Any variation in a cell, that's the worst thing in the cell. We don't need to necessarily invent new chemistries, or vast improvements to the fundamentals, we just need to make more uniform and consistent cells. And that's one of these things continuous manufacturing does. And it also, of course, ultimately, makes it cheaper, as well. So, that's what I'm a big proponent of, and again, the equipment basically exists. No factory in the world has currently installed an entire continuous manufacturing line. Beyond that, I would say, if I went on the more fundamentals, it's probably electrolyte-electrode interface. Particularly SCI formation, even outside of lithium metal cells. You know, I don't really like it when everyone describes the system as a phase mosaic, that doesn't sound very explicit to me. With that, I might give the others a chance to talk. - Okay, Dr. Marconnet. - Thanks, from my perspective, we're trying to improve the performance of batteries. But, we can't sacrifice the safety and reliability. And a lot of the safety and reliability challenges, that have come up, have been thermal driven. And as James mentioned earlier, thermal has often been in the back seat. So, I think, one of the major technical challenges is getting thermal engineers into the drivers seat, let's say. And integrating thermal design into the design of batteries, and so, if you look at cylindrical cells in particular, and show it to anybody who studies heat transfer, that geometry is one of the worst for dissipating heat. So, I think we radically need to think about is there a different geometry, let alone, materials and chemistries, that could improve the performance of these batteries. - Okay, I will take a different spin here. So, we heard the fundamental problems, there are major five problems that I elaborated, and there is applied problem, but more than that, technologically, we are not making our own batteries. Even today, Tesla is making better, Techologis, Panasonic. So, the reason is the materials. Where are the materials? First of all, lithium copper dioxide is a traditional cathode, we do not have enough copper. You know, copper prices are going up. Lithium prices also going up. There are only few mountains left, in Bolivia and Chile, that has lithium source. And half of the lithium, whatever they produce, China already bought it. So, we have limitations, so, that is a technological problem to all electrochemical energy storage devices. We will have lithium ion batteries, but, certainly, we will have to go beyond that in order to store all of our renewable energy, at some point. So, lithium ion battery has challenges, similarly other electrochemistries have challenges. But, major problem is rely on the materials science and chemistry. Where is the material, what are the materials? And then the problem comes, it is thermally safe, unsafe, how much energy can dissipate or not. But the problem lies on materials. - I might just add one point about the challenges, significant challenge regarding battery materials. In addition to the three pillars, safety, cost, and manufacturing, it's, I think, another significant challenge, is very difficult to push the frontier of performance of the battery; because, batteries are truly complex systems. And we often joke that when you solve one problem in batteries, you often create 10 more problems in batteries. I think it comes from the complexity in two senses. One is, really complex engineering material system, it contains hard materials, and soft materials, liquid materials, and interfaces. And when you innovate one part of the materials, and then you need to have the same innovation of the systems. So, this is really a system, a system of engineering. So, if we think about the Moore's law for computer chips, the innovation for batteries are far, far below the innovation pace for the computer chips. There's challenges comes from the complexity of the science behind, I would say that battery is a truly modus skill system. From down to the atom scale, micro scale, to the macro scale, and, also, it's mode of physics system. It comes from the chemistry, the physics, materials, and mechanics, more recently. So, for example, I'm working on mechanics and materials, and we're particularly concerned about the mechanical degradation. There was a facture in the binding, and the fatigue of the battery material. As Professor Garcia commented that this mechanical degradation has become a limiting factor for, like, a solid state battery materials, and for this high capacity materials. And how to understand, if we want to push forward those high energy density battery materials, and mechanical degradation will become really issue, bond like issue. So, that's my comment. - Well, now we have heard all about the challenges, as an engineer, what do we want to do next, is we want to come up with solutions. So, this leads to the next question that I want to ask all the panelists. So, we have engineers working different sectors, industry sector, academic sector, or someone like Dr. Fleetwood, who works to connect us. So, how can advances in fundamental science can contribute to the design of next generation electrochemical energy storage system? So, we have already heard example from the wonderful talk from Dr. Archer today, so and, I want to have the panelists share their opinings, about this critical questions. And we'll actually start with Dr. Fleetwood, so he can tell us what is his view from the other side of the fence. - Oh, great, great. I won't dig more into the interfacial stuff; because, admittedly, that was top on the list. I would say, beyond that, a few more phase diagrams would be nice, in terms of the complexity of the system. I'm asking for quaternary plus phase diagrams from you, could you get me that? For every structure of manganese oxide, for instance, that can exist and every substitution possible, that would be great. That's maybe asking a lot. I think there still is some on the fundamental materials, that aren't there. And the, some of the formation mechanisms, I think. Another area, I would say, that's, maybe, more of a methodology on the fundamental science, is going back to the complexity of the system. Oftentimes, in order to get a result, the system is simplified so much that you can still learn from it, it still gives you a step, but sometimes, it's, maybe, oversimplified, as you actually gave a good example of. And, with that, my greatest complaint is, usually, when we talk about electrode formulations that people use in a lot of journal articles, like you see a lot of by weight electrode formulations, which is already a problem. When you go into the lab, and you mix something, and its a solid, yeah you weigh mass. But, when you talk about the function of the electrode, the mass does not really have much relevancy, and so it's already saying, well why are we standardizing to 80-10-10 or 90-5-5, doesn't make a lot of sense, to me. The other side of that is, you think of a one to one comparison, you say, well I took five materials, and I analyzed it, I characterized them in this way, and every one of them was 90-5-5, cause that's one-to-one, and often times, you know, when I go back and I try and repeat someone's results, and I look through it, and yeah like I got that result, that formula is best for that material. The result wasn't that result, you found an optimized formula for one material, that happened to be 90-5-5, or closer to 90-5-5. Another one might have been 91-4-5. You know, that little tiny change. It goes back to this idea of it being a system, and again, I sometimes use it as a rough analogy of thinking of an engine; because, I usually feel like people understand engines a little bit more, where, you know, the chemistry side might be saying it's a gas engine or a diesel engine, but the exact, you know, the exact fuel to air mixture, the size of and length of crank arms, and everything. Even though we don't think of a battery as having moving parts, it is extremely dynamic as we, kind of, saw with some of your presentation, there are a lot of moving parts, they're just microscopic. Or nanoscopic, and so you still have to, kind of, design it like a machine. Back to the chemistry example, if you try to do a one-to-one gasoline to diesel comparison, with one engine, well, only one of them might work. And you're not going to really find out what you need. And so, that would be some of my complaints. - Okay, so next generation electrochemical energy storage devices, you might have heard that we need put more than one electron into the system. Lithium ion, lithium plus, only one lithium shuttle back and forth. We have to find two or three multi-valent electrons, which can shuttle back and forth. So magnesium chemistry can do that, Mg2+, calcium can do that, but there is a problem everywhere. The anode is a problem, cathode is a problem, electrolyte, nobody knows what can work. Also, the cost and other benefits, we will have to look at. So, typically, the next generation batteries that we are thinking to come to the market could be sodium ion technology. Sodium is abundant and inexpensive. However, the problem lies on sodium is completely different, NaCl formation, and shuttling of sodium into amorphous carbon, versus graphic carbon, is totally different. So, we can not just mimic the chemistry of lithium ion and put it on the sodium ion and say that it works. So, all the fundamentals that we are trying to dig down, with all our owns techniques that we have today, photon source, variety of X-rays, excise technology, or NC2T, among many others, that is the way we are trying to dig down the fundamentals, how the next generation batteries are going to come to us, and what are the problems. So, there are many problems, than solution, for the next generation batteries, as you know. Last 30 years, we did not progress too much, Sony was the first company to bring the batteries to us, typical lithium ion batteries in 1991. And until now, from that time, we did not progress too much. We might have increased the capacity by 50% or so, but not more than that. So, in order to go to next generation batteries, such as lithium sulfur system, where two lithium can be connected to sulfur, Li2S chemistry, we will have the battery three times much more energy dense. But the problem, everybody was saying, that nobody knows the safety aspect. How (mumbles) is the plus one, we are digging down, how safe those batteries are. We had a very good discussion today, actually, we are making separate batteries than we have today in your cell phone, using multi valence system, where we can store more energy and still make the battery safe. So, there are pros and cons, we will five to 10 more years. - I found very interesting your comment about the quaternary phase diagram. Mostly, because, I feel from my side of the fence, I feel the same way about asking to the industrial part of the fence, "Hey, you have any data so I can figure out "the quaternary phase diagram?" So, I think, to me, the biggest issue isn't closing the gap between what the industrial side may have and what the academic side may have. To me, that's one issue, right? And lets just pretend for a second that I have happen to have that quaternary phase diagram, then what do I do with it, right? Because, if I have the fanciest chemistry in the world, that in my benchmark laboratory, or in my computer, it's telling me that this is going to be the next big thing in rechargeable battery technology, I still need to figure out the science from scaling that up, okay. Which, then processing becomes a huge deal, right? So, that power and energy density doesn't get diluted as I go up from the smallest length scale, all the way to the new electric vehicle, okay. And, to me, that's really the biggest issue. On being able to scale that up, right? To scale it up in a consistent way, where I, not only, account for the average response of the cell, but to the error bar. Because, one single cell will give me one voltage as a function of time, if I look at tens of thousands of cells, that will give me a whole distribution. And if I am on, let's just pretend for a second, that I am trying to sell an electric vehicle on a lot, I have to convince the buyer that that particular cell is gonna be worth the money of the person that is trying to buy it, right? That, actually, that person that is going to buy that electric vehicle, he will save money from using that car. And, I think, that science is not there yet. And, I think, if we develop that fundamental science, you know, from atoms all the way to the lot, I think that will be a huge deal. - And I'll just echo his sentiments. My thoughts were that we need to break down the barriers. Both on campus and academia, between different research areas, and also between academia and industry. I was going to point out, and it has been already, we often do small scale experiments in the lab, and we need to gain the trust of the industry partners, to get those things implemented in next generation systems. - [James] I'm only 100 miles away, just come on by. (laughter) - Sure, I think there's no doubt that fundamental science is a driving force for the technology. I want to add the other side, to kind of comment that, I think this battery technology, or energy storage technology, actually, brings tremendous opportunity for (mumbles) as we are. Right, so, there are many questions we never thought about, actually. For example, in the chemistry field, there is very little consideration, or theoretical framework, for how to consider all the stress, of regular chemical process, like ion transport, and charge transfer, and phase transformation. And, similarly, for the mechanics fields, there is not much work being done on how to consider the chemical driving forces. Into how those chemical processes, driving the mechanical diversity, the mechanical field. I think one side is how we use this fundamental science to drive this technology development. The other side is, probably, (mumbles) this technology. To consider the new frontier, or to branch a new science, at this interface of physics and chemistry and mechanics. - Yeah, so, I'll just say two things, a lot of really good points have already been made. But, so, I want to step back a little bit, and just point out that the rechargeable battery won the Nobel Prize last year, for good reason. It is an exceptional device. And, so, if you listen to the discussion up here, you might think it's a mediocre technology. But, I challenge you to find any other closed system, closed system, that can operate for three years, continuously, without fail, and retain 80 plus percent of its initial energy. It is just remarkable. And I challenge you, further, to think of this, the, all of the electrolytes that are in current use today are reductively unstable at a potential of the anode, inside this battery that I just described, this closed system. So, I think that the reason why the lithium ion technology, this generation, has been so resilient, is that it's just so exceptional, in terms of it's ability to retain charge and prevent degradation over extended periods of time. That I'm not aware of any other chemical system that has that, sort of, durability, over time. Now, when I think of the next generations, one of the things that has influenced me, a lot, is that I started a company, about seven or eight years ago, out of technology that came out of my group. And one of the things I learned, is that the next generation is actually not decided by any of us, but decided by the market. That, ultimately, the next generation is set by the things people are willing to pay for, at the cost that you're willing to make it. And, when I look at what the future looks like, I see basically two things as the drivers for that adoption. I see the emergence of autonomous robotics, that absolutely are going to need batteries. And they are likely not going to be the ones that we are using today. In part, because as I started with, those technologies will be interfacing directly with humans. And so, the room for error, in terms of safety, is going to be zero. And insurability is going to be a pretty substantial factor, in terms of their acceptance. And, so, thinking about systems that are intrinsically safe, I think solid state is one of the things that people have, essentially, converged on. Because of the fact that there is no volatiles, and so fail is, likely, safe. And, so, I think, breakthroughs in terms of being able to understand transport in solids. Being able to maintain this high durability, over time, in solids, is going to be important. I think of the other driver, and the other driver is, just, the tremendous cost reductions we've seen in energy generation, from renewable technologies. Now, that sector has no patience for high cost. If you cannot get the cost of whatever the next generation technology is below two cents a kilowatt hour, no one cares what it is. And, I think, because a pretty substantial part of getting to that target is really about how long your amortize the acquisition cost, it means you have to develop systems that are, sort of, quasi open. And so, this is where things like the flow batteries, and so forth, that you may have heard about, I believe, excel. Because, these systems allow us to, essentially, do what the lithium ion technology is able to do, but in an open format, that allows us to fix errors as the system progresses in time. There is, I know my moderator wants me to stop, but I'll make one last observation. I think there's another scale of opportunity. And that scale of opportunity, I think, comes from the world of data sciences. Where we now have capabilities to collect tons and tons of data, and to, basically, reduce the data into, kind of, parsimonious, minimalistic, analytical forms, that allow us to use cheaper controllers. And so, I think, a battery future, in which we begin to think of the cells as belonging in a pack, where all of the members of the pack don't have to do the same thing, don't have to be the same, but they can be designed to excel at individual things, and we utilize the tools of data science and systems control, to integrate function over that pack, I think that, to me, looks like a future that might be affordable. That can meet the needs of new technology. - Now, I think it's a good time to open the forum of discussion to all of the audience. I'm sure we have questions here. Okay, so we'll start with you. - I would be interested in knowing the perspective of you on recycling of the batteries. - He's my student, you should take the question. (laughter) - Well, this is, I sit on the board of, I think, the only company in the US that recycles lithium ion batteries. And, I kind of urge you to think about this, upwards of 97% of the lead that is used in your car lead acid battery was in another battery, in a previous lifetime. And so, we, kind of, know how to do this, and to maintain cost, in the context of lead acid batteries. And why do we know how to do it so well? We know to do it well because there is a penalty on it. Lead is dangerous, toxic and so forth, and so recycling it is actually a requirement. The, I think a similar paradigm has to develop. And it's a very interesting paradigm. Because, you hear lots of discussion about, you know, let's remove cobalt; because, we have a low supply. Or, the US market, it's expensive. But, if you think about that from the perspective of a recycler, cobalt is actually the most valuable part of the battery. If you remove it, what is the incentive to recycle that battery? And, so, my view is that to make progress, we've got to, now, integrate recyclability in the cost factors of the battery. We have to integrate the, so-called, lifecycle cost, when we decide which technologies to pursue. I can say a lot more, but I'll stop there. - I just want to add to what you just said. Last time I checked, in the world there are really two plants that are recycling batteries. One is in Detroit, and the other one is in Barcelona. The rest of the batteries, if you want to recycle them, first you burn them in this big open field in Africa, and from there you move it around, right? That, by itself, at least to me, I found it an outrage that that's what is happening. Now, I don't know if it's still happening, but as lithium resources, as Vilas pointed out, that the amount, the number of mines are limited, and they're being depleted, the next mining field is going to be the trash can, right? And, I think you will find, probably, more lithium in a battery that you toss, than in a depleted mine. And, I think, in that sense, even if we remove, I think that, even if we remove cobalt, I think there going to be a lot of, what do they call them, trash divers? You know the people that actually go and look? Yeah, there will be a lot of professional dumpster divers. Trying to get the lithium out. - So, can I, I think that the, you know, the nice thing about, and someone mentioned this already, the interesting thing about batteries, and storage, from my perspective, is how quickly you can transfer fundamental knowledge into a device. And you can learn, relatively quickly, whether your ideas are good or bad. And I, in chemical engineering, that's usually hard. To make an innovation, and to evaluate it, in a device, that actually is, morphologically, the same as the real thing. I mean, in detail it may be different, so that's important. But, the other element is how things are coupled, and so, you make an interesting point about trash divers. But, actually, trash diving for batteries is actually fundamentally unsafe. And unsafe, from the personal perspective. - [Edwin] I agree, yeah. - And, so, one of the huge challenges, really is going to come from, how do we recycle batteries, right? The process of recycling, typically, begins with crushing the cell. Crushing is a short. If the battery shorts in a fully charged state, it's a fire hazard. If you're recycling this by low-skilled workers, who are trash divers, it's a problem. And, so, coming up with some framework, that anticipates the full life of batteries, and anticipates the need to extend the life of the materials, perhaps by recycling, I think is one of the grand challenge questions. How do we do it as a society? Without being too interventionalist, in terms of what EVs, and so forth, end up using. - I just want to add to what you just said, you're absolutely right. I should have mentioned that too. And one of the biggest issues there, on recycling batteries, as compared to solar panels, that you have already standards in the sizes and shapes, in batteries, we don't have those standards. And that will make for a robot to come and start disassembling a battery very difficult, right? And, probably, the development of artificial intelligence that allows for a robot to manipulate a cell, and from there, figure out what to do with is, as to how to peel the different layers, and toss them into different buckets. I think that's an interesting, already, mechanical engineering problem, right? So, yeah. - I would like to add slightly different view on that. Where we are talking about recycling, there is a fire hazard, and you might have seen the batteries were on fire, Tesla was on fire. So, batteries has electrolyte, it has a salt, LiPF6, Lithium hexafluorophosphate, with electrolyte, when it is on fire, it forms hydrofluoric acid, HF. And HF is highly, highly, corrosive to our lungs. So, whenever you see something is on fire, like batteries, you should not go on taking the video. You should really run away from that. The reason is your life could be in danger. And electric vehicle has eight to nine thousand batteries. Total amount of HF generated would be in kilograms, might be, and that much if you can inhale, or if you are nearby, it could impact today or tomorrow, or at some point. It could be rally dangerous thing. - That actually is one of my fear, chronic concern, for, like firefighters and so forth, is, typically, the amount of HF is, ppm, less than 10. So, it's unlikely to kill you unless the carbon dioxide is going to kill you. So, typically the carbon dioxide will kill you first, in any given instance, not that that's a plus. But the chronic affect of HF is very questionable. Especially since one of it's other effects is to deplete the protection around your neurons. And, so, it's the one acid that, typically, doesn't physically burn you, as it sets. Until it's way, way too late. So, that's pretty scary. There's one more point, I know we're probably going to go on, but I will say that I kind of on the cusp of getting better on recycling. One of the challenges has been, in the past, we were much more recycling individual cells, where there's no knowledge about the history of that cell, even what the chemistry in that cell is. And so, most remanufacturing is, yeah, you grind it all up, you assume there's, kind of, a blend of LCl and MnC and so forth, and it's not quite as good as it used to be. If you have EV companies, you have, they plan for second life. So, second life is not recycling, it's reusing it in, like, a grid storage application. Or refreshing the electrolyte or lithium supply, and reusing it, and then once it goes into manufacturing imagine a million electric vehicles with the same chemistry being recycled, that's easier to do. - Well, let's make sure that we definitely recycle our batteries. So, with this, we'll conclude our panel today. Let's thank all our panelists for a wonderful discussion. (audience claps) And before we end the day, let's give a big applause to all the engineering supporting staff; because, they are the unthanked hero for making this event happen. Thank you all for participating. 