 Welcome back everyone! I’m Jordan  Giesige and this is The Limiting Factor.  At Battery Day, Tesla confirmed that they’re using  Maxwell’s DBE or Dry Battery Electrode technology   to increase the production speed of lithium  ion battery manufacturing by 7 times. However,   they didn’t cover the impact of DBE on their  battery at the cell level. In this video,   I’m going to walk you through how DBE works at a  microscopic level and why it might be part of the   secret sauce that Elon mentioned at Battery Day. Before we begin, a special thanks to Bradford   Ferguson of Halter Ferguson Financial and  the Patreon supporters listed in the credits.   It’s the support on Patreon that keeps me  grinding away on niche topics. Back to DBE.  As a quick refresher, DBE is used to coat  active energy storing anode and cathode   materials onto the current collect foils of  battery electrodes. It uses a dry process   rather than a wet slurry. DBE has nothing to  do with solid state. Solid state batteries are   a type of battery that use a solid electrolyte  material, whereas DBE is a manufacturing process.  I predicted Tesla would not only use DBE for their  new battery manufacturing lines, but that those   lines would be at least 2-4 times faster than a  conventional battery line. How did I know that   DBE would accelerate the manufacturing process  by such a large margin? First, I found Maxwell   documentation from 2012 indicating that Maxwell  was targeting a pilot production line speed   of 25 meters a minute. Second, I found research  indicating that a standard wet slurry production   line is 5 meters minute at pilot scale. Based on this, I assumed that the 5 times   production speed increase at the pilot scale  would hold true when the pilot lines were   scaled up to full size commercial lines.  I then sandbagged the 5x figure to between   2-4 times speed increase. This is because there  was no way to know if Maxwell was working off   the same definition of pilot scale as the research  paper. We ended up getting 7 times speed increase.   Why? Probably because Tesla was able to improve  on Maxwell’s 2012 technology. This is something   I thought might be possible, but I had no way  to verify what I thought was a pipe dream.  In prior videos, based on the same  research, I stated that Maxwell DBE   had other potential benefits that went beyond  the improved manufacturing speed and we might   see improvements to cell performance. These  improvements included lower heat generation,   higher power density, higher energy density,  and longer cycle life. None of these benefits   were specifically called out in Tesla’s Battery  Day presentation. This may be because DBE forms   part of the secret sauce for Tesla’s 4680 cell.  I do think there are other herbs and spices   but we’ll get into those in later videos. Why do I think there’s a secret sauce? As   I mentioned in the introduction, Elon said  on stage that there was some secret sauce.   Second, when I was watching the Battery  Day presentation, I noticed that the range   numbers didn’t quite match up to the technologies  those gains were attributed to. In other words,   they may not have been telling us everything that  went into the sausage. By taking a closer look at   DBE technology we might get some answers. Much of the information I’ll be presenting   in this video comes from a doctoral  dissertation by Brandon Ludwig.   If you’d like to go a lot deeper than I’m going  in this video, I’d recommend checking it out.  To understand the benefits of DBE we first need to  take a look at a wet slurry formed electrode at a   microscopic level. A special thanks to Peter  Morain of Glacier Design for the animation.   Peter’s a friend of the channel and you  can find his details in the description.  The large blue spheres we see here  are about the size of red blood cells,   maybe a little larger. This is the typical size  of cathode and anode active material particles.   In this case we’ll assume its cathode material. The small black spheres are carbon powder   that’s used to conduct electricity to and  from the cathode particles to the foil   current collector. The thin film unevenly  coating the cathode particles is binder.   The binder holds the cathode material  together like glue and it’s non-conductive.  You might see a problem here. In some places  the binder covers parts of the cathode particles   and it’s not actually gluing anything  together. The only thing the binder   is doing in this situation is slowing down the  flow of ions in and out of the cathode particle,   which reduces ionic conductivity. In other places, the carbon powder is   sandwiched between two particles with little  or no binder. This is great for electrical   conductivity. However, without the bonding effect  of the binder, the cathode doesn’t hold together   as well as it could and doesn’t stick to the  current collector foil as well as it could.   This is called cohesion and adhesion. In summary, a wet slurry coating creates   disorganised and messy electrode coatings that  are neither as durable nor as power dense they   could be. Power density refers to how quickly  you can get energy out of a battery cell.  Why is the wet slurry coating so messy? During  the wet slurry process, NMP, which is a toxic and   flammable solvent, dissolves the binder. When the  slurry is dried, the binder comes out of solution   and haphazardly coats all the particles. This is a cathode that’s been formed with a dry   process. How did these clean structures form?  During the mixing process, the binder and   carbon particles tend to stick to each other  and then stick to the cathode particles.   This forms what looks like a black dough.  To get the binder in the dough to bond,   the cathode is run through a heated roller to melt  the binder and compress the material together.  This process forms a conductive yet adhesive  matrix of point to point connections between   the cathode particles. This matrix  maximises the ability of ions to exit   and enter the particles, enhances the  electrical pathways between the particles,   and increases the strength of the entire  electrode through better cohesion and adhesion.  How much stronger is DBE than an electrode  painted with a wet slurry process?   If the same active material mixture is used for  a dry process and wet process, and then compared,   the result is that the dry formed  electrode is over 50% stronger.   That strength, combined with the additional  conductivity gives us a few options:  The first is to change the ratio  of active to inactive materials.   A wet slurry electrode is typically 90% cathode  active material, 5% binder, and 5% carbon. With   DBE that can be improved to 98% active material,  1% binder, and 1% carbon powder. This would result   in an electrode that’s still more strongly bonded  than a wet slurry electrode but has around 9%   greater energy density. However, with only  1% conductive carbon powder, the electrical   conductivity would decrease resulting in  higher resistance and heat generation.  The second option is to keep the ratios  the same, which would deliver a robust   and highly conductive electrode with no change  to energy density. This electrode would have 50%   higher bonding strength and might be well suited  to something like a high loaded silicon anode   that requires strong cohesion and adhesion to  cope with the 400% expansion rate of the Silicon.  The third option is to find a  happy middle ground that optimises   for both energy density and power density. These options are of course not as cut and dry   as I’ve made them out to be. In fact, Tesla may  be able to optimise beyond what I’ve stated above   by finding a better, more elastic binder.  Ryan Alvarez, who you may remember as the   Battery Day correspondent, found patents  indicating that Maxwell was looking to   optimise the binder material. An optimised binder  material might increase the margin that Tesla can   play with for energy and power density. For now, we’ll assume that Tesla decided   to take the power density path at the materials  level with a standard ratio of active to inactive   materials. This will maximise the durability  benefits to cope with a high silicon anode.   Power density, resistance, and heat generation are  closely linked, so we’ll discuss them together.   Then, we’ll look at how these factors  might affect Tesla’s 4680 battery cell.  One of the primary factors influencing heat  generation and power density is resistance.   Resistance is like electrical friction in a  battery cell. With greater friction comes greater   amounts of heat generation. Resistance also slows  down the chemical reactions within a battery cell.  In other words, when a battery is quickly  charged or discharged, it results in a kind   of lag. Energy is being pulled out of  the battery cell more quickly than the   battery chemistry can reach equilibrium. This image shows that lag. In this test   the researchers compared a DBE vs a wet  slurry chemistry at increasing cycling rates.   Cycling rate simply means how fast a battery  is charged or discharged. A 1C rate is a   full charge or discharge in 1 hour. A 2C rate  would be 30 minutes and a 3C rate would be 20   minutes. At a 3C rate, DBE performed nearly  20% better than the wet slurry chemistry.   In fact, the DBE at a 3C rate outperformed the wet  slurry chemistry at a lower 2C rate by about 5%.  DBE clearly has benefits to charge and discharge  rates. However, Tesla can apply those benefits in   several ways. For example, they could use  the reduced heat generation, resistance,   and increased power density to instead increase  energy density. Let’s look at how that could work.  Batteries can be engineered for power density  or energy density by changing the thickness of   the cathode. A thicker cathode stores  more energy because there is a higher   ratio of energy storing material to  inactive material such as packaging.   However, with a thicker cathode, the electrons and  ions have to work their way through more material,   meaning more resistance. Batteries are a closed  system and there are almost always trade-off   decisions. In this case, the trade-off is  between energy density and power density.  This chart illustrates the impact of  cathode thickness on the energy capacity   per square centimetre for an example cathode.  A regular cathode is around 56microns thick.   With a thicker 100 micron cathode, the energy  capacity of the cathode more than doubles.  However, this chart shows us that with a thicker  cathode, the battery quickly loses the ability to   achieve higher charge and discharge rates. As you  can see, with a 100 micron cathode thickness at a   20 minute discharge rate, the energy output  of the battery cell drops to almost zero.   100 microns would be an extreme jump from the 56  or so microns that Tesla is probably currently at.  Tesla could have found a compromise by picking  a cathode thickness that’s slightly thicker   than 56 microns to gain an energy density  boost while still maintaining power density   thanks to benefits of DBE. With a small tweak,  Tesla could increase energy density by 5%.  It’s worth noting that in my  interview with Shirley Meng,   she raised the potential of a thicker cathode.  Based on those comments, a thicker cathode   seems like a very real possibility. Would Tesla take the energy density   route or the power density route? My predictions for Battery Day   were based on the assumption that Tesla would  balance cost, the maturity of the technology,   energy density, and power density. However,  Battery Day made it clear to me that Tesla is   ruthlessly and single-mindedly focused on cost, so  long as it doesn’t have a negative impact on the   energy density, power density, and cycle life. DBE can basically provide a free increase to   energy density by increasing the ratio  of active materials to inactive materials   such as electrode foils. This reduces costs  without negative impacts and trade-off decisions.  However, where would the 5% increase in energy  density fit in Tesla’s slide showing how all   their improvements stack? My view is that  this improvement fits under the broad heading   of cell design. Cell design is much broader  than just form factor. We’ll get into this   more deeply in the next video. It will take  some analysis to pull apart that 16% figure.  At the beginning of the video, I mentioned  that DBE also increases cycle life. If you’ve   watched previous videos, you’ll remember that  Maxwell’s marketing material stated that DBE   could double cycle life. From what I’ve read  in the research, DBE does improve cycle life,   but it doesn’t support a doubling. If DBE  is used in the same ratio of active to   inactive materials that are used in a wet slurry  chemistry, it increases cycle life by up to 50%.  The dissertation by Brandon Ludwig didn’t  provide an explanation of why DBE might   improve cycle life. However, I’ll speculate here: • First, the NMP solvent might have a corrosive   effect on the cathode and anode materials. • Second, the additional cycle life could be due   to the increased durability of the dry battery  electrode. As a battery cycles, the electrodes   expand and contract. Over time, this places  stresses on the cathode and anode materials,   resulting in reduced battery life. • Third, the increased conductivity   of the dry battery electrode might help  keep thermal degradation under control.  In summary, Maxwell’s Dry Battery Electrode  technology provides several benefits that weren’t   discussed in the Battery Day presentation. Tesla  can tweak the ratio of active to inactive material   in two ways: First, at the particle  level by adjusting the ratio of binder   and conductive carbon material and second,  by increasing or decreasing the thickness   of the electrode active material layer  adhered to the foil current collector.  By turning the dials on these ratios, Tesla  can manipulate the strength, cycle life,   energy density and power density of their battery  cells. So far, we’ve only looked at one aspect   of the new battery. Once all the variables  are stacked together, we’ll see that putting   all of this in the Battery Day presentation would  have been like eating an elephant in one sitting.  In other words, they simplified the presentation  for public consumption. This had the side benefit   of allowing Tesla to focus on the impact  of the technology while protecting IP.   I could be totally wrong about DBE  being part of Tesla’s secret sauce,   but its significance was definitely underplayed. I’d also speculate that now that Tesla is getting   close to mastering this technology, that the  entire battery industry now rushing explore   it and recruit researchers that have worked  with it at a lab scale. It’s worth noting   that there’s more than one way to implement DBE.  For example, the dissertation referenced in this   video referred to a spray method. I wouldn’t be surprised if other   companies make announcements in the next few  years to try and grab some media headlines,   capitalise on hype, and maintain relevancy.  We’re seeing a lot of this lately. I don’t   think it was a coincidence that we saw so many  battery related announcements in September.  However, I haven’t heard of any other  company working with DBE that’s achieved   anything beyond pilot scale, let alone plans  for terawatt hours. I expect it will be at   least 5 years before we see any other company  deliver what Tesla plans to deliver next year.  The next video will be on Cell Design. We’ll  discuss the tabless electrode, the larger form   factor, and we’ll dig deeper into what Tesla  may not have been telling us on Battery Day.  If you enjoyed this video, please consider  supporting me on Patreon with the link at the end   of the video or snag something off the merch shelf  below. I am also active on Twitter and Reddit. You   can find the details of those in the description  and I look forward to hearing from you.  A special thanks to Freddie Lewis,  Fujio, Robert Valois, Darin J Douma,   Mark Hooker, John Hewling for your generous  support of the channel, and all the other   patrons listed in the credits. I appreciate  all your support, and thanks for tuning in. you 