 Welcome back everyone! I’m Jordan  Giesige and this is The Limiting Factor.  This is part four of the Lithium Mine to Battery  Line Series where I break down what Tesla unveiled   at Battery Day. In today’s video we’re going  to talk about Tesla’s 4680 Cell Factory.   The 4680 Cell Factory will be 7X more productive  and cost 75% less per gigawatt hour to ramp.   This is the tool the world needs to accelerate  the world’s transition to sustainable energy.  Before we begin, a special thanks to Bradford  Ferguson of Halter Ferguson Financial,   the Patreon supporters listed in the  credits as well as my YouTube members.   This is the support that keeps me grinding  away on niche topics. Back to the factory.  Tesla started this part of the Battery Day  presentation by highlighting mature industries   such as printing and bottling. This seems mundane  and obvious, but it’s extraordinarily important.   If you want to know how to produce something  cheaply, look at the cheapest and most highly   produced products in human history. Newspapers  and bottles are probably at the top of that list.   The production processes for these  have undergone 100 years of refinement.  Conventional battery production processes evolved  from other industries. These processes have served   us well but have only been around for a few  decades. Researchers and the battery industry   have been developing technologies to bring  battery manufacturing into its own. However,   many of these sparks of development haven’t  seen the factory floor. A spark needs tinder,   and that’s where Tesla comes in. Tesla commands  the talent, resources, and tenacity necessary   to work those sparks into a billowing fire. There was some commentary after Battery Day   that said Tesla hadn’t revealed anything  that was new to the Battery Industry.   While that’s true to a certain extent, it  appears Tesla will be the first to execute   and that’s what matters. Not only that,  it looks like they’ll execute in multiple   domains and bring multiple technologies  to the factory floor simultaneously.   I’ve seen other companies tackling one or two  opportunities, but not all of them at once.  This will create dozens of positive feedback  loops and it’ll be a revolution in manufacturing   that we haven’t seen since Henry Ford. Ford  didn’t invent the automobile, but rather,   mastered the machine that builds the machine.  Ford’s market share went from 9 percent of the   auto market in 1908 to 61 percent in 1921. In the first video of this series,   I stated that Tesla could eventually  capture 40 percent of the US auto market.   By the standards of history, I think 40 percent  is fair and possibly even conservative. Apple   was able to capture 40 percent of their market  without a leap in manufacturing technology and   by virtue of a great product alone. Tesla has both  great products and world leading manufacturing.  In the next slide, Tesla calls out four  major steps in the manufacturing process.   There was nothing revealing in this slide, it was  there to provide the audience with a simplified   understanding of the end-to-end process. Moving along, Drew and Elon then showed   how much machinery a typical wet process  requires. Let’s go a little deeper to understand   why this equipment is required. To coat active  energy storing materials to the current collector   of a battery cell, a conventional wet process  starts with a slurry. This slurry is a thick   paint-like mixture of active and inactive  material powders suspended in a toxic   solvent. The toxic solvent also dissolves a binder  in the wet slurry. When the slurry paint is dried,   the binder comes out of solution to bind the  active materials to each other and the current   collector. This dried binder forms the messy and  uneven white coating we see on the particles here.  The drying process is capital and energy  intensive. This is because the drying lines   are heated and hundreds of feet long. During  the drying process the toxic solvent evaporates.   The evaporated solvent gases are sent to a  small chemical processing plant to be recovered.  The Tesla-Maxwell dry process uses the same dry  mix of materials. However, instead of being mixed   into a wet slurry, the active and inactive  material powders are mixed into a dough.   That dough is run through heated rollers and  the binder melts, which binds the active and   inactive materials together. This forms the highly  structured point to point binding structure we   see here, which has multiple benefits that  were called out in the Secret Sauce video.  In terms of space and equipment costs,  these images speak for themselves.   The massive drying lines and chemical plant used  for the conventional process require hundreds of   tonnes of heavy-duty factory equipment. Those were  replaced with a few high precision heated rollers   about the size of a workbench. The net result is  that Tesla’s Dry Battery Electrode Coating process   takes up 1/10 the space and uses 1/10  the energy of a conventional process.  In the next slide, Tesla shared the progression  path from bench, to lab, to pilot scale.   Progressing through these levels involves  increasing amounts of automation, precision,   and conviction that the process is viable. Let’s  take a deeper look at the images in this slide   and what they represent. These are my best guesses  at how the dry electrode development progressed.  In the left most image, we can see that the  bench scale machine is literally being spoon fed   raw material. At a bench scale, Maxwell would have  been trying to find the right marriage of machine   and material by using different combinations  of inactive and active material, roller heat,   and roller pressure. It would have involved  the production of just enough electrode   material to make small, manually assembled  test cells one at a time. In other words,   the purpose at bench scale is to explore if the  machine can produce viable battery materials.  The next step is lab scale. The purpose at lab  scale is three-fold: First, to produce greater   amounts of materials for larger cells and more  extensive testing. Second, to find out if the   electrode can be made with regular consistency  throughout the sheet and across batches. Third,   to find if automation mechanisms can be built  to support continuous production. For example,   a feeding mechanism for the raw materials. When there’s enough confidence that the   lab scale problems can be solved, it’s  time to have a crack at heavy machinery   and full automation. The emphasis here is on  can be solved, rather than have been solved.  Take a close at the lab scale image and  note the ragged edge on the electrode.   My guess is that wouldn’t be acceptable for a  commercial production line. The question is,   how do you create a straight edge using  what’s basically playdough and a rolling pin.   Other challenges would include creating  a pristine sheet that’s a thin as a   human hair that’s hundreds of kilometres long. In other words, Maxwell handed Tesla a solution,   a bucket of manufacturing problems to solve,  and potential solutions to those problems.   The eventual solutions to those problems  would be trade secret. This may be part of   the reason why Tesla didn’t show us the pilot  line in action, and instead shows us the bench   scale machine with the blue frame being spoon  fed. At pilot scale, the intention is clear,   which is to solve all issues related to high  volume manufacturing and hit cost targets.  At this point in the presentation, Elon  and Drew took some time to share their   thoughts and provide insights into the  current state of the dry electrode line.   What Elon and Drew shared here created some  doubt about execution. For me, what they stated   was par for the course for any production  ramp. Let’s walk through what they said.  Elon said, “It’s not totally working, it’s  close to working, it does work but with not a   high yield. There is a clear path to success  but a ton of work between here and there.”  I’ll translate here. The machine is functional,  it's just not high yield. This indicates to me   that they're running into optimisation issues.  Every production ramp encounters yield issues,   particularly battery production lines  during their first year of operation.   If Tesla can solve these things before mass  producing their battery production line and   consistently deliver high yields on each new line,  this will allow Tesla to ramp production lines 3-6   months faster than their more well-established  peers like Panasonic, LG, and CATL.  Drew said, “We’re ironing out the kinks,  but we’ve made tens of thousands of cells   and thousands of kilometres of electrode.” Again, I’ll translate. 2000 kilometres of   electrode is enough to make around 200,000 cells.  Which is enough for roughly 50-250 vehicles   depending on whether you’re talking a Model 3  or Tesla Semi. Maxwell’s 2012 documentation was   targeting 250 meters of uninterrupted electrode  material. If Tesla is making 1000s of kilometres,   there’s been a huge amount of progress and there’s  no reason to believe that progress won’t continue.  In other words, it doesn’t sound like Tesla  is running into problems that can’t be solved.   The types of problems they might be running  into are things like even roller heating,   roller texture, calendaring pressure, and edge  control. Calendaring pressure is simply how hard   the material is compressed by the rollers. As Elon and Drew advised on stage, they’re   on the fourth revision of the equipment, they’ll  be on rev 6 or 7 by the time they do large scale   production, and they have a new rev every  3-4 months. If these revisions were out in   the open like the Starship in Texas, I don’t  think people would be as concerned. However,   just like SpaceX has done with Starship, Tesla has  multiple revisions lined up and it’s clear they’ll   achieve their goals. Like Elon said, they have a  clear path to success, it’s just a matter of work.  From here, Drew and Elon moved on to high  speed continuous motion. The idea of continuous   motion is simple. Manufacturing involves moving  stuff around and making changes to that stuff.   The most efficient process will make changes to  the stuff while the stuff is moving around. It’s a   bit like working on your laptop during a commute.  You achieved two goals at once, work and travel,   getting twice as much done  in the same amount of time.  This is where vertical integration, Grohman, and  HiBar come into play. Instead of buying separate   pieces of equipment from different suppliers,  Tesla is building most of the manufacturing   line in house. This allows them to design the  manufacturing line as one seamless process   rather than a ragtag assortment of machines. The line speed increase was the real shocker   of Battery Day for me and the part that I was  sweating the most in terms of my predictions.   This was because I thought the line speed  increase was my boldest prediction. We ended up   getting a 7x line speed increase. Based on Elon’s  comment about Terafactories earlier in the year   combined with my own research, I was hoping for  4x with a potential of 5x line speed increase.  Between 5x to 9x were in my hopes and  dreams range. 5x to 9x was a range that   seemed feasible but I had nothing to back this  up. I’d heard higher guesses of 10x to 16x   and that was thrilling to think about,  but it also sounded like science fiction.   With that said, Tesla may be capable of higher  rates in the future. As Drew said later in the   presentation, there’s definitely room to improve  beyond what they presented at Battery Day.  Let’s take a moment to appreciate that Tesla  will have manufacturing lines each capable of   cranking out more than half of the gigawatts hours  of Giga Nevada, which has 13 lines. At 20 gigawatt   hours a piece, Tesla’s battery manufacturing  lines are a game changer for the battery industry.   In fact, Tesla appears to already be sharing their  tabless electrode technology with Panasonic and LG   for 4680 pilot lines. I don’t think this line will  be a DBE line, but rather Panasonics chemistry   in a Tesla package with the tabless electrode.  However, that’s a discussion for another video.  In the next video sequence, Drew walks us through  the last step of the manufacturing process,   which was labelled as formation. This may have  been the must underappreciated part of Battery   Day. Formation is usually 20% of the cost of  a battery factory and when combined with the   related steps of aging and testing, it amounts  to 25% of the cost of a new battery factory.   If you’d like to know more about this, check  out Battery Bulletin’s video on the topic.  Each 4680 battery production line will be  producing roughly 650,000 cells per day.   After these cells are assembled, they typically  go through the formation step, which takes 1   day for advanced manufacturers. Formation is the  process of charging and discharging the battery   cells to allow a protective layer to form on the  cathode and anode materials in the battery cell.  Drew advised that typical formation processes  charge and discharge cells individually   and in Tesla vehicles we charge thousands  of cells at once. I’ll attempt to clarify   Drew’s wording here. In a typical formation  process, each of the millions of battery   cells that are produced each day get their own  electronic channel during the formation process.   This is because they’re wired in parallel. The alternative would be wiring the batteries   in series, which would allow more cells to be  charged with each circuit. However, series wiring   usually runs into issues with charge balancing.  As teardowns of Tesla battery packs have shown,   Tesla has extraordinarily accurate charge  balancing for cells that are connected in series.   If Tesla applied the same tech in their packs  to the formation process, it would slash capital   costs. Which appears to be what they’ve done. If Tesla is able to reduce the amount of   electronics required through series circuitry AND  are manufacturing their own electronics and using   their own software, this alone could fully explain  the 86% cost reduction in formation investment.  Tesla didn’t fully explain how they  could reduce the formation footprint.   However, if they can reduce the amount of time  spent in the formation step, that would by   extension reduce the formation footprint. For  example, if they reduced the formation time   from 24 hours to 12 hours, this would increase  the amount of cells rotated through the process   from 650,000 cells on a daily basis to  1.3 million using the same footprint.   That rate increase could of course instead  be used to reduce the footprint by 50%.  There is no telling how far Tesla could push this.  They may have been able implement the formation   equivalent of supercharging and the entire 75%  reduction in floor space could be attributable   to accelerated formation. However, I couldn’t  find any research to support gains that extreme.  After formation comes aging, which Tesla didn’t  discuss at all. During the aging process the cells   are stored for 2-3 weeks. During that time the  cells are exposed to different temperatures and   monitored. Aging gives the cells time to exhibit  defects and prove their ability to hold a charge.   2 weeks of production would be 9 million cells. There’s clearly a huge opportunity for improvement   here. This is millions of dollars’ worth of  product sitting on the shelf for 2-3 weeks.   My speculation here is that they could apply  big data and artificial intelligence to predict   how cells would perform in a 2-3 week aging  process with a few days or a week of data.  The last step is testing. This is the  final validation process before the cells   are incorporated into a pack. It includes  grouping cells with similar characteristics   in a process called binning. There aren’t  many cost saving opportunities here unless   Tesla can find a way to more seamlessly  merge this with the previous aging step.  The end result of all of Tesla’s improvements  to the factory is what we see on screen,   which is a 75% reduction in investment and a 10x  reduction in footprint per gwh of production.   These are impressive numbers to say the least  and this is why I consider the factory the   most important project unveiled at battery day. How did my estimates stack up? With regards to   process steps, I predicted roughly 30% fewer steps  in my Terawatt Scaling video and that’s roughly   what we ended up with by going from 14 to 9 steps. What about cost? My final predictions were a 20%   cost reduction based on a 4 times speed increase  from manufacturing improvements that didn’t   include the chemistry. Tesla was able to achieve  a 32% cost decrease at a 7 times speed increase.   This puts my predictions at 2/3rds of the actual. This slide left me a bit gobsmacked and I would   have liked to ask one question here: Is Tesla  intending on producing 100gwhs in 2022, are they   intending on hitting a 100gwh run rate, or do they  plan on having 100 gwhs of installed capacity? The   answer to that question could result a production  difference greater than Tesla’s current global   production for 2020, which will probably be around  40-50 gigawatt hours. Typically, battery factories   are measured in terms of capacity and their actual  output is lower due to down time and yield loss.  Elon did say produce, but the Battery  Day presentation clearly wasn’t highly   rehearsed. I’m definitely not complaining here.  I prefer a more relaxed and organic presentation.   However, there were several times where  Elon or Drew corrected each other’s wording   and they didn’t catch all of these slips. Regardless, how did Tesla’s goals compare   to my predictions? I assumed that Tesla  would be consuming a little over 2.25   TWhs a year from all sources in 2030, with about  half of that coming from the Roadrunner lines.   That is, I was expecting Tesla to alone match  the current projections for 2-3 twhs of global   battery production in 2030. I thought my 2.25TWh  guess was on the moderate side of aggressive.  Tesla’s goal was of course 3Twhs, which is  on the aggressive side of aggressive. Again,   we don’t know if that’s produced or capacity.  My numbers were actual consumed for the   year ending 2030. In addition, it’s worth  noting that I did state in my predictions   that I could be undershooting because I was being  purposefully conservative. I based my predictions   off the most reliable and likely information at  hand. My numbers are definitely short of Tesla’s,   but by how much remains to be seen. Tesla threw a lot of big numbers at   us in this part of the presentation and it’s  easy to get distracted or overwhelmed. For me,   the key takeaway is simple. The Battery Factory  is the tool that Tesla will use to accelerate the   word’s transition to sustainable energy. It can  scale 7X faster using 10x less space at 4 times   less cost while using a fraction of the energy. Tesla’s Battery Factory is a revolution in battery   manufacturing. These battery factories will  be integrated with Tesla’s vehicle factories,   which are themselves a revolution in auto  manufacturing. This is the heavy-duty industry   that’s required to move the needle to accelerate  the world’s transition to sustainable energy.  It’s all about scale and cost and Tesla now  has their chessboard completely set with a full   vertical integration stack. In the next decade  we’re going to witness manufacturing scale in   ways that the US hasn’t seen since Henry Ford,  and along with that we get front row seats as   humanity graduates to better and cleaner energy  sources that should last us more than a century,   because that’s the point of sustainable energy. In the next video we’re going to take a deeper   look at Tesla Silicon. There’s a lot of excitement  and interest around this and for good reason.   It’s a black box with a lot of mystery  and potential. We’ll take a look at Tesla   Silicon at a microscopic level to get a better  understanding of the challenges and benefits.  If you enjoyed this video, please consider  supporting me on Patreon with the link at   the end of the video or snag something off  the merch shelf below. I am also active on   Twitter and Reddit. You can find the  details of those in the description   and I look forward to hearing from you. A special thanks to @D4t4Wr4ngl3r, Kiryl   Kazlovich, and Ulf for your generous support of  the channel, all the other patrons listed in the   credits, and my YouTube members. I appreciate  all your support, and thanks for tuning in. 