 Hello, this is engineer TV. Today, we'll talk about graphene batteries. On Aug. 12, 2019, CNET announced that Samsung had hired graphene batteries next year. There's a rumor that the phone could be released, so I'd like to predict that. According to the Korean newspaper, a famous Twitter posted. According to the article, Twittian Evan Blas, who is known for his new mobile product information, posted on his Twitter account that  Samsung will be using phones with graphene batteries by next year or 2021. It is predicted that at least one will be released. Can you believe this? In fact, there are a lot of foreigners in Samsung lab, and more recently Koreans also communicate with foreigners a lot, so if you ignore it, I don't think so. But why does Samsung Electronics need a graphene battery at this point? For the LG V50, dual screens are said to have problems with battery heating and quick discharge. I keep mentioning it with you, but the fever's really bad. This is a fever that I never felt when I used V3 before. For the V50, when using dual and single, the dual is about 70% and the single is about 85%, so it's twice as much. When it lasted an hour, the dual screen consumed 30 percent per hour, and the single consumed 15 percent. The speed of the battery consumption has been doubled. If Samsung goes to foldable phone in the future, I think there will be battery problem. The battery capacity has grown a lot lately, but the foldable has twice as much screen. I think we need to double the battery capacity. So let's go back to when they first announced the development of graphene ball batteries. On November 27, 2017, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology increased charging capacity by 45%. They've developed a graphene ball that can make a battery that can charge up to five times faster. It was announced in November 2017, and now it's 10 months old, and it's not going to be ready for commercialization. I think there's been a little bit more improvement. And I made a presentation at Samsung Electronics Institute of Technology. Why did Samsung Electronics announce its battery technology? Where Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology is located is Matan-dong, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon. If you look at this, Samsung SDI Electronics Materials Research Institute of Materials. Then Samsung Electronics Research Park, Samsung Electronics' General Technical Institute is all gathered here. If you look at the 2015 article, In 2013, Lee Kun-hee, chairman of Samsung Electronics, To make the material industry first-class, Five subsidiaries, including Samsung SDI, Cheil Industries, Samsung Fine Chemicals, and Samsung Corning Materials, invested in a large-scale materials industry research complex. It's about getting them to power up and running. They've been u-turning after two years. Cheil Industries merged with Samsung SDI. Samsung Precision Chemicals was sold to Lotte Chemical, and Samsung Corning Precision Materials was sold to CORNING. That's why he made a U-turn. But now, Samsung Electronics and SDI have continued to work on materials. We can see what they have been doing so far. As far as I know, Samsung Electronics mainly focuses on basic science and SDI is verified for commercialization. It's based on the possibility of mass production. Once the review is completed in SDI, if the review has been completed in SDI, it can be seen as a 100% commercial application. So SDI is presented and displayed only when a prototype is available. I know they don't speak well before. So if you look at the battery-specific roadmap in an electric car, At a distance of 400 km, We need to use silicon cathode material, NCM811. And to achieve 600 KM, not less than 90% nickel from cathode. And then it says that the cathode material has to use more than 10 percent of the silicon compound, and if graphene balls are applied as new additives, we're going to have to do it. I think we might be able to get a little faster. So, is over 80 percent of the cathode nickel an easy task? Higher nickel content leads to a gas capacity life problem So now, as you can see in the picture, The design of nickel cobalt aluminium construction for the first high voltage structure stabilization is required. Then a cleaning process is developed to remove residual lithium left on the surface. Then we need to stabilize the surface of the active material by doping or coating. And then there's a combination of big and small particles, and we're going to have to implement high density. The 4 achievement challenges have not been solved yet. And the higher the nickel content, the more you need to know about the four processes. It's a situation where the quality needs to be higher, the quality needs to continue to rise. The same is true of the anode silicon task. For silicon anode applications, To prevent cracking of silicon particles We need to make it nano-sized. The smaller the nanoscale, the more recharging exhibition Capacity decreases and production costs increase. The best way to use silicon now is Combining traditional graphite with nanoscale silicon increases energy density However, silicon anode products cost $17 to $27 per energy. It is more than twice as expensive as the graphite. There is still the task of commercializing the product only if the price is reduced by more than half. So if you look at the level of Samsung SDI's cathode material development, At the Detroit Auto Show in January 2019. I've got some. Samsung SDI introduced a battery cell that can run 600 kilometers. If it's going to be over 600 KM, the NCM811 with a nickel content of over 80 percent. It needs to be developed. Right now, domestic companies of SK, LG, Samsung SDI The development seems to have been completed, and China's CATL also plans to make production in the future." Samsung SDI's cathode material development is about NCM811. If you look at the silicon anode material level, it's a 2016 article, and at the end of lines, SDI has been dominating silicon technology since 2014. It's already been used in high-capacity cells for power tools. So at this point, Samsnug're going to have to make sure that the limitations of battery capacity growth are limited. They think it was possible to predict So, if you look at the article, we'll see that they've been working hard to get over this. In June 2015, the Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology (SIST) announced that it would be able to double the energy density of lithium-ion batteries. It made an announcement on the 25th that it has developed a technology for high-crystal graphene coating silicon anode materials. This is probably the latest version of the graphene ball. I think it's an early model. The new synthesis of high-crystalline graphene is applied to high-capacity silicon anode. The purpose of the process is to improve the performance of lithium-ion battery materials. I was going to apply it to anode materials. Now it's a little bit more advanced by using graphene balls as a way to apply both the cathode and the anode. And that's the improvement that led to the development of a material called graphene balls. The battery shown at the Detroit Motor Show is a next-generation battery with a range of 600 KM on a mere 60-minute charge. It's a graphene ball. It's a new material technology Studies by the Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology have been jointly developed by Samsung SDI and Seoul National University's Chemistry and Biology Department. The anode of the lithium battery, and this is, uh, the cathode and the anode are typos. I checked this part again on NATURE. It's called cathode protection layer and a anode material. All use ensures increased charging capacity, reduced charging time and stable temperature And they've learned how to synthesize graphene at a reasonable price and in large quantities. And I applied for related patents in the U.S. and Korea. So here's the content. It's the cathode material that makes the graphene ball look like popcorn. In cathode material, you can use graphene balls in the NCM. It's like this. It's done by milling. Coating, this is a slightly enlarged image of a graphene ball attached to the surface like this. In an cathode or something, this is what happened like this. This is the actual paper in the journal Nature. As you can see here, graphene balls are created through the CVD process. So let's take a look at the video clip about the CVD. Let's look at the method invented at MIT. Let's look at the machine. This is a CVD machine. Sprinkle the chemical on the copper sheet.  Graphene is depositing on a copper sheet. This is a CVD concept graphic. This is real machine. But we don't have anyone who's finished mass production of Griffin yet. Please note that most experts are skeptical. Now, conclusion, last but not least, The limits of increasing lithium-ion battery capacity are now being seen. Are you going to achieve 90% nickel?  Eighty percent of nickel is actually a tough one. There are a lot of concerns about whether to add a new substance. So it's more than just a steep rise in capacity. We are now choosing to improve by adding new materials. It's graphene ball for Samsung right now. But this graphene is actually hard to predict whether mass production is possible. So you can only use a small amount because of the high price. So far this is the limit Therefore, it is possible to apply electric vehicles after first solving problems on a smartphone. NCM811, NCA, all of which are two or three years ago. They checked everything on smartphone and then they went over to the electric car. So, the application of graphene ball to the smartphone comes out, and in a year or two, After I think it can be applied to electric vehicles. if there is not accident like Note 7 Will it be released next year, as predicted by Twitter from a CNET article? It's more like an add-on to a foldable phone or a more innovative phone in Samsung Galaxy. Maybe a battery with a graphene ball that increases the battery's capacity. I'm guessing in my own way. So, I'm going to wrap up today's. Thank you. 