 - Today's speakers will be Brigadier General Dave Hodne, Director, Soldier Lethality Cross-Functional Team; Brigadier General Tony Potts, Program Executive Officer, Program Executive Office Soldier; Mr. Doug Tamilio, Director, U.S. Army Natick, Soldier Research Development and Engineering Center, and Dr. Donald Reago, Director, Night Vision. Just a reminder during the question and answer portion, if you have a question, please wait until the microphone is in your hand before proceeding. At this time, let's welcome Brigadier General Hodne. (audience applauding) - It's great to be here at my second AUSA in this duty position. My name is Dave Hodne and I'm the director of the Soldier Lethality Cross-Functional Team, and I'm also the Chief of Infantry at Fort Benning, Georgia, so it's great to be here and see this team out here. So a few things that I'd like to highlight. A lot of progress has been achieved just in the last 12 months since the previous AUSA. In fact, there were some aspects of last year's AUSA where some would say what we were pursuing was unachievable, and I would tell you those impossibilities are on the floor here today. So I'm real proud of what Army Futures Command has fielded and what we've done in concert with our team here, because it's important work on behalf of our soldiers. So I want to start with that before I introduce my teammates here. There's been no change to the goal of the Soldier Lethality Cross-Functional Team. We remain committed to treating the soldier and the squad as a system, and providing them the focus they need to achieve overmatch against our near-pure adversaries. We're focused on the Close Combat Force. The Closed Combat Force remains the same military occupational specialties we described last year. Our infantry, our cavalry scouts, our combat engineers, and their accompanying forward observers and combat medics. Throughout, we collaborate with all of our Army Headquarters, ForceCon Trade Dock, SOCOM, the Marine Corps, and we're working with each of those elements as we continue to work on field and capabilities for our soldiers. We've also leveraged authorities provided to us to rapidly prototype and achieve capabilities that we've not previously seen. The Soldier Lethality Cross-Functional Team remains focused on a number of components of lethality. The first, of course, is the lethality afforded by weapons, munitions, fire-control devices, that goes without saying. The other things, and kind of the implied tasks associated with lethality are our mobility. So we're very focused on soldiers' load, weight, power considerations, communications is obviously critical to lethality, you can't lead if you can't communicate, you can't be lethal or apply lethal effects without being able to communicate to your fellow soldiers. Situational awareness, your ability to leverage sensors, displays, and data that was previously unavailable to the soldier and squad at the speed of information is really important. Protection, survivability, signature management, and lastly training and human performance. You just listened to General Trevais talking the synthetic training environment, that's certainly part of it, but there's other aspects of how we integrate systems, and Tony Potts is gonna talk about adaptive soldier architecture and other things we're leveraging that are gonna increase the performance of our soldiers. And lastly, we're exploring the realm of modeling squad performance and how we can evaluate readiness at levels previously limited to the company and above in our reporting systems. Our end state remains the same, we're gonna overcome an erosion in close combat capability, relative to pacing threats identified at our National Defense Strategy, that's really important. Our signature programs remain the same, that you've hopefully seen in the press and I briefed last year at AUSA. The first I'll brief is our enhanced night-vision goggle binocular, it's the first dual-tube image intensification and thermal goggle that fuses both images in high definition. We fielded that system as Army Futures Command first material solution delivered to the Force last month, and certainly a proud moment for Army Futures Command, and a proud moment for this entire team. Tony Potts and I joined Sergeant Major the Army Grinston last month at Fort Riley, Kansas, where we delivered that capability. That capability obviously provides the image intensification of thermal viewing that I described, both day and night capable, so for the first time, our dismounted infantry soldier is able to employ thermal sensing and thermal imaging in support of their daytime operations. That's something that's been common among any of our soldiers that have been on vehicle platforms in our brigade or striker brigade combat teams, so it's fitting that we provide that capability to our rifle squads. It also when paired with the family of weapons site individual, provides rapid target acquisition, where there's this essentially optic, sight fused up in the goggle that allows the soldier to see what's on his weapon's scope, and then when tied with the Net Warrior, provides augmented reality, which allows more situational awareness, where our friendly soldiers are located, that each soldier can see when using Net Warrior in their enhanced night vision goggle binocular. The next program is our Next Generation Squads Weapon Program. It's a combination of an automatic rifle, a rifle, and a common cartridge to both. In August, we down-selected to our three vendors, General Dynamics, Sig, and Textron, they are obviously here on the floor, so I encourage you to go see the direction they're taking in this program. All of that effort was informed by the 2017 Maneuver Center of Excellence-sponsored Small Arms Ammunition Configuration study, which really shaped our approach to how we were gonna approach weapons technology, what we need to get. It's not just about the weapon, it's about the soldier, it's about the weapon, it's about the enabler on the weapon, it's about the ammunition it uses, and it's about the training that soldier has. So it's much more complex, so I'm certainly excited about the direction we're going with the NextGen Squad Weapon, and it includes the Next Generation Fire Control effort as well. The last program is our Integrated Visual Augmentation System. In its simplest terms, that's the transition of the enhanced night-vision goggle binocular analog system to a digital replication of that effort. It's a leap from analog to digital, a single device that will allow us to fight, train, and rehearse, and according to former Secretary of Defense, Mattis' goal was to allow soldiers to execute 25 bloodless battles through the simulation and training and rehearsal capability before they're in actual combat. Its heads-up display that leverages our low light sensors technologies, thermal cameras, and it's configured in a much wider field of view than what you'd see in a traditional goggle format, and in the end, I would tell you, what we would tell you would be the end-user device for multi-domain operations as we realize the army of 2028 and the army of '35. So there's three points I want to make before I turn this over to the team. If I were to look at 2019 in review, I would distill it down to three things. I would tell you it's about teamwork, it's about pace, and it's about common sense innovation through our soldier-centered design. So those three aspects of our approach have enabled us to stay on time and deliver exponential capability to our soldiers, so teamwork, pace of delivery, and common sense innovations. So teamwork first, I'm proud to introduce the team here, my wingman in the Acquisition Realm, Program Executive Office soldier, Brigadier General Tony Potts, he and I are in constant communication and I'm incredibly proud to partner with Tony and his team of program managers that are pushing these programs. We've got two of the three labs represented here, we've got our Soldier Center, Mr. Doug Temelio, he's gonna have the opportunity to describe what he's doing, and then from the C5ISR, our Night Vision and Electronic Sensor Director, we've got Don Reago here as well, and John Hedrick, not here from the Armament Center, certainly played the critical role in the NextGen Squad Weapons Program. Not here as well, our partnership with Army Test and Evaluation Command, our partner with Army Contracting Command, Industry Academia, and even in no small terms, what the Maneuver Center of Excellence Capability and Development Integration Directorate and the Commanding General here at Fort Benning, the CFT's exactly in the right spot where I could be tied with, where capabilities and requirements emerge to meet our soldier needs. So that's point one about teamwork. Point two is about pace. This time last year, right after AUSA, I was waiting on the report of the successful shoulder fire of the NextGen Squad Weapon Demonstrator, and that was certainly something that we were all paying close attention to, if you can't successfully shoulder fire that weapon, it delivers far more energy at range than the existing rifle or automatic rifle, that was something we paid close attention to, and the Textron Armament Center, team effort on that system demonstrator, they knocked it out of the park, we're certainly appreciative of that. That got us exactly where we are today. This time last year, we also only learned of the announcement of Microsoft, a non-traditional partner, as receiving the award for Integrated Visual Augmentation System. We've since done one soldier touchpoint in Fort Pickett, Virginia, and we're about, this next month, about to start the second soldier touchpoint at Fort Pickett, executing platoon level operations, leveraging that WaveGuide technology and integrated tactical network, it's really exciting stuff. And next July we'll test the first Ruggedized Military Form Factor of that in company-level operations, which is a pretty essential portion of that. With our EMVGB, 22 months from then Vice Chief of Staff of the Army, General McConville, approving the requirement to Army Futures Command, delivering that capability to soldiers at Fort Riley, Kansas. That's record time, less than two years, and I would tell you, again I'm gonna echo, some said that these milestones were unachievable, and there was, you can't wring your hands and roll your sleeves at the same time. This team rolls their sleeves and is focused on delivering capability. Our partnership with Industry is something I'm particularly proud of. They appreciate that we outline our requirements in a manner that allows them to innovate, and that's important to them. They also appreciate, and I appreciate, that both sides of the fence stay on schedule, and there's no better way to ensure trust and ensure delivery by doing that. And the last thing I'll talk about, before I hand it over to Brigadier General Potts, is what I described as common sense innovation. The secret sauce of our approach has been soldier-centered design, so with every one of our programs from the EMVGB, the first time our vendor provided the EMVGB to soldiers, we've done 11 soldier touchpoints and that system changed over time. Soldiers provide that common sense feedback and they're not ashamed to provide any feedback on what they don't like about the system, or what they love about the system, and when we hear those comments, it's very helpful for us to make sure we get it right. We've had throughout our soldier touchpoints we've had units from U.S. Army Forces Command, we've had units from U.S. Army Special Operations Command, and we've had the Marine Corps supporting us throughout this endeavor. With our Integrated Visual Augmentation System, we've had over 5,000 hours of soldier feedback informing the direction that we're taking with that program, we've got routinely soldiers executing three week sprints at the Microsoft facility in Redmond, and their data collection on that has been integral to informing where we're going. And we're almost at 4,900 hours of soldier feedback on the NextGen Squad Weapons Program. Even inside, just over a month after the down select to the three vendors that we're pressing forward, we've already had another soldier touchpoint that provided those vendors detailed feedback on the direction of each of those particular systems. So I'm gonna pass it off, and again, this is a team effort, nothing the CFT does happens solely by the efforts of the CFT. Everything we do is the integrated effort of a synchronized group, a team, and again, only about half of the agencies or less than half of the agencies are represented here at this table, so I'll turn it over to Tony Potts. - Thanks, Dave, I'm Tony Potts. I'm the Program Executive Officer for Soldier. We're obviously talking about four of our significant and signature programs that are part of the 31, there's probably about 137 programs at Soldier, so it is a concerted effort, it's a great, Dave is not only a great partner, as far of the CFT, but as the Chief of Infantry. It continues to help us across the board, as the other partners here, like Don Sando, for the EMCO, that allows us to bring all this together. And one of the things I think Dave mentioned earlier, I just wanna focus on really two major points. One of them is this whole idea of the Adaptive Squad Architecture. I say that as the material developer, because I think it's the cornerstone or the key to the things we are doing today that are different than the things that we've done in the past. So the way we talk about is, we talk about the soldiers and integrated weapons platform, and the squad as an integrated combat platform. And that's important, and it's important because when you're looking at the squad, the total lethality of the squad versus the capability of an individual system, that begins to change your trait space. And so, what it allows us to do is maximize squad-level capability, where I would tell you that years past, as a PM, whether it's the low five level or the six level, we were really focused on the JCIDS level requirements, and right, as long as I hit those JCIDS level requirements, I can declare victory, right? It cost scheduled performance, I delivered it, that was great, then we started having soldiers take a look at it. What happens today is, in partnership with the CFT, and really looking at those requirements and concepts, is the ability to bring it in and look at it across the board as a squad and how all of those capabilities or all of those systems integrate together to create an overarching capability. I think one of the lessons we've learned out of this, and I use this as an example, is distance is always king when we talk about night vision and night vision sensors. So when we went after the Integrated Visual Augmentation System, we were also going after how far can you see? How far can you see drives, just the physics of it, drives the size of the aperture. But we were convinced that was the right thing for us to do, we've always gone after distance. We were talking about soldiers and what it does to the aperture of the size, they didn't particularly care for some of the size that we were looking at, and we said, well, unfortunately, to get you the distance, it's gotta be about this big, and the soldiers in these touchpoints that Dave's talking about, they came back and said, why do you think I need that much distance? And we said, well, that's what we give you, we give you distance. And they said, I don't care about the distance, what I care about is field of view. I need a wider field of view so that I have better situational awareness, I can see around me, and by the way, if you're gonna put a synthetic training capability in here, I need to see my world larger so that I get full capability, cognitive capability, of those types of synthetic training we walked into. That's very interesting, so we said that's interesting, and Dave and I get to talking about it, about how do you change this thing but how do you maintain some of the capability of distance because we still want to target at distance. Well, then we have this system called Family of Weapons Sights Individual which will see thermally out to 900 meters. And so we said, when we combine these capabilities through an ISW, we can actually bring that targeting sight into the soldier's field of view in an eighteen degree field of view overlay, in picture in picture, and the soldier can still see targeting data out to 900 meters, yet we can change the size of the aperture, we can make it smaller, we can then make the device smaller, we can give him a larger field of view, and we can still give the soldier distance. Now, if you're only doing one product at a time, that type of discussion never takes place. It is only through the design to an adaptive squad architecture where we are really defining, with our industry partners, and we've had a couple ASA meetings, and the ASA is about all the ICDs, the electrical, the mechanical, the physical, it's also about the software, having software development kits, so that with our industry partners, what we're creating is an ecosystem. Now here's what changes, what changes is what I like to refer to as capability in the white space. And what that really means is I can lay out, on a piece of paper, and I can show you here's what an EMVGB can do, here are all of its attributes. And if I give that to a soldier, in and of itself, that is one of the greatest capabilities that we've ever given to our soldiers. I can lay out an FWSI and I can say this is the attributes, giving it to the soldier still gives them a greater capability than they've ever had on that weapon system. But now, and I can do that for other things, and I can look at our soldier-borne sensors and I can say now we have a platoon-level ISR, and a platoon-level ISR got one person that controls it, I got one person that sees the feed, but I still have platoon-level ISR. Now what happens when I tie all that together with an architecture where I can share the data, where I understand how to pass the power, where I understand how to do all these things, I can now take the white space in between those products and suddenly I have a thing called Rapid Target Acquisition, to where I can bring the targeting data of an FWSI into the visual picture of an EMVGB, and now we've given a soldier Rapid Target Acquisition, a soldier actually no longer really needs to shoulder his weapon to be able to have excellent targeting data. You don't get that unless you do some type of an architecture, and you really look at the squad as an integrated combat platform. Now we can start making trades, and if we all build, if our industry partners are building with us, to this adaptive squad architecture, the answer is going to be there is going to be a lot of capability in the white space, and it's gonna be capability that's not a named program of record, it is going to be a capability that is derived by putting an architecture together and sharing this whole entire digital architecture across the squad, and we're finding that's gonna make us powerful. Imagine now this small UAS that flies, if I no longer have to have one controller, if I can now control it because I'm using a singular type software in a processor, and I can tell it where to go, I can tell it what to look at, and then I can bring that back in to any of my sensors, whether it's an EMVGB or it's an IVASC, I can now share squad-level ISR across the entire squad without creating another program in the army to try to hook all this stuff together. That's what's going to make us far more powerful, that's what's going to make the dollars, and by the way, with us doing that, we, the government, owning that adaptive squad architecture, that infrastructure and that architecture, what we will do, I believe for our companies and our partners out there is, we're gonna free up your resources. I don't need you to build that infrastructure, I don't need you to build the architecture, what I need you to build is the capability that will reside within that infrastructure and architecture so instead of spending, 60, 70% of your dollars, building infrastructure and architecture and 40% building capability, spend the bulk of your money building us capability. We will be powerful together doing that. Last thing I'll talk about to bring this in is our soldier integration facility. We are in the process of standing our SIF. The SIF is part of an ecosystem that goes from, it is our close combat squad ecosystem, so Dr. Millie, on his side, they're standing out their sprint facility. They have the Mastery where we are looking at soldier performance. On the other side, Dave Hodne's got, in Don Sando show, they've got, Milton, help me out, the Maneuver Battle App. So, and in the middle, we will bring in this integration facility where we are going to operationalize the technical aspects of what we do and collectively, it's a continuum across the ecosystem that we will work to evaluate requirements, operational concepts and make sure we get it right before we start to actually develop the program. So with that, I'm gonna turn this over to, Dr. Tamilio, my battle buddy. - Thank you, Tony. Hey, so I'm gonna thank Dave Hodne for inviting us up here today, because it is about the team and that doesn't happen often. I run the Soldier Center up at Natick, headquartered at Natick, Mass. For those who were here for the last briefing for Steve, saw Matt Clarke, Matt works for me down in Orlando, so you can see there's good integration and synergy between the two that he mentioned earlier. But I want to mention the soldier lethality SMT team that I think is important because it's not just the Soldier Center and it's not just C5ISR, my good friend back there, Dr. Kante who I saw slide in, so Phil runs obviously the Army Research Lab, but that research is the underpinnings for everything that I do and what they do over at Night Vision and what John Hedrick does. So, hats off to Phil, they don't get the credit they deserve half the time, for the basic research that they do. So we also have John Hedrick at the Armament Center, John couldn't be here today, so I'm gonna fill in for John a little bit, so if I'm off on weapons, you can talk to John about that. Then, Don's gonna talk, as part of C5ISR, he's gonna talk about the situational awareness. If you paid attention, he was talking about the LOEs that we support. One of the accomplishments that happened in the last couple of years, that I think has really focused the SNT work is in ICD for soldier lethality. So, that's been a long-time coming and we've broken that down into six LOEs that we're kind of bucketing our SNT under. I'm gonna talk five of those, Don's gonna talk one. So I'm gonna start off with lethality. And this is really John Hedrick's area, but the significant accomplishment that can't be overlooked here is the next-generation squad weapons technology, not just the actual weapon, but the technology that came with that. That technology's been working for a long time. Back when I was a P.M. at Soldier Weapons, a long time ago, we were still dealing with some of that technology, but they actually brought that to bear which is huge for our army because that's gonna enable industry and it really sets the pace for what we want out of these weapons. With that though, you got to have the ammunition, so the projectile, the lethal mechanism, that's been transferred over, the General Purpose Round anyways. Another significant accomplishment has been, we are TR Level five for the fire control. Because I think you mentioned earlier that having the weapon system of itself is great, but if you can't hit the target down range, first round, it's probably insignificant, right? You need that capability and that's really gonna take that weapon system, with the capability it's gonna have and the lethality up to another notch. The other thing we're doing is barrel life technologies and trying to increase the barrel life of some of these weapons, we know they're going to go through probably barrels quicker than we're used to see, and of course suppression technologies are very important. Next thing I'll talk about is LOE training and human performance. So one of our flagship programs is Mastery, so this program is all about really providing our squad leaders, platoon leaders, company commanders at the lower echelon level, both cognitive and physical status of the soldiers at any time and we've come a long way withy that. This is an OSD plus up program, in a conjunction with ARL and other partners, we've developed, we're going to develop I should say a suite of sensors that will be on a soldier, that will work within a cloud environment. We're working closely with the PM of IVAS, because they've got that capability that we think we can lock into and that information as well as medical command information will be the push up from individual soldier to the squad leader, the platoon leader, to get a status of that squad at any given time. I think that's obviously gonna give us increased capability in training, but also in combat operations. Okay, mobility, another area that we're focused on. So really there's two main focus areas here, one is physical augmentation, you know, it's exoskeletons, if you go around the corner, Lockheed Martin has a couple out there they're demonstrating. So what we've done in exoskeletons, we've asked Industry to provide the best that they have out there today, and we've taken them and we've talked about soldier touchpoints, we've done five major touchpoints with the 10th Mountain Division, we've got hundreds of hours of data from those soldiers on what they like and what they dislike, don't like, so what we're finding is that the technology is close, but we're not there yet. We still have to focus on really two key aspect, one is mobility for our infantry soldiers, but it can't be over-burdening and it can't weigh too much or they won't be able to carry it when they get to the next point and the other is the physical load, this heavy weight. I talked about it last year when I briefed, the ability of a 77 crew to lift the 98 pound projectile all day long, that's kind of a hard task, so we're looking at passive and ways they can do that. So we're gonna have industry here, we're gonna have an industry call here shortly for our next iteration of that. And survivability, we have developed a processing, we didn't develop the material, but we developed the processing mold if you will to allow this material to be molded into a helmet form that we have transitioned over to PEO soldier for their R-hips program. This reduces the weight of the current helmet by 40% and that's a significant achievement for our soldiers. On top of that, for just body armor, torso protection, we've been mandated by Congress to reduce torso weight by 20% and I'm happy to say that this year we believe we're gonna be at 24% on a reduction. And again that didn't come alone, that came from ARL, materials research and it came from work that we've done up Native. I forgot one other thing, let me backtrack for mobility, I apologize. One of the other key areas of mobility that we're focused on is squad precision areal resupply. So many of you are familiar with our JPADS program, that's a heavy, precision airdrop, 4,000 pounds and up, we've got a joint ACTD that we're working, with the other services to deliver 100 to 500 pound packages, resupply in complex terrains, so you can read that as cities or other areas. That's testing out, it's doing awesome right now in test, that should be fielded probably within the next year. I think that program actually ends this fiscal year, so that will be transitioned. We've got some other new starts, I'm gonna talk to General Hodne about it in our review next week that we're looking at within that area. And finally for protection. So right now, our enemies, they've got a unique ability to detect our soldiers from distance. So a lot of this work is classified, but we're working on how do we take the current uniform protection levels and increase that significantly so we can hide in all different environment in all different spectrums. That work is going on, we're pretty proud of that and the other part of that too is to protect our soldiers against the environmental threats, whether that's cold, heat, flame and all that stuff, so that's kind of the major areas that we're working on and I'm gonna turn it over to my friend, Don Reago. - Thank you, Doug. As Doug said, I'm part of the C5ISR center and we're part of the Engineering and Science Team that supports the CFT and PEO solder. And as a laboratory, we do both science and technology, so new cool stuff, but also provide the engineering support for things like IVAS, EMVGB and the Soldier Integration facility that General Hodne and Potts discussed earlier. So what I thought I would do is just cover a few groundbreaking areas we're working in since this is year in review, things we've done this last year, to give you some flavor for the work we're doing to support situational awareness and lethality. So the first effort is what I'd call the Digital Squad which is really about how new information technologies can work within IVAS to enable our squads. This includes work from the soldier center, ourselves, C5ISR, Army Research Lab and the Corps of Engineers and some of the work we did this year was hosting new augmented reality software into the TAC, the Army's Information System which is sort of the foundation of augmented reality. We experimented with taking vehicle video and providing it into an IVAS-like systems so soldiers could interact with the vehicle, it showed the ability to navigate with GPS denial and looked at things like how do you navigate without GPS when using say laser radar data. In the lethality area, we've developed a new digital weapon sight, started a new program called Lethality Smart Sensor which is really the first fully digital weapon sight designed to fit with the IVAS concept. This system provides new levels of information to the soldier, but it also will continue to reduce the size, weight, power and cost and improve performance. And for the first time, with LSS, we're sort of enhancing the understanding of the red picture in situation awareness as well as providing that weapon sight capability. Moving on to components I want to talk about now are experimental prototypes, we have system developments, but also we developed new families of components with industry to improve performance and the one I want to highlight for this year is new efforts in low light level, digital low light level sensors. We need to continue to refine and improve the state of the art digital low light level sensors, so we started two efforts, one, groundbreaking research in this area and then a second effort which is a manufacturing technology to make the existing low light level sensors and IVAS more affordable, and smaller and more compact. Another item I wanted to highlight is, we're beginning to look at small unit, manned, unmanned teaming, how can, now that we have this information environment, how can we bring other assets, manned, unmanned teaming assets to flesh out that situation awareness picture, to power our squads to act, and then the final thing, I want to draw from another part of our C5ISR center is the development of a new silicone anode battery. Everything I talked about up til now has got electronics in it, electronics use power, so even though we're managing the load side of the power, it's always nice to improve the ability to provide power. So the silicone anode battery work is improving the power density, in a safe and conformal format that will allow our soldiers to have that additional power they need to work in this digital environment. So that gives you some flavor of the types of work we've done this last year to support the CFT and now I want to turn it back over to General Hodne. - Thanks, Don. So, I really appreciate it there, their insight into what the CFT has been able to pull together again goes back to teamwork, pace of delivery and common sense innovation throughout this whole process. Among the things I'm particularly proud of, having been in infantry units for 28 years, is what we're doing and the speed at what we're doing to deliver the capability to the soldier. By the army of 2028 and this is, the Secretary mentioned it yesterday in his opening comments, by the army of 2028, the soldier lethality, CFT capabilities we're pursuing right now will be very much part of that army and that's something that this entire team is incredibly proud of. I think we didn't consume all the time, I think we have a few minutes remaining for questions so I'll turn it over to the floor. And also, there's a 1500 media round table I think for the CFT as well. - [Ray] Gentlemen, Ray Compton. With Soldier Lethality being face pace and cross with PNT-STI network and I'll use an example of IVAS, how are you addressing the risk and challenges of system integration? - That's great, thanks for queuing me on that. So the one I failed to mention, as part of this team, my fellow CFT directors and their partnered program executive officers, partnered laboratories, so we host a board of directors specific to IVAS that certainly unpacks a lot of other opportunities, so that includes the next-gen combat vehicle, CFT that includes obviously the synthetic training environment, we're partnered closely at every opportunity. It also includes the future vertical lift, cross-functional team because of the potential we see in that arena as well. And of course it includes the network CFT, General Gallagher and Bassett that are part of this, so that coordination happens routinely throughout CFT channels within Army Futures Command and then, you know, cross-talk among program executive offices, and internal to the labs, it is important. - [Matthew] Hi, Matthew Cox, military.com. Listen, thanks to you guys for doing this. So, could you bring us up to date as far as the next generation squad weapon testing, okay, so when are you gonna get the next generation squad fire control and when are you gonna get all the prototypes and when soldiers are gonna start testing those both together? And also, I'm sure you're doing this, but are you, you know, there are some soldiers that carry grenade launchers connected to their weapons, is that involved in the testing and what kind, have you done that already? Is that, have you got any feedback on that as far as how it effects the ergonomics of these weapons? - Hi, Matt, how are you doing today? - [Matthew] I'm good, how are you? - I think that was 10 questions. - [Matthew] Sorry! - It is what that was. - [Matthew] I don't get you guys that often. - And so, so Matt, what we'll do, for the most of that, let's do that at the press conference this afternoon, I don't know if you're gonna be able to be there, because that's a long explanation, so what we had to do with all the vendors is demonstrate that they meet the threshold of capability that we need in the weapon systems as described by the CFT. So we know that all vendors that have been selected to move forward meet those thresholds. We are also testing out, because we use a smart rail system on there that all of the systems that a soldier needs to utilize, that they utilize today, that we have the capability to utilize those systems on our next generation weapons. We're like General Hodne mentioned, last week we were doing, we were firing the weapons. So we're already firing the prototype weapons. In November I believe is when, I know I saw my team over here, I got Jason Buchan, I got Arch sitting over here, and so, in November, is that when we're bringing in next generation fire control? Proposals, so the proposals for the next generation fire control are due in November. So you got the smart guys sitting over here, over my shoulder, and then we'll bring all of that together, I think we actually start doing some testing in April with the weapons. I have to look at them and they have to nod their heads so that I make sure I'm answering right, for the weapons. For the fire control, so the question that he asked was, when are we supposed to get the prototypes for the fire control? I'm gonna look back at my team again. So they're telling me January, that was what the answer I got was. And we'll marry up the weapons and the fire control and we'll go in to testing in April. - All right, great. Well, thank you very much for joining us today, thank you. (audience applauding) 