 (dramatic music) - It is such a delight to be here with you this evening. Although it'd be great to be with you in person, I'd like to thank Martin and the Royal Institution team for making it possible for us to spend this time together virtually. Tonight we'll be exploring the hunt for new batteries. So lithium-ion batteries have revolutionized the portable electronics industry, since I was a kid. And I remember my mum and dad sending me off to university with a mobile phone that I used to use so sparingly, that the battery would last for several days. Now, I'm the mom, and my little boys are making use of their tablets to help them with their learning during these days of lockdown. Batteries are now finding ever increasing use in electric vehicles, and potentially in large scale energy storage. Finding suitable ways of storing energy is critical in making sure that we have access to supplies of sustainable electrical power. The demand is for lithium-ion batteries alone is so strong that the global lithium-ion battery market is forecast to exceed $73 billion by 2025. Our governments in the UK is committed to banning the sale of petrol and diesel cars by 2025, so there is an imminent move to electrify transport. So why are lithium-ion batteries so important for these kinds of applications? Let's explore this together, and find out a little bit about what kind of research is ongoing in the hunt for new batteries. But before we do this, I had a short pop quiz for us to do together, and I think people have been answering the questions in the polls. So let's take a look and see. How many AA batteries do we think it would take to charge a mobile phone for one year? When I looked at the poll just before we started the presentation, it looked like the majority of people had gone for 800 batteries, and they would be correct. Which are there more of, dogs in the world, batteries thrown away each year, or cars on the road in the UK? If you said batteries thrown away each year, you'd be correct. There are over 3 billion batteries thrown away each year, so a huge amount of work to be done in the recycling space for lithium-ion batteries. Okay, let's think about the weight of an electric car battery. This is slightly unusual question, but how many emperor penguins would that be equivalent to? When I looked at the polls earlier on, it looked like most people had gone for C, which is 10, and that would also be correct. An emperor penguin weighs around 23 kilos, so that's equivalent, you need like 10 of those to be equivalent to an electric car battery. Final question, in which century was the electric car invented? And I'm sort of curious to see, 54% of people have said that electric car was invented in the 1800s, and that is incredibly impressive, because that is the correct answer. So really well done if you got that right. Car manufacturers now are investing hugely in electric vehicles, but electric automobiles are not entirely new. So in 1901, a mortally wounded US president William McKinley was taken to hospital in an electric powered ambulance. In fact, in 1900, electric cars accounted for around one third of all vehicles on the roads in the US, only to be replaced by gasoline powered engines. So why were they so popular? Well, this quote from Thomas Edison on slide goes some way towards explaining why. He said, "Electricity is the thing. "No whirring and grinding gears. "No dangerous and evil smelling gasoline, no noise." But the range of these electric vehicles in the early 1800s was around 30 miles per charge. With lithium-ion battery powered cars today have ranges on the order of about 250 miles per charge. Now, that figure kind of varies, and it's dictated by a lot of factors, like how you drive the car, whether you're in a city, or whether you're driving up hills. The future in lithium battery powered cars and looking to improve on that range, which is one of the big concerns that consumers have. That is despite the fact that the average car journey in England in 2018 was just 6.6 miles. But however, range is one of the things that we're looking to improve. To do that, batteries need to improve on their specific energy, which is their watt hours per kilogram, or their energy density, which is their watt hours per liter. With the energy density being of particular importance for electric vehicles, because there's a limited volume to which those batteries could sit within. Energy density is the measure of how we apply to assess battery performance. So if a battery has high energy density, it's capable of storing a lot of energy, but in a small mass. That's different to high power batteries, where these can deliver power energy quite quickly, but we'll go through that a little bit more detail later. High energy batteries will allow your electric vehicle to drive further on a single charge. Now, there's a number of ways in which we can tackle this. I'm going to concentrate in this talk mainly on the chemistry and materials aspect, but there is a huge amount of work ongoing in designing and developing new battery architectures that can improve energy densities. So what do batteries do? This is my little cartoon. Batteries are used to power our portable devices, and increasingly our modes of transports. Now, I've mentioned named electric vehicles in my introduction, but there's lots of ongoing work to realize fully electric aircraft and maritime vehicles. So what's the challenge? And why are we on the hunt for new battery materials? Well, if we look at this little cartoon, if you own a laptop or a mobile phone, you'll be aware of that battery fading during the day, as you're using your device, as it's going through the motions, powering up your device, until it'll completely fade, and you can no longer use it until you recharge it. You might even notice that after some months of use, the battery doesn't seem to hold its charge as well as it might once done. Now, the reasons for this are quite complex. There's multiple processes ongoing in your battery, and numerous materials are involved. We'll take a look at this in a little bit more detail later, but one of the things that can happen with time is that the materials in your battery can degrade, and that can impact very negatively on the performance. So one of the challenges that researchers are trying to address is understanding how those degradation processes happen. And if we can understand them, then designing new ways in which you can avoid those processes that are so harmful to our battery materials. We're also discovering and developing new electrode and electrolyte materials that can improve battery performance, and lead to even better batteries in the future. Now, this seems the perfect place to introduce you to Faraday Institution, who, as Martin said, partnered with the Royal Institution to bring us tonight's live stream. So the Faraday Institution is UK's leading research institute for electric chemical energy storage, science, and technology. Now, this slide is showing you the range of activities that Faraday Institution researchers are engaged in. These includes, down here, extending battery life, by developing our understanding of degradation, and trying to determine strategies that alleviate those degradation effects. Next, we have multi-scale modeling, where researchers are developing new design tools that can accurately predict battery performance and lifetime. Next, we have electrode manufacturing, where researchers are developing new methods for manufacturing smarter electrodes, that will enable longer range and even greater durability. Next, we have two projects on developing the next generation of lithium cathode of materials, and that's to exploring alternative chemistries that could enable greater energy density, reduce our costs, and prolong lifetimes. And we have projects that are pushing us to think about alternatives beyond the lithium-ion. So these include the development of solid state batteries, and this is where lithium metal could increase the range and make these batteries lighter. People are accelerating the development of sodium-ion batteries, and that would represent a lower cost alternative to lithium-ion batteries. And there are also a group of researchers working on the development of lithium sulfur batteries, which could herald improvements in specific energy, could widen the usable temperature range you can use these batteries at, and offer cost and safety benefits as well. Another vitally important project, and it's underpinning all of this. You can see it in the bottom of the slide here, is the recycling and reuse of batteries. And this is where researchers are establishing the necessary technological, economic, and legal infrastructure that could support recycling of materials, that are contained in lithium-ion batteries. There's also exciting developments in the application of computational tools, that can help us predict new materials or understand mechanisms in more detail, as well as the development of new state of the art characterization and diagnostic tools for intimate investigations of batteries. These projects are bringing together hundreds of experts and researchers from across the UK, in a highly collaborative manner. I have the great privilege of leading one of these projects on next generation cathode materials, called FutureCat, and we are a consortium of over 50 researchers working on developing the next generation of lithium-ion cathodes, looking at new synthesis routes to cathodes, discovering brand new chemistries, and applying advanced characterization techniques and computational tools to understand and manipulate our materials. We're also working really closely with industry to make sure that the materials we're making and we're developing actually meet the needs of industry. So tonight, through the power of prerecorded interviews, you'll get the opportunity to meet some of these fantastic researchers, working with the Faraday Institution. But before we look at where we're heading, we need to understand where we've come from. So let's take a look back at how we got here. So here I've shown an image here of Galvani, and also a frog, so why have I done this? Well in the late 18th century, it was a hugely exciting time for electricity. You had Benjamin Franklin's famous experiment where he used a pipe to draw electricity from lightning, through to the emerging field of electrophysiology. And one scientist who's at the heart of all of this was Luigi Galvani, who was a professor at Bologna. Now, Galvani was experimenting with dissecting frogs legs. Now, here I'm showing you an almost healthy frog. We had to rescue this frog from our cat over the summer. But here is a picture that probably better represents the work that Galvani was doing at the time. Now, what Galvani's experiments showed was that when a frog's leg is connected to its spinal cord, using two different metals, and these metals touched, the frogs leg twitched, and this was a groundbreaking experiment. He set about, he turned this sort of behavior, animal electricity, and he believed that that electricity was intrinsic to the frog. Now, around about the same time, Alessandro Volta, who was a professor of physics at the University of Pavia, he was disagreeing with this hypothesis that electricity was intrinsic to the animal. So he said about experimenting instead with connecting different metals to see if an electric currant would result. What I'm showing here is a picture of the Voltaic pile that's housed at the Faraday Institution, and if we take a look at it in a little bit more detail, I can break it down by using this cartoon. So in his experiment, Volta stacked alternate layers of two different kinds of metals to create what we call a Voltaic pile. Now, if we look at the schematic on the right-hand side, we can break this down even a little bit more. The two metals that we've employed here are copper, which is shown in orange, and zinc, which is shown in blue. And these are separated by these green strips that I've shown, which are cloth that's been soaked in a salt water or brine solution. Now, the combination of different metals resulted in an observed electrical current. Volta had realized that these different metals had different electrical effects, and we'll see this in detail in a few minutes. He did use this at a time when electrons, atoms, ions weren't known. So what is happening in this Voltaic pile? Well, zinc is being oxidized. So if you can remember back to chemistry, this means that you're losing electrons, and in this case, if you look at that first equation at the top, you're losing two electrons. Now, these zinc-ions are now released into this brine soaked cloth. Within that brine cloth, in that brine solution, we have protons or H plus ions, and H plus ions can accept those electrons that have been liberated from the zinc. In this second equation we're showing, where the hydrogen ions, or the protons are now gaining electrons, and we term this conduction. Now, if we were to connect a wire to both ends of that pile, we would start to get a steady current flowing. So why is this happening? Well, Volta had even arranged these elements depending on these electrical effects. The arrangement were a list or a series that we now know of as the electromotive or electrochemical series. And I've shown it as a much shorter list of it here on the left-hand side of this slide. This is where we can arrange a series of chemical elements, in order of their electrical potentials. So elements that have the greater tendency to lose their electrons to solution, we term those as being electropositive, whereas those that gain electrons, we term those being electronegative. Now, what we can see from the list that I've drawn out here is that zinc is higher in the electrochemical series than copper, so we know now that copper will attract electrons more than zinc. So the electrons are lost by zinc can concentrate on that copper surface, and if we connect a stack of alternating metals to an external wire, these reactions between the electrodes, and that surrounding brine solution, would allow electrons to flow through the wire. Different metals that are combined in the electrochemical cell can produce different voltages, and if we pair metals that are spaced much further apart in the electric chemical series, then we'll see a higher resulting voltage produced across that cell. Now, what Volta hadn't come to realize is that the electrolyte is where all the action was. Things are happening at the interface, and that's going to be really important. The Voltaic pile was revolutionary. Scientists now had a means of producing a steady source of electricity for the very first time. And we've named the standard unit of electric potential was named after Volta in recognition of this. So from our examination of the Voltaic pile, we can see that batteries are using chemistry, in the form of chemical potential, to store energy. To investigate this conversion process in greater detail, I visited our local Bradway Primary School, to meet with some of the foundation stage pupils, who helped me with a demonstration of potential energy. I'm really excited this morning because I'm heading to Bradway Primary School, where I'm going to meet with the children in the foundation stage years, and their teachers Ms. Campbell, Ms. Simpson, who are gonna help me with an experiment on energy storage. I'm gonna try an experiment, because I've heard that you have the most energy in Bradway Primary School, is that true? - [Students] Yeah! - [Serena] And are you gonna be able to show me, if we do an experiment together? - [Students] Yeah! - [Serena] Fantastic. So if you can jump up and down on the spot, while I play the tambourine, we can measure how much energy you've got, okay? - [Teacher] Ready? - [Serena] Ready, steady, go! - [Teacher] Jump, jump, jump. (tambourine rattling) - [Serena] That is fantastic. Thank you so much. I think you did a brilliant job. Give yourselves a big, big clap. (students clapping) That's absolutely brilliant. So we were doing all of that because we want to learn about how energy is stored, and one of the things that I like to learn about are batteries, and what did you say batteries could be used for? Can anyone remember? - [Students] Toys! - Toys. - Remote control cars. - [Serena] Toys, and motorcars, and torches, that's fantastic. You know a lot about batteries, don't you? So batteries store up all that energy, so that you can use it when you need to, and that's what we're gonna learn about. So can I say thank you so much to all of you for helping me with my experiment. You were fantastic. Well done, everyone. Do you want to wave goodbye? - [Students] Bye! - Bye. So our pupils, who've helped us with this energy experiment, have chemical energy in their bodies, and are using their muscles to convert this chemical energy into kinetic energy, and that's what we observed, as they're jumping off the ground. So at the top of the jump, this kinetic energy becomes potential energy, and we can estimate this using this equation for potential energy, which said that potential energy, or PE, is equal to the mass, which we estimate is 20 kilos for one child, times the acceleration due to gravity, times the height, as a distance from the ground, which we've estimated as 20 centimeters. So let's go through this calculation. We have our 20 kilos for each child, our 9.8 meters per second squared, and .02 meters for the distance of the ground. So this computes as a potential energy of 39.2 joules per child. Now, we had 30 pupils in our class, and that equates them to 1.18 kilojoules per year, per jump. So kilojoules, I've just converted joules into kilojoules. Now, if we have 30 jumps that are happening, so these kids are jumping at about two jumps per second, we end up with a value of 35.3 kilojoules per class for 30 jumps. Now, we can convert that into the power in kilowatts, if we divide the energy in kilojoules by the time, T, taken in seconds. Now, our foundation stage students jumped 30 times in 15 seconds, which is impressive. So we can calculate the power in kilowatts as being 35.2, sorry, 35.3 kilojoules, divided by 15 seconds, and that gives us an answer of 2.35 kilowatts. Now, that is about equivalent to the power that's consumed by an average electric kettle, which is pretty impressive. However, we can't really have our foundation stage students jumping up and down on spot to power our kettles. We can think back on this idea that batteries are using chemistry. We can think about cars as an example of converting potential energy into kinetic energy. So in a petrol fuel car, we can think of the fuel in the tank as being a store of potential energy. The car's ignition system that is providing the spark that ignites that air fuel mixture, and what we get then is the conversion of the stored chemical potential energy into kinetic energy, in the engine and wheels, which we see in the response of our car driving on the road. For electric vehicles, this potential energy is instead stored in a battery, which, when switched on, can then power the electric motor that turns the wheels. Now, it was Faraday who showed that the voltage cell was chemical in nature, through his work on electrolysis. And he was the one who coined these terms that we use today to describe components of battery cells. The electrode, which is the cathode and anode, the electrolytes, the ions, the cations, and anions. He was the one that discovered that the source of electricity, or the electromotive force was from these chemical reactions that were occurring on the electrode electrolyte interface. Now, we can use Faraday's Law to determine quantitative information about battery cells today. For example, the capacity or the charge that's stored by a battery, which depends on the mass of the active material that's present, and we use this equation here to work out what the capacity of our batteries are. Now, how do these batteries work? Here is an image of a coin cell, and batteries can contain one or more of these identical cells, each of which stores electric power as chemical energy into electrode. The negative anodes, and the positive cathode. These are separated then by an electrolyte. The reaction that occurs in the battery between these electrodes has both an electronic and an ionic part, so let's look at this individually. You can see how the battery works when we connect it up to an external surface. The cathodes and the anodes, positive and negative ends of the battery respectively, are hooked up to an external circuit that permits the flow of electrons. Now, you have chemical reactions in the battery that cause a buildup of electrons at the anode. The role of the electrolyte is crucial. It prevents those electrons from simply moving back up to the cathode. So instead electrodes, or electrons, can move through an external wire, connected to the anode, and the cathode, and as they do that, they can perform their function along the way, which in this case is lighting up our light bulb. Now, what about the lithium-ions? Let's take a closer look at how the lithium rechargeable battery came about. How did we get to this point? We're motivated by the desire to move to fossil fuel free technologies. In the 1970s, researchers were really interested in demonstration how lithium-ions could reversibly insert into transition metal layered sulfide cathodes. Now, Stanley Whittingham developed a layered titanium disulfide, which I've shown in these slides here, that could discharge to lithium titanium sulfide via a reversible lithium insertion process. However, there were some issues with this battery, as lithium dendrites could grow, which are like small fuzzy pieces of lithium, that can grow across your cell. They can cross the electrolyte, and reach the cathode, and that can cause a short circuit, and potential fire hazard, with this flammable, organic electrolyte. Now, around the same time, John Goodenough was experimenting with transition metal oxides to see whether a discharged state, or one with lithium, could be prepared, and the lithium-ion's reversibly extracted in these. He had also predicted that the cathode could have even greater potential, if it could be made out of an oxide, instead of a sulfide. Now, he demonstrated that for lithium cobalt oxides, the cathode that's shown in this image, half of the lithium could be extracted reversibly. What followed on then was worked by Akira Yoshino, that then showed that a lithium-ion rechargeable battery could be fabricated by combining lithium cobalt oxide with a graphitic carbon anode, and that went on to power the first mobile phones. Let's look at this in a little more detail, so we can see what's happening to the lithium-ions during the charge and discharge process. So during charging, the cathode is giving up some of its lithium-ions, and these are moving through the electrolyte, across to the negative electrode graphite, and during this process, the battery's taking in and storing energy. Now, on the reverse, when the battery's discharging, the lithium-ions are moving back through the electrolyte, to the positive electrode, and that's producing the energy that powers our battery. In both cases, the electrons are moving, are flowing the opposite direction to the ions around the outer circuit. So electrons, remember, don't flow through the electrolyte, only the ions. Now, this is a reversible process, so we call this a rechargeable battery. It's decided it would like to do it again, so we're recharging our battery, now we're discharging our battery. Our lithium-ion's in green, and shuttling through that electrolyte, and back into the cathode. Now, it was this pioneering and inspirational work that continues to have such enormous benefit to humankind, that Goodenough, Whittingham, and Yoshino were awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in chemistry. So having looked at the developments that have gotten us to where we are, what are the next 20 year targets for batteries? First, we have a desire to reduce the cost, and again, this is where chemistry can come into play. If we could reduce our reliance on some expensive elements, and move to more sustainable alternatives. Safety, of course, is another issue that we want to make sure that we consider. You might remember some of the safety issues around the Samsung Galaxy Note 7, back in 2016, that led to a product recall, and that just highlights the need for us to deepen our research on the safety of batteries. We also require improvements on extending the first life of batteries, as well as improving the recycling infrastructure around batteries. Now, as you can see from these targets, the ongoing collaborative projects with Faraday Institution are really tackling each of these important areas. We also have energy density and power density measured there, which are two parameters that we often use to evaluate a battery's performance. If the battery is high energy density, it's capable of storing a lot of energy in a small mass. So we can think about our mobile phones as being a really good example of this. We can use them for most of the day, and when we recharge them, they require a few hours. Power density tells us about how much power a battery can deliver on demand. So high energy does not mean high power. So let's look at this in a little more detail. Let's take a virtual journey to Alpe d'Huez, the famous climb that often features in the Tour de France. Here is a rather fetching photo of me, sporting my queen of the mountains hat, and a rather fetching parasol. But here is a photo of an actual cyclist. This is my husband, Eddie, and the yellow trail that you can see in that photograph is his route up Alpe d'Huez on this bike. Now, again, we can calculate potential energy, since Eddie's traveling up this mountain. So he starts at 713 meters above sea level, and finishes 1830 meters above sea level, taking just under two hours. Now, we can calculate the height gained, and the time in seconds, and we know the mass of the rider and the mass of his bike, and so we can calculate the potential energy, which turns out to be 994 kilojoules for our intrepid bike rider. We can also calculate the power, as we did before, and we end up with an average power output of 147 watts over the climb. So that's pretty good going over two hours. Now, what if we think about power? So in the previous slide, we had seen from Alpe d'Huez that on the climb up that mountain, Eddie had maintained an average power output of 147 watts over approximately two hours. So what happens if we want to try to get to 500 watts, and what sort of time can we try to maintain? So let's ask Eddie if he can up that watt to 500 and see what happens. - Okay. - This is for the good science, honey. Okay, we're up at 800, 900, a 1000 watts, and Eddie's able to maintain that just for a few short seconds. Thank you so much, honey. So I should really thank my husband there. That's what true love looks like. But as you saw in the video, you can think of high power density as short burst of power, that you might need, like if you need it in a power tool. Now, commercial lithium-ion batteries are often optimized for either high energy density or high power density. And sometimes we can tailor our material, for example, by thinking about the morphology of our materials, and how that might influence the power or the energy characteristics. What if we want to improve a specific characteristic, like energy density? Let's take a look at a material that's finding increasing use in electric vehicles today. This structure that I've plotted here, lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide, which is a bit of a mouthful, so let's call it NNC for short. As we take a look at this crystal structure, we can see that it's really reminiscent of the lithium cobalt oxide that we saw earlier. You have those beautiful layers in blue, made up of our transition metal ions, and oxygen ions shown in orange, with our lithium-ions in green, that are occupying the spaces between those layers. Now, if we take lithium cobalt oxide as a starting point, the cobalt can be replaced by other metals, like manganese. This is important as it will reduce our dependency on expensive toxic elements like cobalt, and there are also a number of ethical concerns surrounding the mining of cobalt. But by increasing the amount of nickel that we have in these materials, we can actually increase the amount of lithium that can be cycled in and out of that cathode. So to find out a little bit more about this, and the research that's ongoing at the Faraday Institution, I spoke to Beth Johnston at the University of Sheffield, who's a post-doc, working on next generation cathodes. So I'm joined today by Dr. Beth Johnston, who is a researcher working with the Faraday Institution at the University of Sheffield, and she's been developing new cathode materials for lithium-ion batteries. Thanks very much for joining us today, Beth. I just wanted to ask you a few questions about the research that you're doing, and I suppose the first one I wanted to ask about was, when it comes to these cathode materials that you're working on, why is there such an interest in high nickel cathodes? - When we begin to increase the amount of nickel that we have in these cathodes, what we actually can do is increase the capacity of our cathodes, which can increase the energy density of our cathodes, which is a major driving force towards these high nickel content cathodes. We're always looking for cathodes that have higher energy densities. So energy density is key here. - You've mentioned that this move towards high nickel content cathodes is driven by energy density. What about the other elements that are contained in those cathode materials? - So, many of our batteries nowadays, they rely both on nickel, as I've mentioned, and they also rely quite heavily on cobalt as well, which is another metallic element. However, there's been a drive recently towards these cobalt free or low cobalt materials. The metallic element cobalt, it's expensive, it's toxic, it's not found in many places in the world, which brings up supply chain issues, and there's also also ethical issues surrounding its mining practices. So we're looking to remove this cobalt, or severely reduce the amount of cobalt we have in these materials, to make these batteries a bit more sustainable, and one way we can do that is if we increase the nickel, we can take out some of the cobalt. - So is it just as simple as removing some cobalt, and increasing the amount of nickel that you have in these cathodes? Can you follow the same synthesis procedures? - No, not quite. As we increase the nickel content, the synthesis slightly changes. The chemistry of our material slightly changes, and we get a few challenges along the way, if we want to incorporate more nickel into our material, and facing these challenges and solving them is part of my research. - Could you tell us a little bit about some of the research that you're doing to try to make some of these next generation high nickel content cathodes? - Yeah, so my research focuses mainly on trying to really simplify these synthetic procedures that we use to make these materials, and easier routes to these beautifully layered structures, where we have our lithium layers, and our other nickel layers. So the lithium can really nicely move in and out of our material during charge and discharge of the battery. One of the ways that we're doing this is we're investigating the use of microwaves, during our synthesis process. One of the great things about microwaves is they can really reduce the amount of side reactions we have in our reaction. So what we're making is these really nicely layered structures, where our lithium can move nicely in and out. Microwaves also enable us to do our reactions at lower temperatures and shorter times, which makes a more economical route to their synthesis, which is really important when we're looking at scaling up our synthesis to make large, large quantities of cathode material, which is especially important for industry considerations. - So you've mentioned coming up with new sustainable routes to cathode materials, and looking at trying to make more, using more sustainable metals in these cathode materials. Are there any other families of cathodes that your team is currently exploring? - Yeah, there has been recently an increasing interest in a family of cathodes called the disordered rock salts, and these rely mainly on manganese, rather than nickel and cobalt, and manganese is very abundant, it's very cheap and it's very safe as well. So there's a huge interest there for more sustainable cathodes in the future. At the moment, since these are now an emerging cathode material, there are some challenges surrounding it's a bit stability during cycling. But this is one of the main things we're also working on with the Faraday Institution, stabilizing these disordered rock salts, for more sustainable cathodes of the future. - That's fantastic. Thanks so much for joining us today, Beth. It's been great to hear about your research, and I look forward to hearing more about it in the future. - Thank you. - We have these fantastic cathodes. What is the issue? Well for one thing, the cartoons that I've been showing you are highly simplified. In reality, we have lots of particles aggregated together, and that means we have grain boundaries, as well as interfaces between the electrode and electrolytes. And we often have other materials, like conductive additives like carbon, and binders that are also into the mix. So this is a highly complex system. And when you imagine that you've got all of these reactions occurring at the electrode, electrolyte interface, things might start to happen, and they certainly do. If you look at this cartoon, when the battery's cycling, there are often reactions that can happen at that electrode, electrolyte interface. And a layer can build up, which we term the solid electrolyte interface, which can form on the surface of the electrode, as a result of decomposition of the electrolyte. Now, the formation and the growth of that kind of layer still presents huge challenges to the research community, such as, can we understand the nature of that layer, and how can we perhaps try to control it? Another important degradation mechanism is particle cracking. This can happen when you've got some strain placed on your cathode particles, when you start to remove an awful lot of lithium. You imagine this is like sheets of paper, and the lithium-ions are moving in and out. Over time, it can start to feel a bit strained, because they're moving about to accommodate lithium. Now, when those cracks form, they start to expose more surface of your electrode, and that gives you more places where reactions can start to happen at the electrolyte. So finding ways of mitigating this cracking phenomenon is a really rich area of ongoing research. And we also face some challenges if we try to use lithium metal as an anode. Lithium's really light, electropositive, and if we're able to use this, then we could extend the range of our batteries. However, using the metallic lithium as an anode can result in the formation dendrites, that we mentioned earlier, which are sort of like whiskers of lithium that can grow from the anode, through the electrolyte, and across to the cathode, and that can cause short circuits, or even fires. With some emerging materials, we also face the challenge now of trying to understand their structures. So sometimes these materials have atoms that are in unexpected places. They might exhibit some degree of disorder, and understanding the nature of this disorder and how it affects the battery's performance is really important for realizing new battery materials. So I'm gonna show you some examples of ongoing research that's aimed at tackling these specific challenges, and they include things like finding new ways of making materials, that can give you control over the final particle shape and size. For example, that I've shown in this slide, looking at single crystal particles to see if perhaps that kind of morphology could have could mitigate or withstand that type of cracking behavior. You could, if we start thinking about it like wearing sunscreen when the weather's really hot, you could think about protecting your cathode as well with a protective coating. And if you can grow a protective coating around each of these cathode particles. So here I'm showing the cathode in orange, and a protective coating in purple. If you have that protective coating, you might avoid some of these unwanted side reactions, and prevent the early aging of your cathode, and that might prolong your battery lifetime, and it could ultimately reduce your costs. Now, there's also advances being made in how we investigate batteries, while they're cycling. So we don't have to cycle them to a point, take them apart, take out the stuff we're interested in, and look at that. Now, we can monitor those changes that are happening, as the battery is cycling. Now, I've shown you some examples here of using x-rays to follow changes in a battery, during cycling, and we'll get to take a look at this just towards the end of the talk. We're also interested in seeking out brand new chemistries, and we often do this through chemical intuition. But the power of computing really comes into its own here, and I spoke with computational expert, Professor Chris Pickard at Cambridge to find out some more. Thank you very much, Chris, for joining us today, to answer a few questions about computational tools that can help us in the search for new batteries. So on that, I just wanted to ask you, what sort of insights can computational tools give us in this hunt for new battery materials? - Well, over the last decade or so, the amount of computation that's been available, pretty much to everyone, from the iPhone in your pocket, to your desktop machines, it's grown astonishingly. And so what this allows us to do is change the way that we do our computational studies of materials. So when I started my PhD, I had to queue up to get on a workstation, that you had to use one after another to do a calculation. And you'd do that one calculation, and maybe you'd turn that into your PhD thesis, on one particular material. The change was that in the mid 2000s, many, many cheap high performance computers became available. The ordinary PC was appropriate for doing these kinds of materials modeling calculations. And so this gave a flip in the way that the calculations could be done. Instead of doing one calculation, you could do tens, and then eventually hundreds, and eventually thousands, and now tens of thousands, to millions of calculations at once. And so this was really pioneered in the energy materials space by Gerbrand Ceder in MIT, through what eventually became the Materials Project, and inspired the Materials Genome Initiative in the US, where he recognized that the modern computational quantum mechanical tools could allow him to screen through databases of known materials, and pick out the ones that had just the right properties. So he has had a huge success in there. I think they have several patented materials for new battery materials. At the same time, myself and others in the field, maybe from the more physics background, asked a more fundamental question, and that question was, how would an arrangement of atoms space themselves out? If we know nothing about the chemistry, let's just let them operate under the quantum mechanics, and move around and adjust. Could we, without knowing anything, predict the structure of diamond, graphite or buckyballs, or all these exciting different forms of carbon. And this is what's known as structure prediction, and there are different approaches to that, but they're all based on the fundamental idea of building random structures, and then letting the quantum mechanics move them, in the computer, to their low energy configurations. Now, if you do this once, you'll end up with rubbish, probably, okay. You'll end up with some amorphous carbon, or some high energy configuration, but if you do it 10, 100 or 1000 times, and look at the ones that are most stable, if your system is not too large, then you will start to repeatedly get the same low energy structures. And that will start to give you some confidence that you've found, really, the lowest energy configurations, and maybe some meta stable phases as well, which are very interesting too. So for the last decade or so, we've been using these structure prediction techniques in high pressure physics. This is maybe sort of a niche, but maybe some of you will have heard the news recently that using these techniques, room temperature superconductivity has been discovered. In fact, we've been working and trying to predict high temperature superconductors, using exactly these techniques. But always in the back of my mind had been that I want to do something useful with these techniques. Okay, so these high-temperature superconductors are fantastic if you're at the center of the Earth, but not immediately useful for everyday life. And actually a paradox is that computationally, dealing with high pressures is easier than dealing with the low pressures that you might encounter to in a battery, for example. The quantum mechanics, the approximation we use for the quantum mechanics, it's something called Density Functional Theory, works better when you squeeze all the atoms and the electrons close to each other. But if you take that pressure off, and you deal with the material at ambient conditions, the charge density is going up and down very, very strongly, and the approximations don't capture that so well. And so actually, in particular in energy materials, where transition metals and localized D electrons are so important, Density Functional Theory has struggled. So for a long while, that wasn't really possible with the techniques that we have, but now we have more reliable quantum mechanical techniques, that allow us to calculate the energies of these materials, and really starting with this FutureCat Faraday project, we've started biting the bullet, and trying to deal with some more complicated systems, with more elements in them, so the battery materials typically have three or four different elements going on at the same time. But also trying to deal with the difficult electronic structure, the way that the electrons are arranged in the material. So that's been the change, and it's something, conceptually the change to high throughput computing started 15, 20 years ago, but we always just move on to that more difficult problem. And at the moment, I think the real, this is the real challenge. Now, the other side to this is that we're generating large amounts of data, and when we started working, when I started doing structured prediction, I maybe would generate 10 structures overnight, and it was quite easy for me to look through them. But now we're getting to the stage where we're getting hundreds of thousands of structures to work our way through, and it's beyond the possibility for a single researcher to sort through them by hand. So this is where these new techniques, in machine learning, and artificial intelligence come in. They give us ways of summarizing, of reducing the dimensionality of the data, so we can actually plot it on a computer screen, and maybe making inferences, based on that data. - In the battery work that you and your team are doing specifically, what are the major challenges that your computational work, and the sorts of machine learning techniques that you've mentioned, what specific challenges are you after? - So the challenge, so what we would like to do is both help the experimentalists understand the experiments they've done, so that's our responsive mode. So when people come to say, we've got this thing, we don't quite know what it is, we don't quite understand it. And then computationally, we can put some constraints, or maybe give some suggestions as to what might be going on. But we'd also like to strike out into the unknown, and do our own experiments, but do them on a computer. And so mix together different elements that maybe the experiment is stayed away from so far. But if we could show that there was some promise there, then that might encourage experimentation to be done. So what are the challenges at the moment? So in the project, the challenges are dealing with essentially quaternary systems, so systems of at least four elements in them. There's just so many different possibilities of combinations of those elements together, without even getting into how are they arranged in space, just what ratios do we have to consider. The other challenge is real battery materials are not single crystals. They have defects, they have grain boundaries. Batteries, basically, are multiple different materials stuck on each other, that necessarily means there's interfaces. And we would like, and we have done some work on this, we would like to also predict the structure, or understand the interfaces between different materials. But immediately, this involves a much larger number of atoms than we're used to, and again, many more different possibilities of how they're arranged. So the situation we're in at the moment is that the more, there's never enough computing for us to solve this problem. And it's positive as well for the method, in that because searching through different compositions, or exploring larger systems, can be broken down into different chunks, they can be paralyzed, on these very large supercomputers. So you double the amount of computer, you get double the amounts of science, and that's not always the case. Many problems in science, when you try to move to a larger supercomputer, with more independent compute cause, you lose some of the advantages, as time goes on. But this problem is naturally paralyzable, maybe in the way that the experimental work is also paralyzable. You can have more students and postdocs, you can try more different things. - That's fantastic. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to speak to me today. I really appreciate it, and I'm looking forward to hearing more about your results. - It's a pleasure. - Thanks. Thinking about new chemistries, and potential sustainable alternatives, and some of the combinations of elements that Chris was talking about. Here I'm showing you a slightly unusual depiction of the periodic table of elements, where we can start to chart element sustainability. So green here indicates elements that are in plentiful supply, so things like iron, or sodium, or silicon. Orange, they're facing the threat from increased use. So things like cobalt and chromium, and then red are under some very serious threats in the next hundred years, things like zinc and strontium. And using this knowledge, we can start thinking about sustainable alternatives for battery materials. And one such example is the olivine structured lithium iron phosphate, which I've shown here. And you can see that this structure is slightly different to the layered one we saw earlier. Now, we have these channels through which our lithium-ions sit, that they can move in and out of during charge and discharge. We've talked a lot about batteries that are required for devices where size is really important, like small mobile phones, or cars where you've got space restrictions. What about large scale energy storage, where batteries could be used for enabling a more renewables led feature? So we do need to think about stationary batteries, which could provide greater flexibility in power systems, and maybe allow us to optimize our use of renewable energy sources, like solar photovoltaics or wind energy, since sadly, the sun doesn't always shine, and the wind doesn't always blow. So I'm showing here just one example of a lithium-ion battery chemistry that could be used, but there's lots of work ongoing in other systems like flow batteries, for example, that are trying to address these kinds of challenges. So for large scale energy storage, lifetime and costs will be huge drivers, and this is one material that could meet those demands. So at Sheffield, we've been developing, as Beth had said earlier, a new microwave chemistry, that we can make these very small particles of lithium-ion phosphate. And I'm showing you here in the top some images that we've taken with an electron microscope, because these particles are too small to see by normal light microscopes. And I've also shown you some electric chemical data that we use to evaluate the performance of these batteries. And what you see is, and if you look at the bottom graph, you'll see these numbers, with the letter C after them, and as you move down that step wise progression, what's happening there is the larger that number gets, you're cycling your batteries faster and faster and faster. And what you see is that you start to drop your capacity, as you cycle, charge and discharge your battery more quickly. The important thing to note here is that's final black line at 1C, that's holding steady, is showing us that even if we cycle our battery, after 500 cycles, we don't see any fade in capacity in that battery. I've also shown you here a picture of what my microwave looks like in the lab. It's a little different to the one at home, but in a similar way, it speeds up our reactions, so we can get making things faster. But to think about more sustainable alternatives, I spoke with Dr. Nuria Tapia-Ruiz at the University of Lancaster, who's part of a team that's leading research activity on sodium-ion batteries, with the Faraday Institution, called NEXGENNA. So I'm joined today by Dr. Nuria Tapia-Ruiz, from the University of Lancaster, who's been doing a lot of work on sodium-ion batteries. So I'm really keen to hear more about these today. Nuria, thanks for joining us, and I just wanted to ask you what kind of advantages do sodium-ion batteries present over lithium-ion? - So sodium-ion batteries are a low cost alternative to lithium-ion batteries. They are gaining nowadays more importance, due to raising concerns regarding an increasing demand in vehicle electrification, which will be using these lithium-ion batteries. And also the limited availability of lithium, and the problems on recycling these lithium. So far only 1% of the lithium that is being used, it's being recycled. And they are low cost, because the wide abundance of sodium. It is the fourth most abundant element on the Earth's crust, and more importantly, the use of an aluminum carbon connector, instead of copper, which is about three times much cheaper than copper. They also have the advantage of being safe, so unlike lithium-ion batteries, so we can transport them and also store them at zero volts, so completely discharged, without any safety issues. And given the higher weight of sodium, we are going to be using these batteries only in applications where the energy density is not a big concern, and that is larger scale energy storage systems. - So you've mentioned quite a few challenges there that still needs to be overcome to realize sodium-ion battery technology. Could you take us through maybe two or three of what you see are the major challenges that we're still facing. - Okay, so I think one of the biggest challenges is to gain understanding of the solid electrolyte interface, or SEI layer, that we have in anode materials, for these type of batteries. They are really complex and difficult to understand, given the higher reactivity of sodium, and also the higher solubility of these SCI products, when compared to lithium, which makes it really unstable, and very difficult to characterize. And the second challenge will be developing materials with high energy density. This is a very big challenge, because we have sodium instead of lithium, which is heavier, and also we are having a higher voltage. Therefore, we will need a careful control of the structure of these materials, in order to deliver comparable energy densities to lithium-ion batteries. - So you are part of a team who's leading a large national consortium on sodium-ion battery work in the UK. I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about that consortium, and then just a bit about the work that your team are doing at Lancaster, to answer some of these challenges that you've mentioned. - Right, so in my group, we are looking into designing new electrode materials, cathodes and anodes, or positives and negative electrodes, with special focus on layer transition metal oxides, that contain elements that are abundant and low cost, such as iron, manganese, titanium, copper, and that have the potential to deliver high energy densities, and high power. And recently, we have started working with hard carbons, which currently are the state-of-the-art anodes, in sodium-ion batteries, trying to make composites, meaning mixing these with metals, to deliver higher energy densities than the just hard carbon on its own. So all these research activities contribute to the research taking place at NEXGENNA, which is a 12 million Faraday Institution funded project, that involves a few academic institutions, such as St. Andrews, Cambridge, UCL, Lancaster and Sheffield, and the Diamond Light Source, and also industrial collaborators, such as AGM, Faradion and the regulator. And our main goal is to work towards the production of a sodium battery prototype, with outstanding electrochemical performance, in terms of energy density and also power density, as you mentioned earlier. - Fantastic. Well, thank you so much for joining me today. It's been a real pleasure to hear about some of the work that you're doing, and I look forward to hearing more about it. So this is looking at sustainable batteries. What about safer batteries? So a lot of research is ongoing at the moment on solid state batteries, where we are trying to replace these flammable organic electrolytes with safer alternatives that can increase the voltage that we can access, in our battery. So the advantages of solid state batteries is that they have high electrochemical stability, there's no need for physical separator, and they have potential to get to higher voltages, in a safer manner. Now, the challenges are that's when you are taking two solids together, let's take two solids as two pieces of Lego, okay? And we asking these two pieces of Lego to meet and marry, and if we do it the right way around, of course they will, but if we just wrong way around, they don't fit together, they won't stay together. So asking two solids to meet and marry and be happy about it can be a bit of a challenge, because you're trying to get lithium-ions to move from your solid electrode, through into your solid electrolyte. So ways around that might be, if we get some Play-Doh. I've raided my kid's toy box. You could think about making some kind of polymer, that you could put between your electrode, and your solid electrolyte, and that way you have nice connectivity between your electrode and your electrolyte, that would allow for lithium-ions to move between the two. Challenges there in interfaces, what can we do to try to alleviate that? We can think about polymers. We can think about nice coatings again, on the surface. We can think about tuning the structure of the materials, so that we can pick materials that match each other very nicely, that would allow lithium to move more easily between your electrode and your electrolytes. Instead of picking two very dissimilar materials, where your cathode and your electrolyte are very, very different, in terms of crystal structure, because that just makes your lithium pathway a lot more difficult to navigate. We've been doing this at Sheffield, coming up with new families of solid electrolytes, where we've been doing this sort of crystal structure tuning. And I'm showing you here this blue layer in this electron microscopy image, it's showing you an anode material that's sitting on top of your solid electrolyte. And this graph at the bottom with the up and down parts, this is one of these stability tests that we do to check to see the reactivity of our electrolytes with lithium. Remember, we'd like to be able to use the metallic lithium as an anode, but if we get the formation of these dendrites, that is a safety risk, and we find with these electrolytes that we don't see those dendrites formed. So we're making all these beautiful materials. I'm coming to the end of my talk now. How do we know that we've made what we say we've made? Okay, we do all this synthesis. We look at them with electron microscopy, to try to understand their morphology. That really helps when we're trying to pack them together into a battery. We use x-rays to try to understand the structure of our materials. These are things that we can still do in our own labs, around the country. But then when we get to slightly more exotic ways of looking at materials, like x-ray absorption spectroscopy, or x-ray diffraction computer tomography, where we can both collect the diffraction data, that contains within it all the information about how these materials atomically are connected together. And the power of computer tomography, where we can spatially resolve where different materials sit within a battery. Or what if we want to try to probe very light elements, where things like neutron diffraction's really important. Well, I don't have a neutron diffractometer very close to me, and what if I want to probe things like lithium diffusion in my materials, using a technique called muons, in relaxation spectroscopy. This is where we are incredibly fortunate in the UK that we have access to some world-class facilities, at the Diamond Light Source, and that the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source. And in my final interview I'm gonna show you today, I had a chat with one of the researchers at the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source, about some of the work that he's doing to try to understand structure and dynamics and materials. - ISIS is a world-class research facility where neutrons and muons are produced to answer some of the most interesting questions in various scientific disciplines, from chemistry, physics and biology, to archeology. Now, neutron and muon instruments can be thought as very powerful microscopes that allow scientists to look into the insides of matter. And each different instrument and technique is designed to investigate different aspects of sample, such as how atoms are arranged, and how they move. And looking into the inside of newly developed materials is very crucial to understand them, so that we can continue to improve them, and also to use the information that we get to design more new materials. This is why neutron and muon facilities, such as ISIS, play a key role in the hunt for new battery materials. Here at ISIS, we are contributing in two main ways to the FutureCat's goal of developing the next generation of lithium-ion cathode materials. First, we are using neutrons to study and determine the atomic structure of the different materials that are developed by the FutureCat collaborators, located all across the country. And at the same time, we are also developing new methods for measuring and analyzing those materials, so that we can improve our ability to study complex atomic structures much more effectively. Now, the other way in which we are contributing into the FutureCat project is by using muons to determine how easily lithium-ions move within the cathode materials. This is important because we need to ensure that the newly developed materials will allow for fast charging and high power discharge. So we are in Target Station 1, or rather the coffee lounge of Target Station 1, and here in the background, you can see most of the facility. So we are just gonna go in just to talk a little bit more about how neutrons and muons are produced. So this is Target Station 1, where 40 proton pulses are produced every second, 24 hours a day. Now, they are directed towards a big piece of tungsten metal that is over there. Because the protons are traveling very fast, they collide with a tungsten target rather violently, and this produces neutrons, about 20 neutrons per proton, that are traveling at very high speeds. Now, we can't use them like that, so what we normally do is, well, what we have to do is we slow them down first, through what we call a moderator. Now, after that, the neutrons fly off to the 17 different instruments, each one specialized for different purposes, to study different aspects of matter. Now, before the protons collide with the target, they first pass through a piece of carbon, and that process produces particles called muons. And those muons are also directed towards five different muon instruments that we have here, that just like neutron instruments are also specialized for different purposes. So this is Polaris. This is one of the neutron instruments that we are using to study the atomic structure of the next generation cathodes that the FutureCat is developing. So here is where we turn on and off the beam, and where we get the key to enter to the sample chamber. So here is where scientists would come in to put their samples or to remove their samples. If you can see over there, that's where the sample goes. Now, not on the top, it goes inside. So that bit over there comes up, and then we'll put the sample in, and then it goes down. So neutrons are coming from back there, all the way down to there, where the sample is inside, and then they get scattered by the specific atomic structure of the sample. So they get scattered in different directions. By studying their patterns, we can understand what is the atomic structure of the sample that actually scattered them. So then we need to detect where all the neutrons are landing. So we're going to go down to the detector chamber, so I can show you how do we detect all those neutrons that are scattered by the sample. And this is the detector chamber. (electronic whirring) The sample chamber that I show you, it's over there, and then neutron beam is coming all the way here, and it hit the sample back there. Neutrons are scattered, and they are detected by all these detectors that are positioned at different angles from a plane, where the sample sits. So neutrons will come at different, at all directions this way, that way, that way. So that's why we have to, we need to have a complete arrange of detectors, that allow us to know where they are, or where did they land, in every single direction. (alarm beeping) So this is an EMU instrument. This is one of the muon instruments that we are using to study the FutureCat samples. So here, muons come from over there, and then they get into the sample over there, they get implanted into the sample. And then after a very short period of time, in the order of two millionth of a second, they decay. And when they decay, they emit a positively charged particle called a positron, that then we can detect, and we can analyze to understand how lithium-ion diffusion occurs within the materials that the FutureCat is developing. - So with that, I wanted to thank everybody that was involved in helping me put this presentation together. In particular, I wanted to thank the pupils at Bradway Primary School for being fantastic at showing us their potential energy. My interviewees, Beth Johnston, who's at the University of Sheffield. Nuria Tapia-Ruiz and at the University of Lancaster. Chris Pickard at Cambridge. Gabriel Perez Garcia at ISIS Neutron and Muon Source. And I must thank my husband, Eddie, for all of his cycling during the preparation of this talk. Sophie Noble helped with animations, and want to thank all the staff with the Royal Institution, as well as everybody that's working as part of Faraday Institution. It's such an honor to be parts of the Faraday family, working on the next generation of battery materials. And thank you also to all my colleagues working on FutureCats. I hope that I've shown you today some of the work that we're doing to try to improve energy storage materials through the development and the deployment of new materials for lithium-ion, sodium-ion, solid state batteries. I didn't get a chance to talk about some of the other work that's ongoing, but hopefully in the future, you might hear more about that in a similar talk. So with that, thank you so much for your attention, and I'll be happy to take any questions. (applauding) 