RISK FACTORSWhen evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:•general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally;•changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers;•changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;•levels of inventories at our customers;•risk of excess and obsolete inventories;•our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;•availability of raw materials and equipment;•competitive developments including pricing pressures;•unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;•the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;•the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;•fluctuations in the mix of products;•changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;•announcements of significant acquisitions or any delays or unexpected developments with respect to previously announced acquisitions;11Table of Contents•disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;•constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;•costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business;•fluctuations in commodity prices; and•property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance.  In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.  Adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and recent economic uncertainty have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful.Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.  This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines.  Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity.  During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we reduced wafer starts in both Fab 2 and Fab 4, implemented rotating unpaid time off and had multiple planned shutdowns in our Thailand facility to help control inventory levels in response to adverse economic conditions.  This lower capacity utilization resulted in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins.  From the March 2010 quarter through the September 2011 quarter, we were running at more optimal levels of capacity utilization.  However, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts to control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions.  We continued with the reduced level of wafer starts in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.  These recent actions had a negative impact on our gross margins.We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments.Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders.  We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter.  Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.  Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments.  Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.  Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast.  If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely  suffer.Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do.  We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business.  Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to:12Table of Contents•the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;•our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;•the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications;•product introductions by our competitors;•the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;•our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;•our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;•our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain;•our ability to address the needs of our customers; and•general market and economic conditions.Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time.We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.  We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.  We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog products.  We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 and approximately 58% of our net sales in fiscal 2011.  Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011.  We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.Any future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors.  Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation.  In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns.Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements.  The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to:•proper new product selection;•timely completion and introduction of new product designs;•timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs;•availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products.  In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance.  We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results.13Table of ContentsOur success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies.  Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures.  We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.In connection with our acquisition of SST in April 2010, we acquired SST's intellectual property licensing business which is based on its SuperFlash technology.  The success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future.  To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively.  The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to:•proper identification of licensee requirements;•timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology;•our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology;•availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology;•availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support OEM production; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our SuperFlash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology.  There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance.  Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them.  Our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters.  We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims.  Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management.  Any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results.We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense.Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel.  The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense.  We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require.  The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business.  We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. We are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors.We use several contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products.  We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication.  Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results.Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.  Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption.  Further, procurement of required products and services from third parties is done by purchase order and contracts.  If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products14Table of Contentsin a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us.  In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.Certain of our SuperFlash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services.  If the licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from the wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results.We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs.Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards.  The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts.  An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand.  Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year.  However, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.  The industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity.  We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments.  However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions.We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims.We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against us or the customers or licensees by third parties.  These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources.  If we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed.It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products.  These claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers.  We could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to:•costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products;•recalling nonconforming products;•providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims;•diversion of resources from other projects;•lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables;•customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and•a requirement to pay damages.15Table of ContentsBecause the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved.  While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law.  We do have liability insurance which covers damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims.  Costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations.Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons.  We may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause the system failures.  We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products.Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities.Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success.  To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes.  The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications.  In addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us.  We may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, patent offices of a foreign country or U.S. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.  Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us.  Although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors.Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers.We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers.  However, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers.  The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues.We do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers.We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers.  When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer.  Even though we had approximately 74,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 8% of our total net sales in fiscal 2012, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.Further, as the practice has become more commonplace in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale.  For example, under these contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for claims of intellectual property infringement.  If we agree to special supply terms and we become unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues.  If we agree to special warranty or indemnification provisions, we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees.  While we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities and set caps on our liability exposure, such provisions do expose us to significant additional risks and could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.16Table of ContentsBusiness interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business.Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control.  These reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters.  We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. In particular, Thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years; however, our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally.  There can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.  If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment.  If we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms.  This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers.  Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. Additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons.  In the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer.  Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties.  We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks.Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales.  During fiscal 2012, approximately 82% of our net sales were made to foreign customers.  During fiscal 2011, approximately 80% of our net sales were made to foreign customers.  We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers.  In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past.  From time to time, Thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding; however, our facilities have continued to operate normally.  There can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.  We use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements.  Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to:•political, social and economic instability;•public health conditions;•trade restrictions and changes in tariffs;•import and export license requirements and restrictions;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;•employment regulations;•disruptions in international transport or delivery;•difficulties in collecting receivables;•economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; and•potentially adverse tax consequences.If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our operating results. We use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures.  Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-U.S. dollar 17Table of Contentstransactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the U.S. dollar, such as past declines in the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products.  In periods when the U.S. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the British pound, Euro and Thai baht, the operational costs in our Eur