RISK FACTORSWhen evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:•general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally;•changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold;•changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions including our acquisition of Atmel;•our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand;•changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;•our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;•the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;•levels of inventories held by our customers;•risk of excess and obsolete inventories;•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business;•competitive developments including pricing pressures;•unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;•availability of raw materials and equipment;•our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs;•the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;•the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;•fluctuations in our mix of product sales;•announcements of significant acquisitions by us or our competitors;•disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;•constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;•costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;•fluctuations in commodity prices; and•property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our acquisition of Atmel, uncertain global economic conditions, the ongoing economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful.Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels.  This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment 12Table of Contentsdeadlines.  Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity.  Although we operated at normal capacity levels during the last three quarters of fiscal 2015, the first two quarters of fiscal 2016, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, and throughout fiscal 2017, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods.We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our acquisition of Atmel.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.  On April 4, 2016, we acquired Atmel, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever.  In addition, in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel; in July 2014, we completed our acquisition of a controlling interest in ISSC; in April 2014, we completed our acquisition of Supertex, Inc.; and in August 2012, we completed our acquisition of SMSC.  The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.  We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.  We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.  There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.  We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.  We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.  We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.  See "