Risk Factors When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:•general economic, industry, public health or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally, including ongoing uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 virus and its implications;•disruptions in our business, our supply chain or our customers' businesses due to public health concerns (including viral outbreaks such as the COVID-19 virus), cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, fires, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;•constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;•changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold;•the level of order cancellations or push-outs due to the impact of the COVID-19 virus or other factors;•trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including those impacting business in China, as well as those focused on specific companies;•the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;•our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our past or future acquisitions;•our ability to adjust our factory capacity to respond to changes in customer demand; •changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;•changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; •levels of inventories held by our customers;•risk of excess and obsolete inventories;•competitive developments including pricing pressures;•unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;•availability of raw materials, supplies and equipment;•our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs;•the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter, including the impact of product lead times;•the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;•fluctuations in our mix of product sales;•announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors;•costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation, investigation or claims involving intellectual property, our Microsemi acquisition, customers or other issues;•fluctuations in commodity or energy prices; and•property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance.  In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.  Uncertain global economic and public health conditions, such as the COVID-19 virus, have caused or may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful.Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers.12Table of ContentsWe regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers.  However, any downturn in global economic conditions, as a result of the COVID-19 virus or otherwise, may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers.  The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales.The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the recent past and is likely to fluctuate in the future.  The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:•global economic and financial uncertainty due to the COVID-19 virus or other factors;•quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies;•changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance;•changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations;•general conditions in the semiconductor industry;•our ability to realize the expected benefits of our completed or future acquisitions; and•actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors.In addition, the stock market has recently and from time to time in the past experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies.  These broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock.  Some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially.We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our acquisition of Microsemi.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.  In May 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever, and, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel.  The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.  We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.  We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.  There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.  We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.  Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.  We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.  We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.  In particular, in connection with our Microsemi and Atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related to such businesses and transactions.  See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding such matters.  Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.  To fund our acquisition of Microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt.  We may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms.Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies, which may include site closures, on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.  These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated.  Even following a divestiture or other exit strategy, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to former employees, customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.  We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the former employees, assets or businesses.  Such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.13Table of ContentsIn addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies.  These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt.As of March 31, 2020, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $10.59 billion.  In connection with our acquisition of Microsemi, we incurred debt consisting of $3.10 billion under our revolving line of credit, $3.00 billion under our term loan facility, and $2.00 billion in senior secured notes.  At March 31, 2020, we had $2.39 billion in outstanding borrowings under our revolving line of credit which provides up to $3.57 billion of revolving loan commitments that terminate in 2023.  At March 31, 2020, we had $1.72 billion of outstanding borrowings under our term loan facility.  In March 2020, we financed the settlement of $615.0 million in principal amount of our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt through borrowings under our bridge loan facility.  At March 31, 2020, we had $3.87 billion of outstanding principal related to our convertible debt consisting of $2.77 billion of aggregate principal value issued in 2017 and $1.11 billion of principal value issued in 2015. As a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.  Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt, senior debt, term loan debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.Servicing our current debt requires a significant amount of cash, we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments and any adverse changes in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets.Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding convertible debt and senior notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors including uncertainties related to the COVID-19 virus.  Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions.  If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.  Our senior secured notes are rated by certain major credit rating agencies.  These credit ratings impact our cost of borrowing and our ability to access the capital markets and are based on our financial performance and certain financial metrics including debt levels.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings.  Any downgrade of our credit rating by any of the major credit rating agencies could result in increased borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets to refinance our existing debt or finance future debt. We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments.Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders.  We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter.  Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.  Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments.  Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.  Because turns orders are difficult to predict, especially in times of economic volatility such as those caused by the COVID-19 virus where customers may increase or decrease order levels within the quarter, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales.  As a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders.  If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer.14Table of ContentsWe may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs due to the impact of the COVID-19 virus, increased tariffs or other factors.Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards.  The materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.  Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers.  Also, the impact of the COVID-19 virus or the application of trade restrictions or tariffs by the U.S. or other countries may adversely impact the industry supply chain.  For example, in 2019, the U.S. government increased tariffs on products that have China as their country of origin and which are imported into the U.S.  Likewise, the China government increased tariffs on products that have the U.S. as their country of origin and which are imported into China.  We have taken steps to attempt to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business.  Although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019.  The additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending June 30, 2020 or future periods.  We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our operations.  This could also impair sourcing flexibility.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts.  In particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities.  An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.Our customers may also be adversely affected by these same issues.  The materials, components and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, consolidation in their supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions, the impact of the COVID-19 virus or application of trade restrictions or tariffs that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs.  If our customers are not able to produce their products, then their need for our products will decrease.  Such interruptions of our customers’ businesses could harm our business.Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do.  The semiconductor industry has experienced significant merger and acquisition activity and consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale.  We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business.  Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to:•the relative impact of the COVID-19 virus on us relative to our competitors;•changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets;•our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;•the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;•our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;•the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications;•the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products;•our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities;•product introductions by our competitors;•the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;•our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;•our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain;•our ability to address the needs of our customers; and15Table of Contents•general market and economic conditions.Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  The average selling prices of our microcontroller, FPGA, and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time.  The overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period.We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.  We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.  We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products.  We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors.We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs.  Specifically, during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, approximately 61% and 57%, respectively, of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries.  We also use several contractors located primarily in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products.  Specifically, during fiscal 2020, approximately 55% of our assembly requirements and 46% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 62% of our assembly requirements and 51% of our test requirements during fiscal 2019.  Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries has increased as a result of our acquisitions including our acquisitions of Microsemi and Atmel.  The disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results.Our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business.  Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels due to disruptions from the COVID-19 virus, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption.  If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all.  Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs.  In any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.  Further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.Certain of our SuperFlash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services.  If our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results.Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels.  This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines.  Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity.  In fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in unabsorbed capacity charges of $47.2 million and $16.2 million, respectively. 16Table of ContentsOur operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand.  Historically, since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business tends to generate stronger revenues in the first and second quarters and comparatively weaker revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year.  Broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions (including the impact of the COVID-19 virus or trade tensions) and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of Microsemi) have had and can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality.  As a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.  The semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity.  We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments.  However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions.Our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers.Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales in fiscal 2020 and approximately 51% of our net sales in fiscal 2019.  We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.Any future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies (including the impact of the COVID-19 virus) or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors.  Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation.  In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in demand for our products from our distributors, which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns.  Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business.Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.Our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements.  The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to:•effective new product selection;•timely completion and introduction of new product designs;•procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms;•timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs;•availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development.  In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance.  We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results.Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies.  Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures.  We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.17Table of ContentsWe continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems and any interruptions in our IT systems, unauthorized access to our IT systems or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business.We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex IT systems and networks to operate our business.  Any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations, sales and operating results.  Such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data.  Any loss of suc