Risk Factors When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:•general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally;•changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold;•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act);•new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices, including the impact of the new revenue recognition standard (ASC 606) on our financial statements;•our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions including our pending acquisition of Microsemi;•our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand;•our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;•changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;•changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;•levels of inventories held by our customers;•risk of excess and obsolete inventories;•competitive developments including pricing pressures;•unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;•availability of raw materials and equipment;•our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs;•the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;•the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;•fluctuations in our mix of product sales;•announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors;•disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;•constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;•costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation or claims involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;•fluctuations in commodity or energy prices; and•property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance.  In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.  Uncertain global economic conditions, the ongoing economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful.13Table of ContentsWe may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our pending acquisition of Microsemi.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.  On March 1, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Microsemi.  We expect the acquisition of Microsemi to close in June 2018.  In addition, in April 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel; and in August 2015, we completed our acquisition of Micrel.  The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.  We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.  We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.  There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.  We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.  Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.  We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.  We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.  In particular, as a result of our Atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the Atmel business.  See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation.  Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.  To fund our pending acquisition of Microsemi, we plan to use a significant portion of our cash balances and incur approximately $8.0 billion of additional debt through borrowings under our credit agreement and issuance of new debt.  We may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms.Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.  These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated.  Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties.  We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses.  Such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies.  These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt.As of March 31, 2018, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $4,481.3 million.  In February 2017, we issued $2,645.0 million of aggregate principal value of senior and junior convertible debt and amended our existing credit agreement to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios.  The February 2017 credit agreement amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property.  We used a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2017 senior and junior convertible debt to settle $431.3 million in principal value of our 2007 Junior Debt and $1,682.5 million to pay off the outstanding balance under our credit facility.  At March 31, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under our credit facility which had a capacity of $3,122.3 million and is comprised of one tranche expiring in February 2020.  In connection with the closing of our pending acquisition of Microsemi, we expect to incur approximately $8.0 billion of additional debt through borrowings under our credit agreement and issuance of new debt.  As a result of such transactions, we will have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past.  Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.14Table of ContentsServicing our current debt and expected debt to finance the Microsemi acquisition will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments.Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding debentures and expected debt to be incurred to finance our acquisition of Microsemi, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors.  Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions.  If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time.We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments.Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders.  We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter.  Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.  Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments.  Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.  Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales.  As a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders.  If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer.Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do.  The semiconductor industry has experienced significant merger and acquisition activity and consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale.  We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business.  Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to:•the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;•our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;•our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities;•the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications;•the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products;•our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;•changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets;•product introductions by our competitors;•the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;•our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;•our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain;•our ability to address the needs of our customers; and•general market and economic conditions.15Table of ContentsHistorically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  The average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time.  The overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period.We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.  We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.  We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products.  We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors.We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs.  Specifically, during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, approximately 42% and 41%, respectively, of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries.  We also use several contractors located primarily in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products.  Specifically, during fiscal 2018, approximately 58% of our assembly requirements and 36% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 64% of our assembly requirements and 40% of our test requirements during fiscal 2017.  Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of Atmel, Micrel, SMSC, Supertex and ISSC.  Microsemi relies on wafer foundries for a significant portion of its wafer fabrication needs.  Accordingly, upon completion of our acquisition of Microsemi, our reliance on third party contractors and foundries will increase significantly.  The disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results.Our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business.  Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption.  If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all.  Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs.  In any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.  Further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.Certain of our SuperFlash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services.  If our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results.Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels.  This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines.  Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity.  Although we operated at normal capacity levels during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods.16Table of ContentsOur operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand.  Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business tends to generate historically stronger revenues in the first and second quarters and comparatively weaker revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year.  However, broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions, and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of Atmel and our pending acquisition of Microsemi) can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality.  As a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.  The semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity.  We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments.  However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions.Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 and approximately 55% of our net sales in fiscal 2017.  We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.Any future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors.  Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation.  In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in demand for our products from our distributors, which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns.  Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business.Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.Our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements.  The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to:•effective new product selection;•timely completion and introduction of new product designs;•procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms;•timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs;•availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development.  In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance.  We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results.Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies.  Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures.  We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.17Table of ContentsWe may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs.Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards.  The materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.  Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers.  This could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts.  In particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities.  An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices, including ASC 606 which will impact our revenue recognition.We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.  These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC.  New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future.  New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective.  In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under generally accepted accounting principles in the Unites States of America (US GAAP).  The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  Upon our adoption of ASU 2014-09 beginning with our fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2018, we will no longer defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.  Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance and its expected impact on us.Business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business.Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control.  These reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, cyber attacks, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters.  We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. In particular, Thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years.  While our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations.  If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment.  If we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms.  This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers.  Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. Additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons.  In the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer.  Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline.18Table of ContentsOur technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.Our technology licensing business is based on our SuperFlash and other technologies.  The success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future.  To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively.  The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to:•proper identification of licensee requirements;•timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology;•our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology;•our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees;•availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology;•availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support original equipment manufacturers (OEM) production; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies.  There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance.  Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them.  Our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies th