 So today I'm gonna talk on the theme of putting big data to work, how we can think about big data and the new mobility together. So big data and new mobility—that's like four buzzwords in a row—so how do we turn this convergence of buzzwords into something really concrete and useful and go beyond the hype? To me, I always think most clearly around case studies and use cases so I want to ground my talk around a collection of use cases but what my hope is is that they illustrate themes, lessons learned, and some hurdles and concerns we should have as we leap forward into the new mobility future. We have analytics about cars, pedestrians bikes, trucks, and we're also starting to analyze new modes, like ride shares and scooters. And it's good to measure all those modes alone and it's also good to measure the new modes as they come out— it's also pretty hard. Not only do we have to figure out how to measure new things as they hit the streets—frankly, we haven't been doing a great job in measuring the old-fashioned things like pedestrians and trucks—so all these new modes are hitting our roads, behaviors are changing, the notion of what is a commute, working from home, delivery are all sweeping into our system changing all of our core assumptions. How do we get a handle on this ever-complexifying new mobility landscape? It is imperative that we adopt a stance of having persistent, independent impact metrics as new mobility hits the roads. And that means impact on congestion, on accessibility, on climate, on jobs, everything. Frankly, we should have had this the whole time because there's been plenty of mobility going on for several hundred years but luckily with the surge of big data technologies and this excitement around transportation that new mobility is bringing to us, now is the time to put these systems in place. Second, all these cool buzzy innovations: flying cars, autonomous vehicles, scooters, they rely on our core jobs as transportation professionals like maintaining roads, keeping the lines painted, making the signage clear. Unfortunately, some of the buzz is also distracting us from our core work especially in the, sort of, electeds conversation and in the way finances are moving. So we need to find a way to make new mobility and our core work come together not distract from each other. And third, a lot of people talk about the new mobility like it's something in the future—it's not. It's happening now and there's plenty of exciting work we can learn from now so that's what I hope to share today. The recipe for successful implementation of big data is first, have a set of concrete clear use cases and questions in mind, get those done, and then also allow space for more innovation. So I see a lot of conversations and pilot projects fail because there was no concrete outcome. There was just an "oh the innovation—the insights will just emerge from some cool data and maybe a few visualizations." That's not going to succeed—you can't have an "if you build it, they will come" mentality. You need a framework to be successful. So you have the benefit of making the right data-driven decision for the community and also—and this is nothing to sneeze at—the government could communicate back to the community that their ideas had worked—because the bollards were kind of annoying for the locals too—so you really had to prove that they made a big difference to justify that investment. So I love this case study because it shows a small city without huge planning resources being able to take advantage of big data quickly and cost-effectively and make some smart decisions. But also, I think it proves the point that we don't have to wait for some totally different surge of connected autonomous vehicles to hit the road to start studying and planning for and exploring how they might interact with some of our local concerns. And lastly—I'll come back to an earlier theme—this concept that talking about filling potholes and painting lines and doing maintenance and making bike lanes is boring—it's not boring. First of all, it's just flat-out important and second of all, any AV person you talk to will tell you that the most important thing a city can do to get ready for AVs is to make sure the lines are clean, to make sure the potholes are filled, to make sure the bike lanes are clearly indicated, and the trees are trimmed around the signs. And conveniently, those investments are things that will benefit everyone— drivers, bikers, walkers—on the roads today, as well as the new mobility future. So we have to find a way to keep doing our plain old responsibilities and use the excitement around new mobility to send that forward not distract from it. All of which is a long way to say that I think the most important new mobility technology that we all need to work on is paint—it's not that sexy, but paint is the manifestation of good policymaking. It's the manifestation of using the infrastructure we have to do amazing new things, like have a lane that's shared for bikes, scooters, roller bladers, electric unicycles, and everything else. All it takes is a stripe of green paint and a policy decision but it's probably the most powerful new technology a city could implement. [Applause] 