 [MUSIC] Good evening, welcome to the second program in our webinar series, NASA Aeronautics: Aviation at the Leading Edge. I'm Suzanne Smith, the director of the Kentucky Space Grant program, and the director of the University of Kentucky's Unmanned Systems Research Consortium, and a professor of Mechanical Engineering. NASA's Space Grant program has consortia universities and other partners in each state, plus Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. And we're all focused on STEM education, workforce development and aerospace research inspired by the exciting work of NASA's Mission Directorates. First, I want to thank Old Dominion University for hosting this webinar series and their fantastic facilities. And the Virginia Space Grand Consortium for coordinating these programs with NASA. Yes, we're called Space Grant, but we have members across the nation who work on aeronautics and aviation-related challenges. So for this series, we're focusing on the first A in NASA, aeronautics, the study of the science of flight. NASA has made decades of contributions to aviation, safe and sustainable by reducing emissions, noise and fuel consumption while enhancing safety in the national airspace. NASA developed technologies onboard literally every commercial aircraft and at every commercial airport in the US. We've partnered with NASA Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate to introduce you to the people, ideas and technology driving the ongoing transformation of aviation. So tonight, we'll look at Urban Air Mobility, an emerging technology for future transportation in densely populated areas that leverages recent R&D for a system to enable safe flight for drones. And we'll be answering questions after our main presentation. To submit a question, use the chat feature in the webpage at any time during the broadcast. Please include your first name, your major, and your university. First, welcome to Starr Ginn Lead for NASA's Urbain Air Mobility. A grand challenge at NASA's Armstrong Flight Research Center in Edwards, California. And Jeff Homola, integration and testing lead for Unmanned Aircraft Systems Traffic Management at NASA Ames Research Center at Moffett Field, California.  Good evening, thanks for having us.  Yeah, thank you.  So where are you each originally from, and where did you go to university?  So I originally grew up in Massachusetts. I bounced around a little bit before that as a son of a career navy sailor. So we bounced around to San Diego, Japan, Florida. And then after that to Massachusetts. So I kind of grew up there. After that, went into the Navy, myself, for a number of years. Eight and a half years. And got out, and I originally went to school in Monterey. So Monterey, California, at Monterey Peninsula College. And then from there, I went to UCLA, where I got a degree in cognitive science with a specialization in computing. And then a graduate degree in human factors from San Jose State University.  Wow, Starr.  Yeah, so I grew up in Southern California, Ventura County area, for half my life. And then for high school we moved up to Palmdale, Lancaster area, where is the mecca of Aerospace flight testing. And then I went to Cal State Northridge and did my mechanical engineering degree. And then after a couple of years of being in school, figured out that I wanted to go back and do a masters for the specific work I happened to be doing at NASA. So I went to UCLA and got a degree in aeroelasticity, a masters.  Well, to introduce our topic, tonight, we're going to have a short NASA video. So let's start, let's open up the skies. [MUSIC] To be honest, what immediately comes to mind for me with Urban Air Mobilities is the Jetsons, I'm that generation. But seeing this video, it seems really different than that. How do I match my expectation with reality?  Yes, so the Jetsons was kind of an idea of a car comes gets you at your house and takes you where you need to go. And there's these lanes in the highway. I think where this is going to start out is going to be more like a shuttle or metro, so they call it air metro. Then we'll move on to maybe more on demand type of, still some designated routes, but the timing isn't just scheduled, it's more when you need it. There's business models where there's emergency capabilities, where you're saving lives, or search and rescue. Also, people are looking at tourism. Those are very safe routes. There's one in one out of those routes. They're scheduled. And so there's some people looking at, I'm going to make that pilotless as my first business model. So just anything that you would need an automobile for, you're going to be able to see this, get out of traffic get up in the sky.  Yeah, and I think if you go back, especially to like the intro for the Jetsons, if you can look it up somewhere, there's really a flexibility to that notion in the way that airspace looks in there. And that really kind of reflects the dynamic nature that we're trying to enable through our different projects that we're working on right now.  So I understand that Urban Air Mobility is going to leverage the UAS traffic management system as a starting point. I saw on the NASA website, which is one of the Learn More reference links, that there were lots of phases of testing that each built on the previous phase. Jeff, can you tell us about these and how the technologies perform?  Sure, so I guess if we refer to the background here, it kind of reflects a little bit what we've been doing so far. So we've been doing a lot of testing in the UAS graphic management, or UTM project, so far. This image in the background is a snapshot from the testing that we wrapped up in the summer. But that was kind of the end of the long path towards where we have get today with a lot of testing with industry partners and working with both the FA and other organizations. So, the project itself started formally in 2015 at NASA and that kind of, before that though, there's a lot of conversation that kind of lead to where we are today. And the impetus for those early discussions was that all the forecasts, looking at the use and demand for small UAS for commercial applications in particular. The demand was exponential growth over the years and so a lot of companies looking to start using them, leveraging the capabilities for small UAS to do, really a number of different types of use cases. So package deliveries is one that we hear about a lot. But there's also real estate, agriculture, search and rescue,like I mentioned emergency services. So really a whole, a wide swath of possibilities that these types of vehicles enable. And so, we need a system that can help accommodate all these different use cases and business models from different companies. And do that's where kind of UTM came to fruition where the new entrants that wanted access to air space needed the flexibility to be able to access the airspace in an equitable way. And then there are current users, not at the scales that we imagine, but current users of the airspace want to maintain their access, but also have it be done in a safe way. So this is coming in from an aviation domain, so the safety is really key to enabling all of this. And we are trying to carry forward decades of research that we've done at NASA and aeronautics where safety has been at the core of all that, so this is really living on into UTM  You have some slides?  Yes  You going to show us?  Yes, and so why is UTM needed? This basically kind of this demand that I mentioned. And so that kind of fed into being able to accommodate all these use cases, and then being able to allow these new entrants and current users that are operating today. And so UTM is basically like a parallel or complimentary approach to air traffic management. And so today we have a current air traffic control system and National Airspace System that it's very safe. But what we're looking at in UTM doesn't necessarily map to the traditional way that air traffic is controlled or airspace is managed. And so UTM as an ecosystem is going to enable this distributed, automated approach to being able to scale efficiently, equitably, and safely for these new use cases. And so we're working really closely with industry and the FAA. So we're looking at industry to drive the innovation and use their technological prowess, that kind of drive where UTM goes around the commercial aspect of it. But it's really important that the FAA maintains their regulatory and operational authority of the airspace as well. So we have to, as part of this research, understanding kind of both sides and making sure we're walking in lock-step together as we move forward. And so through the development of UTM, we're trying to enable this really large scale kind of, eventually high density types of operations that allow for multiple beyond visual line of sight types of operations. Looking at defining the roles and responsibilities for all the different stakeholders, and defining, through this process, we've defined information architecture. And data exchanges that are needed for this new kind of system that's going to enable these new use cases and operational types. And then what are the performance requirements that are going to be needed to be able to operate in this new environment? So here's a little bit video clip the kind of shows things that are higher conceptual level. So we have the traditional national airspace system, it's very safe. Air traffic controllers are talking to each and everyone of those aircraft. We have general aviation at some of the lower altitudes and uncontrolled airspace. But is still really considered part of the traditional airspace that we normally think of. And then when we start looking at kind of more suburban and different types of environments with different use cases for all these different operations, kind of doing everything. All together, it's going to require a lot of situational awareness, exchanges of data for all the operators to know about each other. And this is really what leverages kind of the research we've done to allow for that exchange of information and management of that traffic. So, here's all those operations operating together all in the same area. And in these kind of protected operation volumes, so we kind of know the intent for where the operators want to go. Their reporting their positions, the UTM ecosystem is monitoring their conformance to their trajectories, and their overall operational plans. Now that was an example of agricultural application. Here we are at more urban types of environments where you need kind of tighter operational volumes to allow that scalability. And then it's really important for all the air space uses to know about the different constraints in the system and airspace classes and airports to be able to avoid those safety critical areas. So that's really important piece for UTM to be able to allow for that situation awareness and exchange of information so that all the operators are able to be on the same page and operate together. And so, the way we've kind of approached the research within UTM was to define four different, what we call technical capability levels or TCLs. And each of these TCLs is kind of built upon the previous one where the risk and complexity for these environments kind of progressed as you will move from like TCL 1 into TCL 4. So TCL1 started back in 2015 and it was kind of part of this crawl, walk, run approach that we've taken. So it was kind of a more simple environment, remote types of applications for rural applications and agriculture or we had industry come out to one of the test sites and do kind of our initial connectivity checks. They flew but we could actually access their information and see how all of that flowed through that architecture at the time. And then we progressively moved through the different TCLs kind of adding more density, more complexity to the types of operations and interactions between the vehicles. And then in TCL4 which we just wrapped up the summer we were looking at high density operations in urban environments. And so we were an actual downtown environments in Reno, Nevada and Corpus Christi, Texas and we were looking at beyond visual line of sight operations in these environments, looking at contingency management, and public safety applications as well. So here's some clips from what we were looking at going into it. So this is a view of the planned operations that we were looking at for the downtown Reno environment. And this is kind of gets at some of the simulation capabilities that we have. So before we go out and test we do a lot of simulations where we can visualize and understand the interactions of the planned operation. So here's a number of operation volumes supporting five different operations downtown. They're all strategically separated and for this testing, we were looking at kind of remote landings, remote launches, all in the presence buildings, downtown environment that has. Impacts on connectivity, communication, and navigation. And then looking at how we can all operate together, but able to access landing spots and do contingency management procedures. And so that was kind of leading into the the testing and then we actually, back in August and July of this year, actually went out to the different sites and started operating with all the partners. So we had a number of industry partners that developed their software and flight crews out there that were flying in the UTM ecosystem. So you could see some of these taking off from rooftops in downtown Nevada. You can see how close they were to buildings. And this was important for us to understand kind of the flight planning process, and the impacts to the ability for communication, navigation impacts. And looking at other areas kind of for data exchange as well as sense and avoid, and these encounters between vehicles. So we wanted to get vehicles in close proximity to each other, have them be able to operate in that close environment. And this really is all kind of facilitated by that architecture that we've developed in UTM so far. And then this was in Corpus Christi and this really gets that, kind of an important, piece for us where we want to understand public safety's role in this and how they can integrate into an airspace that has a lot of other commercial operators. And so here's just another piece from Corpus Christi where we had, again, similar to Reno, vehicles getting close to each other and making sure that we're monitoring. At the same time the UTM system is able to monitor these operations and maintain that level of safety that's that's required. So going forward, the impact of our UTM research is being kind of felt as we were going out from here. So we're really proud that we're looking at fielded systems. UTM did not exist prior to NASA involvement, so this really kind of came from our efforts here at NASA to really enable a new industry. And so you can look at already fielded systems like LAANC is a direct descendant from our NASA UTM research that the FAA is using right now, to enable operations near airports. We're feeding into rulemaking. So the research and results that we're coming up with are feeding directly into these new rules and potential policy decisions that are going to impact areas like remote identification and operational approvals. And then industry guidance is where a lot of what we're doing here, working closely with industry. And so this is going to feed into where they go from here as UTM kind of take shape and becomes really a new industry. And it's going to be standards development as part of that process as well. So we're kind of giving direct in information into these standards bodies and participating in the different groups that are kind of standing up and establishing these new standards. And then there's International Harmonization. So that's another area we're proud of that we kind of started it here. It came from NASA in the US and now it's spreading into other areas in Europe and Asia that are kind of following our suit, the UTM, standing up similar concepts and constructs.  UAS traffic management is really complex when you hear all about all the different aspects of it. What's next for UTM?  So at the project level, this is kind of a close out year for us. So we're kind of wrapping up some of the analysis and reporting. And we're going to be handing over our research transition products to the FFA and then they're going to carry it forward in their series of tests. And so we've focused in UTM on small UAS in the lower altitudes, but that's also, you can consider that as part of a crawl, walk, run approach to a more general paradigm shift in air traffic or air space management. And so, we never meant for it to be limited to only that area for UTM, so the idea is that it can be applied elsewhere. And that's where we are looking at now. How UTM can be leveraged and extended to support urban air mobility, and that's where we're looking at now with UAM and the Grand Challenge as well.  And Star, that brings us to your work for the Grand Challenge for urban air mobility. First of all, why is this called a challenge?  Yes, so we have a background here that shows we're trying to put passenger carrying vehicles now, that have many more automation to them, in these dense urban environments. But the difference is we're integrating with all the rest of the National Airspace there. And so the challenge for us is to kind of build the Grand Challenge as a conduit to build a safety case around the whole system of pilot training, vehicle safety, airspace management. And not only how we take an extension of this UTM, but how do we communicate with the rest of the National Airspace that's out there right now? So besides the picture behind me, on my first slide here, this shows there's lots of different business models for UAM. We'd mentioned some of those at the beginning, but as you can see, some of those operations can get tight. Weather around these buildings can be quite difficult to land in. So there's lots of different aspects of the project we're trying to consider from a system wide perspective. So we coined the term urban air mobility, UAM, maturity levels, just like technology readiness levels, but it's at a system level. So this is showing right now we're at a UML zero, there are no certified vehicles right now. Anybody who did certify a vehicle at this point is just going to abide by the current rules that are in the National Airspace. And so by collecting data early with the Grand Challenge, we're able to start bringing data to the FAA to help them kind of collate and figure out what in the standards needs to change. What are the gaps so that some things will still be able to leverage? Some things will change because these are distributed electric propulsion airplanes. So they're new technologies, they're all fly by wire. They have a lot of automation to take some of the pilot functions away. And so just just the training and certification of those things take some time. But what's really important for the vehicle companies is that the market studies say that if this is going to be a viable industry, where all of us get to pay for a seat on one of these air taxis, then you're going to have to mass produce these. And that means the airspace is going to become very dense, and you're going to have to have vehicles that fly a lot closer to each other in coordinated fashions and something maybe it looks similar to what Jeff showed you. And so as our UMLs, as we do each series of the Grand Challenge, we're trying to identify what the requirements for any kind of rule changing needs to be to get to these higher density, more complex operations, but constantly making sure it's as safe as our National Airspace is right now. So the Grand Challenge will go through to determine requirements at UML4 level, and that timeframe for where we set requirements, this is about 2026. And again, that's not to say we're going to be operating at a UML of 4 in 2026, but we know what needs to get in place to do that. So the Grand Challenge has a lot of things that it's going to affect. We have developmental testing that's going to be this next summer, and that's what we're calling our design of experiments where we're trying to understand the right range requirements. How we need to assess the safety of the vehicles, understand how we're going to do the two way network with piloted vehicles. And let machine to machine communication help you through your flight path. We'll be figuring out some of the challenges with weather and we'll have some weather measurements. We're going to be doing noise measurements, the vehicle's noise is an important piece of getting public acceptance in these vehicles. So right now, you don't see helicopters anymore flying around in urban airspace because they're too loud. So these definitely have to be a lot quieter because they want to be in and around the urban environment. So as as we're doing each step of the Grand Challenge series, the other cool benefit is as we find things that work, our safety cases, that industry brings that works, and then we can help feed that to the FAA, that's great. That's near term benefits, but the things we find gaps in the technologies or capabilities that still need to be developed. Now, we have offer our NASA research projects and they can take some more high-risk, buy down some of that risk, before industry is ready to do that. So the series will go out again four different times. We have contingencies that we're going to look at. These are the same contingencies that just anybody who gets their pilot's license has to understand how to operate. But we break this down and the fact that we're going to have less human functions thinking through these contingencies and more machines thinking through these contingencies. Now I'm not saying like artificial intelligence necessarily right away, but there they'll be scripted, preprogrammed autopilot kind of routes. But how does the decision making happen when you have an air to air problem, or you have a botched landing or you have a missed approach? Those all affect the distribution of the air traffic. So you have machines that are trying to manage that air traffic. You have ATC that has current people they're trying to manage and somehow those two systems have to connect to each other. The other thing we're trying to figure out is what's the reserves for these vehicles? A lot of them are going to be all electric. They have maybe 45 minutes to an hour flight time. Today, you have to have 20 minutes of reserves and so they don't want to have 20 minutes reserves. So we're trying to figure out, what do we fit in their necessary payload of positive energy versus a contingency comes up and maybe they gotta go at least two miles or something like that. So we're breaking down the airspace, but we're looking a lot about the dynamics of air traffic and performance the vehicle at the terminal area. So there's calculations behind every piece of the route that we're flying. I never realized that airspace is broken down into trigonometry and specific things. But they're all based on the performance of the vehicle. And so right now, they're based on either fixed wing vehicles or helicopters in these terminal areas or the transport airplanes. And the performance of these vehicles, although they're landing vertically, they really want to fly straight and level like a fixed wing airplane. So we're still trying to figure out how the performance is going to change in the vehicles. So we've been putting together animations that as we can explain this into our teams, there's going to be this flight planning that happens with the machines. They're going to have to show that they can fly different kinds of crosswinds. We also have some research for looking at simple vehicle operations, which is how do we pull away? Automate some of these pilot functions and make it very easy to fly these airplanes like you would only need a driver's license to fly them. So this is actually real cockpit flight simulator out at NASA Ames. And then we're trying to show you back and forth between as we're flying the Grand Challenge, the pilots will be flying in a simulated urban environment. We'll pick whichever kind of airspace use case that our participants want to see, but we'll simulate that around the desert this first time just to figure out the experiment. And then the pilot's cues, they'll have cues that are coming from machines. We'll also have normal voice commands because we will be entering the national airspace right away. But flight path changes, approach and landings. In a helicopter route there's a lot of times you have to hold and wait for traffic because you're the lowest priority in routing people because you can actually stop and hover. But these vehicles certainly don't want to do that. And stopping and hovering in these vehicles is like exponential drain on their battery. And infrastructure is a big piece of what we're trying to figure out, so how well can they control that vehicle? How large do the heliports have to be? It's going to be different than helicopters because it's defined by your rotor blade diameter and a lot of these are winged with little propellers. So infrastructure again, pilot workload, what do we need to understand? What's interesting is in these flight simulators, if you actually put somebody in there that is a pilot it's actually harder for them to land this. We had one where our mechanics come in and fly it. And he's never flown an airplane and he landed way better than anybody else. [LAUGH] So it's interesting, it's almost like you're trying to find that gaming environment, how would they fly an airplane and translating that into here. There's other research that NASA is working on to automate those pilot functions, not just from how easy it is to control it. But like some of the outer loop decision making of contingencies that come up and what alternative solutions. And how do I make a decision on the thing that costs the most damage versus the next thing that costs the least amount of damage. And so lot of very interesting research there. And so the research not only will fill some of our research and automation, more research, and we have an air traffic management research project. We'll probably find some gaps in some of the technologies on the vehicle as far as reliability, dependability. So we can feed that back to those research projects. And obviously we've been working with the FAs as a very close partner in this with us. We've been working with them to formulate the Grand Challenge for the last year. They've been helping us determine what some of those equations are and measurements that we have to take. And so we have both, we have air certification, we have flight standards, and we have ATO and underneath all of those are multiple lines of business. So right now we're breaking down these scenarios and scripting them out. And then we'll have, with the Grand Challenge just officially started October 10th, when our public announcement came out. And so it we're waiting for applicants does to sign up with us by the end of December. And then we'll start tailoring what they need for the Grand Challenge, so we're really excited.  For those of us who spend a lot of time on the road, we don't do as much contingency planning as you're talking about. And I know that's a big part of pilots that fly in the national airspace. It's really interesting how much challenge that adds to the whole system to be able to blend both of those aspects.  Right, and right now, I mean the rules for unmanned vehicles is they have preprogrammed contingency. So if they know a route is going to be 20 miles, they know every spot that they can possibly land on that route. And it's just a matter of them knowing which one they're the closest to and then that program will go back in. Or if they lose communication with ground, they know that they go in a loiter pattern, wait til they get a signal again. Otherwise, they just know they're going to go back where they started and land. So you'll see those safety nets always in this stuff. But I mean as automation like in 20 years starts getting smarter and we do get to leverage the artificial intelligence Be more dynamic decision making probably.  So, for our audience, this is a final reminder to submit your questions using the chat feature in your webpage. And please include your first name, your major and your university. So while we're waiting for those to come in, could you tell us more about your career journey? Jeff, let's start with you.  Okay, so, well actually when I was in graduate school is when I started an internship at NASA Ames. And so I got into the research lab where I'm in now, the air space operations laboratory, which has a great people in there and I started as an intern. kind of go into class at night and then kind of being part of the lab during the day participating in the research that we did back then. And after I finished my thesis at school, I was able to actually leverage one of the research projects to use as part of my thesis which was very fortunate and exciting to work on to kind of bring the two Education and work together. After I finished that, I got hired on as a contractor through San Jose State and was a contractor for a number of years as one of the researchers in the lab. And then eventually converted over to being a civil servant, so kind of got to see the different aspects of life at NASA and all the different players, the people in the different roles are really important, and we're all really part of one nice good team together.  And Star, I think your path was a little bit different. What about your career journey?  Yeah, it's hard to talk about a career journey with not including your internship right there. Because really that defines that career path, I mean, I think it's so important to get involved those internships. So that you really do pick that thing that you're passionate about working on-  Your first internship was when you were-  My first internship was when I was 17-  High school?  In high school, yeah. And so they picked one student from every high school in the Antelope Valley where I lived and they said you get to work six weeks as an engineering intern with,. It's like he walked into the right stuff movie, right test pilots walking around, they're movie stars, and you have SR-71s and you have F-18s, and F-16s, and X-31. I mean, all the latest and greatest things that most people in the world just don't even know what's happening out there. And it was just like love at first sight. So I knew right then I was going to be a mechanical engineer, so I already mentioned the colleges I went to. But when I started my career, actually started in an area that wasn't necessarily mechanical engineering because that's just the position that they had, and it was structural dynamics. So, I did a lot of on the job training and learning which I really realized that school is kind of there to help you learn how to solve problems and know what reference material you need to go to. But really everything's on the job, that's very nonlinear in the world of aerodynamics and how everything works. So, I went back then, that's when I went back to my masters but I did that structural dynamics for 10 years. And then I was the branch chief for the aerostructures branch which my group was in. And then after I did the branch chief job, then I went in to be like the chief engineer of all of our aeronautics research at the center, which meant I was trying to figure out, what is the strategy for the center and how do we engage into the aero mission directorate? So I did that for a while which meant working with all the technical people that had different ideas about well, this electric propulsion per se. That was really my biggest motivation was getting us to start doing electric propulsion and then, I was a deputy director of research. And it's hard to say those but then now, I'm doing this UAM Grand Challenge. So it was like this great, starting from the beginning of this industry to now helping enable like a huge ecosystem that centers industry.  Well, and that was the next thing I was going to ask. It's obvious you both love what you do. So, what one thing do you love about what you do for these students out here?  You can go ahead.  So I think yeah, being able to dissipate in UTM as it's kind of in the very early days, and really seeing it kind of come through to its fruition has been really exciting thing for me and feeling of accomplishment of being able to be engaged in that. And kind of see where it's going from here and really, having a stake in where it goes from here. So we've really enabled a new industry and it has a tremendous potential. Not only within that scope within itself, but beyond that like I mentioned before, just internationally and other types of aerospace and vehicles. And so it's really exciting to be a part of it, something I can point to.  And Star?  Yeah, it's same thing, at NASA, they're starting stuff that this Ground Zero, but but they don't all work out, right? I mean, our job is to do high risk research and by down risk for industry. But when you do get to work on a project that you were there, the advocate or the brain child beginning and then you actually see it grow into a billion dollar industry. I started working with the other centers of advocating electric airplanes and we were able to do some experiments very fast with some all businesses to show there's a validation to the research. And then, we're able to pitch to headquarters that we should do X-57, which is NASA's first electric airplane. And so that's just been going on and I mean, that's just a piece of now this urban air mobility. They're helping with certification of the components of the airplane. And now, we're working to develop the aerospace and how those are interacting at National Aerospace. So, it's just amazing to have this opportunity.  You love everything about it.  Everything, everything about it.  So, what advice then would you give today's aspiring engineers, technologists, programmers, designers, all of the different disciplines that are involved?  I think that's, to kind of keep an open mind to your education and your potential paths outside of where you are now. So, we've discussed so far there's really so many different pieces to these new systems and these new vehicles and it's going to take very kind of different different skillset, different mindset. And I think it's going to just take people coming from any background is going to apply to these new concept. So whether it's traditional stem or even if it's graphic design, we have to be able to communicate these new concepts out to the public. It's pretty technical, but now these have societal impacts. And so, and drawing on multiple disciplines and it's not limiting yourself to one particular path but kind of keeping it open for yourself and taking every opportunity you have to learn something new.  What about you, Star, what advice would you give?  Yeah, I think everything is so multidisciplinary in this new technology area. So we've made the performance of individual technologies. We've advanced in as far as we can and to make any more advances in aircraft. Right now, we're looking at multidisciplinary. So, it was very clear to me in these last five years, with a couple of different projects. We had controlled flexible structures, and now we have X-57. But the disciplined engineers need to be able to talk each other's language to design an airplane now. And so, you can't just know structures and you can't just know controls. Or you can't just know electrical engineering because the aircraft design guys need to be able to speak electrical engineering and vice versa with you. So, really having more of a breath and being bilingual or trilingual now as you're doing your studies, I think would be the greatest benefit to where we are in aviation right now. Yeah trilingual, I like that. I'll have to remember that for my classes. How were your internship experiences important to you? And have you had any interns that you worked with?  Yes. Like I mentioned, I started as an intern. That was an important formative period for me is learning how this research is done, what the expectations are and it was interesting kind of challenging. Because before that I was in the navy, kind of coming from that mindset into a research environment was quite a change for me. That internship gave me that sort of gentle introduction where I had a lot of great mentors that followed me through the process, and then I've tried to carry that on today with interns that we get in the summer. We also have interns kind of throughout the year as well, I'm trying to kind of carry forward that experience that I have.  For me, I think interning is really important, because it lets you try out different kinds of areas of engineering. I did aerodynamics, and I did controls, and I did integrated systems. And then I was a flight test engineer. I actually got the fly in an F-18, two times. Which was probably a highlight of my career, and now you know when you're graduating, this is the special tier area that really excites me, or I want to get into, and having that knowledge.  All right now we're going to go to our questions, that have come in online. And I have a list here. The first one I've got is from Markian, his Major or her Major is aerospace engineering from the University of Alabama. And this question is, how will the system change? Is the technology used to detect and track these vehicles evolves?  Yeah I think well, throughout the evolution of UTM, as we've been doing the research we've kind of settled in on an architecture, that's kind of been pretty stable for the last few years of the research. And I don't know how much the system itself will change like the fundamental pieces of it, but the idea is that this architecture and this ecosystem that we've developed so far, is going to be extendable and scalable to incorporate new types of services. Other systems that'll kind of feed into the overall ecosystem, and ability for us to scale to the operations that are needed. And I'm not sure how much it'll change, but we've tried to set it up in a way that it can adapt to and accommodate any changes, and innovations that come afterwards. They'll be changes but I think the fundamental pieces will probably, hopefully stay the same.  I see, Star I think you mentioned something related to this before from Christopher, who's majoring in Biosystems Engineering at the University of Kentucky. How will you manage flight plans with variable weather?  Rght now all flight plans are done through forecasting. For the initial market for these vehicles are going to be a short distance. Forecasting what's going to happen 15 minutes from now probably isn't so hard, but I think we will need to get to real 4D trajectories with real-time weather sensors. We have for the grand challenge, we have an array of weather sensors, and we're trying to figure out what is the right way to communicate a four-dimensional space of weather. For how you need to land on the vertipad, for those flight safety kind of things. And then you can update your schedule through the route. A 15-minute route's probably not going to be off too much. And hopefully they're not as affected by winds, as the smalls can actually push them around, and change our flight plans but it is definitely one of the pieces that is part of the project.  In addition to engineers and all the other pieces that we think about communications, there's also meteorology and all kinds of other dimensions of this for the future. Hansa, who's majoring in aerospace from the George institute of technology says, what's the single major challenge in developing new FA regulations for these mobility systems?  What's the challenge as well. I mean,  FA regulations.  Right, we had, there's plenty of historical data of people developing new like Honda jet, you came up a with a new jet and that was a long time to do the research. And then you get done with the research, and then you make sure you're operational. Now you got to collect a lot of empirical data for the FA. We all know what the process takes, and we know how long that process takes and I can't imagine why something would change, and how fast we can do this. I think it's going to be a little bit harder, because these have a lot of new technologies on them, that don't have a lot of empirical data behind them for reliability. But, if there's as many as we think they're going to be like right now there's 200 designs on paper, and people are at different phases of building those airplanes. And we're going to be able to collect a lot of data at a lot of time. We're not trying to change the national aerospace, but we're trying to add to it safely. But even making changes like that, that can be a ten-year period, I would see doing some low-dense operations in urban environments definitely past 10 years. Where somebody's paying for a seat in that airplane, but you'll see these airplanes flying around earlier than that as they're getting their operational experience. Yeah.  I think that she said the certification process for these are new types of vehicles, that have gone before I knew craft new aircraft new components in there. How to integrate into this Airspace System that's being developed as well, a lot of kind of challenges up ahead. But I think like you mentioned before, FA been very closely aligned with us, are working with us all throughout each of these projects right now. And it's a good sign that we're kind of converging and marching towards the same goal at the end of this.  Kayla, who's majoring in aerospace engineering from the University of Alabama says, would there be a noise threshold that would be part of implementing the urban Air Mobility in the urban airspace?  Of course, I mean right now, there's curfews for airplanes around current airports and they have regulations, what their noise level can be. What's interesting about this, it's not that we can just go in and say, well, if these airplanes have this noise, then you're fine, you can have that. You should just be able to meet that noise, but it's the perception of that noise is going to be different because it's, 12 spinning propellers. And although the dB level can be lower for those kinds of vehicles, the frequency is higher, there becomes maybe like an annoyance. If you can, the previous series this web and I, they talked a lot about noise obviously, but there would have to be a similar thing where you do all of these community kind of outreaches as part of the research of what you're doing. And do surveys and make sure that you can understand how the noise changes, or you can point the noise away from a community versus busy freeway or something, if you can start directionalizing the noise. There's definitely research being done like that.  There's the noise and the perception of the noise, that both have to be dealt with.  Right.  It's actually within TCL 4, for when we were doing that testing, we had a number of human factors researcher that were deployed out to the test sites, to do this kind of community engagement and do surveys with the public. Start getting some of these questions as, what is the public perception of these, these were visual noise versus aural noise, and that kind of feeds into eventually what our potential thresholds and Where they might be and which environments you need them in.  Yeah, it gets back to another discipline, human factors, right? And then the study of humans which is really complicated. [LAUGH]  So Linda now, is in physics and astronomy in Minnesota State University, Moorhead and it says, we're wondering how the got into elastics in her studies and what led you to this field, so I guess that's for you Star.  Yeah, well, so this gets back to usually, I'll tell the interns that, maybe you don't want to just jump into your masters until you find out what job you're actually getting to get. So although I had interned at NASA for seven summers in a row and thought I could kind of pick my job. Well, it wasn't that easy. There was so many slots and so many branches. So, they actually said, well, if you want to work here full time, you're going to work in structural dynamics and we study Aeroelasticity here and I hadn't even taken vibrations in college. So, it was a little overwhelming, but again, a lot of on the job training, then I thought, hey, this is a good area to go back and get my masters in. So I just understand the fundamental theory. But, it was so difficult, they call it a Black Art, you can't actually calculate everything about it because there's a lot of non linearities in it. And so, there is some gut feel to what you do in Aeroelasticity. And that was great because usually if you're in a review, nobody knew how to you, whether you know what you're talking about or not, because it's a Black Art. [LAUGH] But yeah, I really enjoyed it. I mean, I'm glad I ended up there, everything happens for a reason  Matt is majoring in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at West Virginia University. And he says, who's the target customer for urban air mobility?  Well, if you're going to, so the target customer is everybody. It's supposed to be the people that can afford just to get an Uber, are the same people that can afford this. They at the starting costs that right now, there's 2 to $3 billion being invested into this field right now and it's all small businesses being funded by venture capitalists. And so, everybody sees there's a market in this for the masses and 2 to $3 billion a year should say something about that. As anything starts, the first time electric cars came out, they were pretty expensive when they first came out. And now, I lost count how many Tesla's I see on the freeway, then they got the cost down and understand how to develop the technologies faster and cheaper, but safe, right? So, yeah, it is for everybody.  It's not only for passengers, this new vehicles can do larger transport operations as well. So, it's not only for people going from one place to another but it's also the transfer of goods and these public safety use cases as well. So-  Yeah, you mentioned emergency response before.  Right.  So that's another part of it. I've got AJ here, a major in Aviation Management from San Jose State University. And it says one of the challenges I see is public acceptance. How do you get the public to accept the noise and traffic from these vehicles? And with regards to urban air mobility, UAM, how do you get people to sit in a vehicle that is piloted by someone who's not as experienced as a commercial pilot?  I'll start off and just kind of dovetail off of what I was mentioning before, where we've sent people out to kind of engage with the public to start understanding where their concerns are. And where some of these issues are with noise and privacy and those types of concerns. We also engage, have people come into our lab as well and kind of walk through use cases with them to get at these similar concerns. So, looking at a system that's transparent, that gives them the information they need about what's going on outside of your house or downtown. So, it's really important for us to engage with the public as much as possible, to start getting at these acceptance issues. And seeing where, how those, that feedback and those decisions can guide where we go with UTM and UAM.  So, this question I asked, actually I ask everybody when I'm in a public forum and I said, actually, I just say would you get in a driverless car? I just started there, I don't even start with the airplane one. And it's different the perspectives it's, like well, I look at the data that's done by a government entity, that says, here's the safety record of these vehicles. So every time a car is built, it has a safety record and you can see cars moving up and down those stacks. And so, when there's data behind the safety of it, then why wouldn't you trust it? Another person said, well, I would be, I'd feel better if we started out, in the country doing it because there isn't as many unpredictable things that happen, maybe out there. And then another person said, well, I don't know how you're going to convince me that some reason I can hack into these things. But cyber security is another big research effort that's in this and we have obviously lots of cyber security experience working with the Department of Defense. And our job is going to start to develop these working groups, where we could bring this community that hasn't had to be concerned with cyber security on the vehicle or the network security, the networks. And it's going to be Internet of Things connectivity and educate everybody that how important that is and how to do it. It's not that we don't know how to do it, we just have to tell a new community how to do it.  So I've got Ethan, whose major's physics from Minnesota State University at Morehead. We're wondering why drones have four or more rotors but commercial craft like helicopters have less like two, what are the advantages and disadvantages of more rotors or less?  It gives the vehicle more flexibility of movement and so the types of operations that these companies are trying to go forward with, using these small UAS. That's what's going to be needed is, that kind of flexibility and dynamic nature to how these vehicles can be controlled. So they need to be very accurate and kind of turn on a dime, be able to kind of navigate these urban environments. And so having more rotors in the types of configurations that we have and that we're seeing with these vehicles that we participate with, they really get towards enabling the types of use cases that a lot of these companies want.  I see. So, I've got Ryan, whose major is Aerospace Engineering from the Ohio State University, are there further plans to continue to roll out more, you said, LAANC like services or will only private industry be driving it? Services like this go a long way towards introducing the public to the UTM concept.  Yeah, so, like I was mentioning before, so LAANC is this system right now, it stands for Low Altitude Authorization and Notification Capability. So, it's a service that allows operators that want to fly vehicle close to an airport, where before it needed to go through a lengthy paper process and kind of negotiate with the facility that you want to operate near. But now you have the service, LAANC, that streamlines that whole thing. So, the operator-  It's developed by the FAA, so-  Right.  Right, but it came from NASA. So, NASA is part of our initial architecture and kind of a key piece of it is this UAS server supplier. Which is going to be that piece that supports all the operators and their operations. And so, that's really like the extension of where LAANC is and USS are going to be the thing that supports all the communication between all the air space users and then information exchange is facilitated by the US. And so, this is really the next step for this kind of system, the ecosystem to really take shape is through That piece, so I didn't consider that a Lance-like capability, although. We think USS came first and then Lance came or is a descendant of what we've done so far.  So I've got another one from him at Georgia Tech. How do these urban drones perform in the case of loss of GPS? You have terrain identification systems for navigation, or do you have to have terrain identification systems?  So-  What would you do in UTM?  Yeah, so for UTM, that was one of the contentious cases that we were looking at, starting back in, T cell two, three and really into T cell four where we're in this urban environment. And you're in a more, you're more likely to run into situations where you might lose navigation in the kind of urban environment. We have buildings and other kind of impacts to communication and navigation. And so, one of the things we're looking at is how do you have redundant systems that can kind of compensate for when you lose your navigation, your initial primary navigation feed? Also looking at contingency procedures, so how do you plan to recover safely in this type of environment? And this gets kind of what we're looking at even across those TCLs where the ideas in order to even access kind of an urban type of environment. You may have to provide extra equipage, and capabilities. And be able to demonstrate to get an authorization to operate in that type of environment. You have to show that your vehicle and your capabilities are commensurate with the complexity of that type of environment. Which includes loss of GPS, and lost comms, and other cases as well.  And other pieces, and I have a question here from Qubit in biomedical engineering, who is actually writing in from India from the National Institute of Technology Raipur in India. How do you quantify the perception of aviation noise from a human subject? Are there any applications of artificial intelligence in the field of aero-acoustics?  So we have been talking to some people that have a military background of how they come up with dynamic routing. And change it just slightly so you're not wearing out the carpet in the main walkway of the house, right? So each time you do a flight plan it's not always right on the same spot. But there are tweaking variabilities of who you affect, so it's kind of of a scattering. It's one idea, so you could certainly use artificial intelligence for something like that. But there is that hole where you're going to point it. So if you had a heat map of the city, density populations. Then you should be able to be reading that and pointing noise, if however you do that with torque, of colors, or people have different ideas. It's just like banking or something. But yeah, definitely that can play a role.  Well, that's all the questions that we have. But I want to thank you, Starr and Jeff for your work. Your insight and especially for your advice to all the students joining us this evening. Before we sign off, I do want to share some key resources and opportunities with our audience. This webinar is being recorded and it'll be available on the series website. There is a slide where you can learn more, and so be sure to visit this section of the website. You'll find technical papers that are subject matter experts recommended. And information on a wide range of students and faculty opportunities through NASA and the Space Grant Program. The Connect with Space Grant slide, this next one has a link that for you to connect with the NASA Space Grant Program in your state. So that you can learn more about scholarships, fellowships, internships, the student flight and design programs. Faculty research, curriculum projects, pre-college enrichment programs for our students and teachers. Space grants are a key link to NASA in each state. So do explore the website and connect with your program and your state, the District of Columbia or Puerto Rico. NASA offers paid internships at the agency's ten centers through the NASA Internships and Fellowships Program, as well as fellowships for graduate students. We heard about those tonight. The program website offers more information on these programs and how to apply. NASA's internships and fellowships are open to US citizens. And NASA Aeronautics offers a special opportunity called the University Leadership Initiative. It's different from other research grants because they fund teams led by universities that get to propose what they want to research. After two rounds of awards, NASA is engaged with 34 universities so far. The key is that the universities lead as long as the topic is related to NASA's work. So far, so for solicitations, sorry. So far, solicitations go out annually via Inspire, NASA's online system. On Wednesday, November 6th, we're going to close out this series this year with a look at electrified aircraft. Tackling the challenges of alternative propulsion, please join us. The host next time is going to be Steve Ruffin. He's the director of the Georgia Space Grant Consortium, and a professor and Associate Chair of Aerospace Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. So on behalf of the NASA Space Grant Program, and NASA Aeronautics, thank you for joining us tonight. [MUSIC] 