 Hey, Dan, funny finding you here. Hey Roy, where else would I be? I'm here with Dan Williams, director of ADAS and Autonomy. Dan, first, can you tell us what is ADAS? ADAS is Advanced Driver Assistance Systems. It's kind of the precursor to autonomous driving. We hear so much about autonomous driving. What does that mean for the commercial vehicle market? Why is it so important to commercial vehicles in a way that's different than you might find in passenger cars? That's a great question. I mean, when you think of autonomous driving you still have the driver there, that car's job is to carry that driver from one place to another, so you make it maybe easier for the driver, safer for the driver, but with commercial vehicles we've got an even better value proposition for autonomy. Through autonomy we can really create value rather than just convenience as you would have in the passenger car. What are some of the ways that ZF is applying autonomy and ADAS systems to get to that level of, I believe we refer to it as level four, full autonomous? Well, we're taking kind of a stepping stone approach where, you know, you see sort of the basics for this coming in our production really as we speak. We've got camera and radar now that are sort of the eyes and the ears, the sensors for autonomy. We've got that out in production now and commercial vehicles running up and down the road. Soon next year we'll have electronically controlled steering, that'll be sort of one of the actuators that allows it to happen. And right after that we can marry the camera input to the electronically controlled steering to do lane keeping and from there it's just kind of a short step to laterally controlling the vehicle in an autonomous mode, and then we have the longitudinal mode where we can do the same thing with brakes. A lot of exciting things going on at ZF. It's very exciting. I hope everybody keeps their eyes on ZF and pays attention to what we're doing in ADAS. Thanks for your time, Dan. Glad to find you here in my trailer. Drop in anytime. Okay, absolutely. Alright. 