 Whether it's very large plane or a small aircraft like Airspeeder, it's a lot of work and a lot of   planning. Getting anything in the air, especially with someone in it, is really challenging and so   there's a lot of different parts that all have  to go together and click and click perfectly   I'm pretty pedantic. It's probably the  best word for it and I like to keep things   ordered, tidy, on the straight and narrow whether it's at work or at home which will probably   be challenging for some of my colleagues. It's much easier instead of making one to make six   and it should mean making the sixth one it  took you half the time it took you to  make the first one, so that's what we're going to do in that period. You have to be that detailed.  You have to be that organised and thorough because that's what gets it done and gets it done safely   We're now in a period we're analysing a lot of  results and with that there's a re-engineering   effort so we're tweaking things. We're always  looking to improve and a lot of that data is   what's going to provide the background for the MkX which'll be our first manned prototype Harry and Peter are two of our junior engineers. They've been working for the last few weeks and   improving our telemetry system. The next step and the obvious step is data. In high   performance sport, data drives the progress of that technology with the Mk3 program just getting   an initial telemetry system but what we're really aiming for is a full sensor suite so that's   what we want to get to every aspect of  the Speeder be structural, electronic performance,   everything we want to be able to monitor it and review it in detail later. In a practical sense   we're looking at measuring data from the motors, the ESCs, the battery management system and the   flight controller and storing that data not only onboard the system but we're going to transfer it   down to a ground control station where we can view the data in real time. One of the key things that   data helps with is that it allows you to almost see into the future. Certain components can have telltale signs when something's about to fail based on its behaviour and that's a really   crucial thing to have in operation. That's why  it's important to have a partner like Acronis   on board so we can store and protect that  data. Being able to store it in a safe and secure   manner ensures that we have it for later review and that we can make improvements down the track Our workshop mechanic Aaron who's very  experienced with a variety of production   techniques, he's working on our molds that are used to produce the skins that you can   see behind me on this vehicle. When we get into January we're actually going to be producing   a lot of Speeders and to do that we need to have a really robust and effective production system One of the great things about the Airspeeder  and certainly something that drew me when I was looking at joining the company was  the aesthetics and the beauty of the shape and so   we're making sure that we've got a system  that produces that quality and that high level   of industrial manufacturing that is required  for something that's not only a high performance   vehicle but something that's aesthetically  beautiful. It's getting close to Christmas and   the end of the year and we're really pushing hard so that when we get into next year and we're   all back at work after the new year that we can hit the ground running. 