 This is the Lightyear One, an all-electric luxury car that, according to its creators, can drive almost 500 miles on a single charge. Compare that to the average electric car that gets around 190 miles, and even Tesla's top Model S that manages an impressive 370. So how is 500 miles possible? It's because of these. The Lightyear One is powered by the sun using 54 square feet of solar panels covering the roof and hood. And Lightyear's 29-year-old CEO thinks his car can change the electric-car market. While the Lightyear One is first and foremost a plug-in electric vehicle that can fast-charge up to 354 miles worth of energy within an hour, its self-charging capability could find certain owners rarely even needing to plug their car in. The sun can add up to an additional 7 1/2 miles each hour to the vehicle's total range. In ideal conditions, its solar panels can generate over 12,000 miles worth of energy in a year. The car is set to hit production lines in 2021 and is available for preorder now. The One's manufacturer, Dutch startup company Lightyear, was founded in 2016 by former members of a team of engineering students whose solar-powered vehicles won the Bridgestone World Solar Challenge race in 2013, 2015, and 2017. We asked the company's ambitious CEO, Lex Hoefsloot, to answer this question for us: Why solar power? According to the company, the Lightyear One's battery alone is capable of up to 450 miles of driving range. On a sunny day, those solar panels will net you an additional 35 to 47 miles. Even faced with zero sunlight, heavy winds, and below-freezing temperatures that require the heating on the entire time, Lightyear still guarantees around 250 miles of range. But while the Lightyear One's maximum driving range far surpasses that of even Tesla's top model, the car's four electric motors definitely won't keep up with a Model S. However, Lex says the car was never built to be a speed demon, trading fast acceleration time for faster road trips. Although Lightyear's efforts toward renewable energy are admirable, the general public has still been hesitant to adopt basic electric vehicles. Where in the car market do solar-powered cars even fit? Lightyear is taking preorders now for the first 500 cars for a reservation price of about $135,000. When the car finally hits Netherland production lines in 2021, the price is expected to start at about $170,000. Despite the expensive cost, Lex isn't worried, as the price of solar technology continues to drop, which should eventually allow Lightyear to launch cheaper models. 