 Welcome, everybody - in front of Volocopter's hangar. Volocopter makes the dream of electrical flights in cities come true and today I have exciting news for you. For the first time we'll show the full-scale VoloCity  - our commercial product that will go live within the next 2-3 years. Come, let's check it out! So let me give you some context to the VoloCity. The VoloCity will be the first commercially licensed product, based on requirements set by the European Aviation Safety Authority, the EASA. And the cool thing is: It's very quiet, it's comfortable, and very safe.  We'll come to that point, later. In the beginning we will operate with a piloted version  flying people to their destination Obviously over here we have an autonomous version. You can see that with the cameras that will detect obstacles when flying. Come and check out some other key features of it. As promised, let's talk about safety. The most visible component of our safety system are our rotors and motors. We have 18 of them, so if we lose 1 or 2, it doesn't matter. We can still safely continue our flight. And this redundancy continues in all flight critical systems. For example also the battery compartment - which I will show you for the very first time, so be excited! We have 9 battery packs and even if we lose 1 or 2 battery packs,  we can still continue our flight. Isn't that great? And now let's see what the other functions and features bring of the VoloCity. So we talked about safety. What about comfort? You're arriving at the airport and you have your hand luggage with you.  What to do now when you access the VoloCity? And also for that we have a solution. Here you see our luggage compartment. Simple to open. You put in your luggage. You have a lot of space in there. Easy! And now I'm very excited. Let's take a seat in the VoloCity. Wow! It's so easy to access. I can stretch my legs. And it just feels comfortable. Come! Take a seat, too, and we'll talk about the interior. And finally check out our in flight entertainment system  where you can access simply information about the flight map, so you know from which point you're coming from and where you're going, the points of interest data or simply access some news  about Volocopter or the general public. And with that I am now taking in the breathtaking view out of the Volocopter, and I say thank you to all of you listening to this virtual unveiling of the VoloCity. Thanks a lot! 