 Hello guys and welcome back to the PD Top channel. Today in this video, I want to show you the 10 Craziest Future Concept Cars in the world So, let's get started! Mercedes-Benz Vision AVTR Mercedes-Benz Vision AVTR is a concept car by Mercedes-Benz inspired by the 2009 movie Avatar by James Cameron. The Vision AVTR doesn't have a conventional steering wheel. The vehicle comes multifunctional control element in the center console. The entire rear end of the AVTR is covered in 33 discrete scales, so-called "bionic flaps" used to communicate with people outside the car. The Vision AVTR concept's 110 kWh battery pack uses graphene-based organic cell chemistry, which is completely free of rare earth metals. Mercedes says the Vision AVTR produces 470 hp and offers an estimated driving range of up to 435 miles. Lambo V12 Vision Gran Turismo The Lamborghini Lambo V12 Vision Gran Turismo is a Concept car made by Lamborghini for the Vision Gran Turismo project. The concept utilizes the same V-12 hybrid powertrain that powers the Lamborghini Sián: a 6.5-liter V-12 paired with a single supercapacitor that produces around 774 hp. The car boasts excellent aerodynamics, evidenced by the large rear wing, and features an open-wheel design to maximize its identity as a pure driving machine. The car is created to provide the ultimate virtual car for young fans and gamers, who are ultra-enthusiastic about Lamborghini and its futuristic aspirations. Renault Morphoz The Renault Morphoz is an electric concept car built by Renault which was presented in March 2020. Renault says the Morphoz is meant to showcase the modular capacity of the CMF-EV platform, which can accept different sizes of battery depending on the intended use. The car has level three driving autonomy and a smart system powered by artificial intelligence (AI) that enables the vehicle to recognize its driver on approach. The Morphoz’s platform can stretch, increasing the body length from 4.4m to 4.8m. This additional platform ‘piece’ also contains a 50kWh battery pack, taking system output to 90kWh and roughly doubling its range to 700km. BMW Vision M Next Debuting at BMW's NextGen conference in Munich, the Vision M Next Concept shares a lot of its styling details with the i8. Its design is a cross between the BMW i8 and the M1 Hommage. Power for the M Next Concept comes courtesy of a four-cylinder gasoline-electric hybrid powertrain producing a total output of 600 hp. All that power gives it a blistering zero to 62 mph time of 3.0 seconds, and a top speed of 186 mph. The battery has a range of about 100 km in pure electric mode. Mercedes-Benz EQ Silver Arrow The Vision EQ Silver Arrows Concept is an absolute work of art. Its aerodynamic shape takes inspiration from the 1937 W125. The whole body of the EQ Silver Arrows is as smooth as a baby’s bottom, the product of top-caliber aerodynamic carbon fiber engineering. Metallic covers hide part of the massive 26-inch wheels that themselves are standout items with a staggering 168 spokes on each wheel. The Silver Arrow has been conceived to run a pure electric drivetrain developing up to 738 hp. Electrical energy is provided by an 80kWh battery that gives the single seater a theoretical range of up to 249 miles. Citroen 19_19 Concept The Citroën 19_19 Concept is a futuristic electric concept car developed by the French manufacturer Citroën presented on the occasion of its centenary. The car's buggy design is partly due to its donk-worthy 30-inch wheels and tires developed by Goodyear. The headlights are LED bars that form a front wing and integrate Citroen's double chevron logo. It features a dual-motor electric drive system making 456 hp and 590 lb-ft of torque. Power is supplied via a 100kWh battery pack that can propel the car for up to 497 miles on the WLTP test cycle. Lamborghini Terzo Millennio The Lamborghini Terzo Millennio is a futuristic electric concept car introduced by Italian automobile manufacturer Lamborghini and developed in collaboration with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The car still inherits the modern Lamborghini design, with the Y-shaped headlights and taillights, and the triangular front trunk and rear engine bay. The car Terzo Millennio high-capacity supercapacitors in lieu of batteries, due to their more rapid storage and discharge of energy. Each wheel, the rims of which glow orange, contains an electric motor so that the amount of torque can be controlled individually, making the car's stability as good as a modern Formula One car. Bentley EXP 100 GT To celebrate its 100th birthday, Bentley created this striking all-electric concept. The EXP 100 GT concept has an imposing look. The massive mesh grille (made up of 6,000 LED bulbs), separated by a slim piece of copper, gives the front fascia an unmistakable expression. At the rear, noteworthy touches include LED brake lights, augmented with 3D OLED screens, which can add animated graphics to help the car stand out. It uses four motors that produce 1,106 lb-ft of torque and 1,400 hp, enough for acceleration to 62 mph in 2.5 seconds and a 186mph top speed. DS X E-Tense concept The X E-Tense, DS’s vision of what motoring could look like in 2035, is a three-seat machine based on a DS Formula E single-seater designed to offer two contrasting experiences. The car has two different engines, one for racetracks and the other for road use. for road use, peak power stands at 540 hp, a figure that rises to 1,360 hp in ‘circuit’ mode. Rolls Royce Vision 103EX “Vision Next 100” As part of BMW’s 100th birthday celebration, the German luxury automaker has been unveiling a series of Rolls-Royce futuristic concept cars it calls its “Vision Next 100 Cars” cars. The car was designed as Rolls-Royce's first autonomous electric vehicle, a coupe-styled car with dramatic looks and an approach to body-style not often seen in the industry. Being a concept, not many details of what is supposed to be powering it are known, apart from the fact that its drivetrain is electric. Rolls-Royce has announced no plans to put the 103EX into production in the years since its unveiling. 