 [MUSIC]  Hey, everyone, I'm Avi, a Product Manager on the Microsoft Edge Team where I'm focused on making Microsoft Edge the best browser for business. I work on ensuring that your users have a great authenticated experience and can enjoy personalized authenticated content that helps make them more productive in all of their contexts. Today, I'm going to be talking to you about why your user should sign in to Microsoft Edge, how do they get signed in, and how you can ensure that everyone in your organization is signed in to enjoy the personalized authenticated features that we have created for you. We'll also talk about how to leverage Microsoft Edge in all of the roles that you take on through the day using the multiple profiles feature, and we'll end with a demo of what the experience might look like once you have configured it. So let's start by discussing why you should care that users are signed in to Microsoft Edge. Users are most productive when they're not interrupted from the flow by annoying credential prompts and when they are able to leverage personalized services that allow them to get to the content they need from wherever they need it. When you're signed in, Microsoft Edge facilitates just that. Modern users start their day on the phone, use their PC during the workday, and end their day on a portable device like a laptop or a tablet. When users are signed in, Edge syncs their browsing data like favorites, history, and open tabs across these devices so that they can always access the things that they need. When users try to access authenticated content, browser to websites single sign-on kicks in to ensure that they can get to their work right away and stay in the flow. Moreover, if you have secured this enterprise content with Windows Information Protection or Conditional Access, Edge will allow users to access it seamlessly when they're signed in, provided that they're on a compliant device. Next, using the Enterprise New Tab Page, users can seamlessly get to their most recently used documents and sites. With Microsoft Search and Bing integrated right into the browser's search box and New Tab Page, Enterprise content is just a search away. Lastly, we're always working on new personalized, authenticated features and you will be able to enjoy them or leverage them as an admin if you and your users are signed in to Microsoft Edge. For more information about these authenticated features, please check out our other videos on the Edge YouTube channel that deep dive into these topics. Now that we've talked about why you should sign in to Microsoft Edge, let's talk about how you can do that. Edge supports three types of accounts: Microsoft accounts for consumers, Azure Active Directory or AAD accounts for enterprises, and On-Premises domain accounts for enterprises that don't use Azure Active Directory just yet. Users with these accounts can either get automatically signed in or else manually sign in. Edge supports automatic sign in with AAD accounts for users on AAD joined or Hybrid joined devices. We are working on extending this to MDM managed devices, too. If you're on a consumer device, Edge will automatically sign you in if you're signed in to Windows with your MSA account. Lastly, for users that don't have Azure Active Directory accounts, you can configure automatic sign in using On-Premises domain accounts using the ConfigureOnPremisesAccountAutoSignIn group policy on Active Directory joined devices. For users that don't get automatically signed in, they can always sign in to Microsoft Edge with their MSA or their AAD accounts manually using various entry points throughout the browser. Furthermore, you can enforce sign in for your users using a couple of methods. The preferred way to do this if users have AAD accounts and are on Hybrid or AAD joined devices is to set the NonRemovableProfileEnabled policy. Setting this policy makes the profile associated with the automatically signed in account non-removable. At the end of this presentation, we'll touch on work that we are undertaking to allow automatic sign in and thus the use of this policy available on workplace MDM joined devices as well. Like we discussed on the earlier slide, if users are not on AAD joined or Hybrid joined devices but have AAD accounts, they will need to sign in manually for now. If you would like to force these users to sign in before using the browser, you can set the BrowserSignin policy to force sign in. Lastly, for users that don't have AAD accounts, you can use the ConfigureOnPremisesAccountAutoSignIn policy. Setting this policy will automatically sign in users using their On-Premises accounts if they're on domain-joined devices and will also make the profile associated with this On-Premises domain account non-removable. Earlier, I had mentioned that when you're signed in to Microsoft Edge, you get browser to websites single sign-on. I wanted to expand on that statement and cover some details about single sign-on. At a high level, there are two types of SSO that I'd like to cover. The first, which is broadly called Primary Refresh Token based SSO, is used for SSO with Azure Active Directory Cloud servers. Microsoft sites use this form of SSO, and you can also use it to support SAML flows as well as Azure AD Connect Seamless SSO. The second type of SSO, which we broadly call ADFS SSO, is used for SSO to On-Premises providers such as ADFS. Microsoft Edge offers PRT SSO on Windows 10, iOS, and Android. We're working on bringing this to you on Win 7, Windows 8, and macOS as well for smoother authenticated experiences across all your platforms. In addition to this, we offer ADFS SSO through the browser on all platforms through a configuration of the Integrated Windows Auth Protocol or the Kerberos Protocol. Having talked about how users can enjoy a seamlessly authenticated experience with one account, let's talk about how multiple profiles can help users manage browsing from the many roles that they take on through the day. According to McKinsey, blurring of work and personal life was the leading because of lower energy levels during the COVID pandemic. At least in the digital realm, Microsoft Edge helps to provide a remedy with multiple profiles that help you keep your work and your personal browsing completely separate. In previous research, we have often found that users use multiple browsers to separate browsing for their multiple roles. With the new Microsoft Edge, we eliminate the need to manage more than one browser by empowering you to separate your browsing using the multiple profiles feature. With this feature, you can have a profile for each of your roles to keep your work and your personal browsing separate without needing to use another browser. Some other common use cases we have seen for multiple profiles are on the screen. We know that separating profiles can be hard. So we've tried to make it easier. Using Microsoft Edge, you can use the automatic profile switching feature which will prompt you to switch profiles when we detect that you're accessing work content from your personal profile or vice versa. You can also pick a default profile that links from external apps such as Outlook and Teams may open in. You can right-click on links in web pages to open them in new profiles. What's more, as an admin, you can even enforce that users only access enterprise content in their work profile using Windows Information Protection and Conditional Access group policies. With these features, we hope that you're able to seamlessly enjoy and manage a great authenticate experience in Microsoft Edge across all of the roles that you take on. Now let's walk through a short demo of what the experience might look like in the product. So I'm on a live demo machine that is Azure Active Directory joined. This machine belongs to Megan who works at Contoso. One fine day, Megan gets to work and launches the new Microsoft Edge for the very first time. In this demo, we're going to follow through her journey, experiencing the goodness of the identity story in Microsoft Edge. As you can see, Megan is automatically signed in and guided to set up the browser. In this brief setup, Megan is prompted to select her new tab page layout and then asked whether she'd like to sync her browsing data across devices. Once Megan confirms to sync, she is ready to browse. While browsing, Megan opens a new tab page and notices that she can see all her recently used documents and sites over here. She also notices that her favorites have been synced down to this new device. When she goes to any of these favorites that are authenticated SharePoint sites, she is automatically signed in using browser to website SSO with no additional authentication prompts. Now, like many of you, Megan takes many roles during her day. She wants to access a personal e-mail now to organize a picnic with a friend. To do this, Megan can use the multiple profiles feature to create a new personal profile. Once Megan adds a profile, she is prompted to sign in. In the manual sign-in process, she can pick an account that she has used on other Microsoft apps on the device or add a different account. Here, we'll use the same account that she's used on other apps on the device. Once she signs in, she's asked to consent to sync, and when she opts to sync, her bookmarks are synced down for her convenience. Now, when she opens her e-mail, she is silently authenticated using browser to website SSO with no additional auth prompts again. Now, Megan needs to come back to work. So she opens a new tab and navigates to her sales SharePoint site. Automatic profile switching kicks in since she is accessing work content in her personal profile and asked her if she'd like to switch to her work profile to use it. Once Megan agrees to switch profiles, the site opens in her work profile and she can access it seamlessly. Identity in Microsoft Edge helps Megan get set up quickly on a brand new device and enjoy a productive browsing experience, not only in her workload, but across all the roles that she takes on in her day-to-day life. Now let's switch back to the presentation. I hope you enjoyed this quick overview of identity in Microsoft Edge and that quick demo. Before I leave, I'd like to close by telling you about some of the exciting improvements we are going to bring to you. On an earlier slide, I had mentioned that we were working on extending automatic sign in beyond just AAD and Hybrid joined devices. Accordingly, we will soon be lighting up functionality to support automatic sign in for workplace joined devices as well. As I had alluded to earlier, Primary Refresh Token based browser to website SSO will also soon be available on macOS, Windows 7, and Windows 8. Lastly, we will soon make it easier to manage multiple profiles by lighting up support to pick a theme for each profile. In 2021, we will be adding additional ways to configure automatic profile switching to separate profiles using lists and other features that you can use to keep these profiles separate. It has been my pleasure to walk you through a story of identity in Microsoft Edge and I'm excited to see how you use these features to boost your daily productivity. For more information about identity in Microsoft Edge and how to configure it, please visit aka.ms/edgeidentitydocs. Thank you so much for watching this video, and I'm excited to see how you use Microsoft Edge to boost your daily productivity. [MUSIC] 