 This is the right platform to learn, how motivation transform your life, your black & white life into colorful life. Hello, Everyone! My name is Neel Garg. I am Motivational Speaker. I welcome you all to my YouTube channel. Today we will going to talk about Self Identity. How Self Identity can change your life and helps you get success ? How can we know our capablities? Our biggest problem is to compete with anyone for no sake. What we do, is to compete with anyone you see that I want to become that person, if he is doing this, then I also do th same. At the very first moment we must erase this type worthless thinking from our mind. Because Everyone has their own identity, capabilities, qualities. No one is as same as the other one. Everyone can give and do their best. Everyone has the capacity to do anything by own, in what he is good. You know something out of the box, Everyone has something different inside. some of the people recognize at early or some of them late, this is the only major point. So guys, if you want to improve and recognize your self identity if you want to know and improve your capabilities . For this, the most important thing is to book a slot of time for your own and let speak yourself, what I am and Who I am and work on yourself. then you will definitely come to know your capabilities. Because, you couldn't be like anyone else, and noone can become like you. But you Could definitely know or be like yourself or better than you. and you can also improve your identity and characteristics. you can varnish or glitter your capabilities. you can definitely do this. This is the actual life and this is struggle. In this you have to face difficulties, challenges and have to do smart & hard work. What is Struggle and Hard work? Struggle is your pen and hard work or smart work is your paper, keep it & write your own destiny. And it is obvious that if you want to do something new, then you have to face new challenges and uncertainties at your every footstep and moment. So, always be positive because easy things can be done by anyone but only heroes can come over difficulties. by facing these situations and challenges you have to choose your own path in the right direction and guidance, on what you want to run and achieve your goal or aim. Trust me you can. because your each and every footstep decides your future. How? it is like tablet or medicine. If you have correct one then it will cure you but if you choose wrong or expired one then it will definitely harms or may kill you. and for this you need to change yourself it doesn't means you have to change your nature or thinking or perspective for anyone. You just need to change yourself according to your capabilities or what hidden inside you, if you want changes in yourself In this the most important thing is "TIME". What we do? Just waste our precious time for nothing, because somewhere we have fear inside us of defeat. "The world's most successful people only became best, because they accept defeat and invest their time in learning on how to win over that." ~Neel Garg The fact is, time cannot be controlled by anyone. But if you have confidence in you and if you use that time or investing the time to know yourself, your power and capabilities despite wasting it, Then the "BEST" is waiting for you, as you can decide your own successful future. Capacity to earn depends on your capacity to learn. Because it doesn't matters, if anyone is with you or not, but if you have decided what you want to be, one day you will definitely rule the whole universe. Trust me. At last I want to say you The light is in darkness also, try to lit the lamp of your mind, happiness is more in sorrow than happiness, try to walk on bed of thorns, all the bad things will become good, try to lit the flame of faith in your mind, try to elevate morale as victory is not far off, your dreams come true, just try to chase it once. I hope you like this video and you will get something from me and I will come up with more videos like this to motivatie you. If you love this video then, please subscribe my channel hit the like button,   and ring the notification bell for more video updates. Please follow me on Instagram YouTube and Facebook. Links are given in the description box below. 