 Hey Bears! I'm the Gaming-Grizzly and welcome back to Identity V! Today I want to bring you the Top 15 Tips and Tricks that we can learn from top competitive players. I will show you these tips and tricks with the help of the gameplay that we were able to see during the NA-EU Summer tournament! If you enjoy this video, and you learned something, make sure to leave me a faaaat like, a comment in the comment section below, and if you're new on the channel make sure to subscribe to the Gaming-Grizzly! alright, Let's jump right into it! Tip No. 1: First Survivor The first survivor that you want to hunt down is either a character that is quite weak early game or a survivor that is a strong decoder. Two examples of this are the enchantress and the mechanic. Since the enchantress can't use her skill right away shes an easier target early game, and the mechanic is one of the strongest decoders, so bringing her down will slow down the survivors decoding speed by a lot. On the other side, you want to avoid hunting down a Mercenary or a Perfumer early game, since they have great kiting potential from the very start. Tip No. 1.1: Concentrate on your first survivor The survivor team will most likely try to rescue the survivor that is on the rocket chair. Playing as a hunter, it is crucial to focus on the first survivor elimination. Don't let the other survivors distract you from bringing down the first survivor again and secure that first elimination. Tip No. 2: Protect When you're playing in a survivor team, and you see that one survivor was already 2 times on the rocket chair, make sure to protect this survivor. Even if that means that you need to take a hit and even if that means that you will go down. As long as you manage to rescue the other survivor, this survivor is still in the game and can still help with the decoding. This gives you as survivor team more time bring down cipher machines. Tip No. 3: Don't be afraid take a hit This tip complements the previous advice: Don't be scared to take a hit for a teammate. That might be necessary to get a survivor from the rocket chair or to body block one hit for another survivor, or even to give you that one second that you need to heal up a survivor in front of the hunters' eyes. Tip No. 4: Blink & Hit! A strategy that we see quite often in high competitive gameplay is to use Blink & Hit. Using blink to hit a survivor in the right moment can be extremely helpful. You can get through windows & pallets quicker, you can close the gap between yourself and a kiting survivor, you can blink through walls and as Smiley Face you can even Dash & Blink to surprise hit the survivors. Tip No. 5: Webshots This tip is specifically for the Soul Weaver. Use your webshots wisely. The Webshots can get rid of an owl that protects a survivor so you can strike a hit right away, but the webshot can also make the survivor think that you might have tried to hit with an attack. In the case of the perfumer, she might use her perfume just so you can land a hit on her right after she did. Tip No. 6: Fog Blades Another specific tip, this time for the Ripper, is to use the trait Peeper to locate survivors that are nearby and to hit them through the walls with the fog blade. This can be very powerful and surprise the survivors, putting a lot of pressure on the survivor side. Hits like these need a lot of practice but will give you a considerable advantage over the survivor team once you got it down! Tip No. 7: Split up When playing on the survivor side, it's not only essential to split up during the match, to decode different cipher machines, but it is also crucial to split up when it comes to opening exit gates. If there are two or more survivors alive, you want to try to get to both exit gates, because usually, the hunter can only go for one of the exit gates. Giving the other survivors time to open up the gate on their side. Tip No. 8: Roller Coaster The Roller Coaster can give you that vital distance between yourself and the hunter that you might need to get out of the match alive. We already talked about how important it is to split up at the end, and here we can truly see why this is so crucial. Thanks to the team splitting up, one exit gate is open, and in combination with the Roller Coaster, the survivors managed to pull off a two survivor escape from an almost impossible to win situation! Tip No. 9: Jump & Attack When playing on the hunter side, there are a few situations in which you can jump down and attack a survivor. Landing these hits rewards you with no recovery time at all. That means you can keep moving right away without having to wait. In this clip we can even see a very well timed cipher pop to bring up the survivor that was just downed, but since there was no recovery speed for the photographer he even managed to pick up the survivor before she could get up again! Tip No. 10: Last Effort If the hunter hits you, right after you were rescued with tide turner, make sure to get as far away from the rocket chairs as possible. This makes the hunter walk a long distance, giving your team more time to decode the cipher machines. If you are a Mechanic player make sure to use your doll in the last few seconds before going down to make sure the doll is decoding as much of the cipher machines as possible while the hunter is bringing you to the rocket chair. Tip No. 11: Flare Gun Dodge Be aware of the Coordinator and try to read her movement. If there is the chance for her to use the flare gun, try to avoid the hit by moving behind an obstacle first. Getting hit by a flare gun shot will stun you for 5 seconds. That is a very long time, so avoiding these hits can give you a massive advantage in every situation. Tip No. 12: Create Time For the survivor side, it is always essential to create as much time for the teammates as possible. Or in other words: waste as much of the hunter time as possible. There are many situations in which you can do so, but in this example we can see the Coordinator wasting enough time of the hunter for the teammates to open up both exit gates, allowing them to escape. Also, take a look where she decided to go. It might seem weird at first, but she planned to lure the hunter as far away from the exit gates as possible. Tip No. 13: Tentacles for Blocking These tips are for the feaster. Usually, the exit routes and kiting routes of the survivors are quite visible. So make sure to block them with the tentacles. This forces the survivors to take a longer route, which makes it easier for you to catch up! Sometimes they're even forced to come back to you, or to receive the hit of the tentacle. Always keep in mind that the tentacles are the strongest feature of the feaster. Tip No. 14: Tentacles for Double hit Placing Tentacles in clever strategic positions allows you to hit a survivor with a tentacle first, and hit it quickly after with a normal attack. A spot that is quite common for this is right in front of the rocket chair that holds a survivor. But you can also try to bring a survivor down with a tentacle when you're afraid of the last cipher machine is about to pop. When the survivor goes down to the tentacle, the cipher machine pops, the survivor gets up, and you can land another strike to bring down the survivor yet again. This is a trick that can really help you during the end game. Tip No. 15: Locate Survivors Another Feaster tip: If you don't know where the next survivor could be, use a tentacle. It will fall into the direction of the closest survivor. Most feaster players know about this, but I wanted to include it anyway. Alright since we had so many Feaster tips at the end, I'll give you a bonus tip! Tip No. 16: Use Your Environment There are a few spots in which you can use the environment to your advantage. During the Summer Tournament, we saw the dream Which blocking the survivors' path between a Rocket chair and some barrels, allowing her to bring down the survivors really quickly. To pull this off needs a lot of practice but can give you a massive advantage during the match. Tip No. 17: Don't rescue right away! When a Survivor is sitting on a rocket chair, you don't have to sprint over there to rescue your teammate right away! You'd instead want to wait before the rocket chairs countdown almost hits the halfway mark, or before the rocket chair takes off. Why would you want to do that? To waste more time of the hunter. The longer you wait with the rescue, the more time do you, and the rest of your team have to decode, while the hunter is waiting for you. And that's it! Those were 16 Tips and Tricks that we can learn from top competitive players. If you saw any other tricks that you want to share with us, make sure to leave a comment in the comment section below! If you learned something today, or you just enjoyed this video leave me a faaaat like, and if you're new on the channel, make sure to subscribe to the Gaming-Grizzly for more content all around Identity V! I hope you all have a great day, and see you in the next video! Baibaiiii! 