 Hi there, I'm Edvin Palmer. Welcome to my Series on LGBTQ+ Related Topics. Today, I want to talk about how to come to terms with your gender identity and sexuality, because coming to terms with your own gender and sexuality is always a complicated and unique experience. There are a lot of opinions out there. Some will tell you what you're feeling is just a phase. Some will tell you that you're just second-guessing yourself and to let that idea go. Others will try to get you to believe that what they are saying is the truth. Ignore them. Ignore them all. No one can tell you how to feel or who to love. The only person who can uncover the truth is yourself. If you're struggling to come to terms with the fact that you might be LGBTQ+, know that you're not alone. Many struggle with these exact issues, and there is a way to deal with it. You need to spend some time to re-evaluate yourself. Go somewhere quiet where you can be alone, and think. This is key! You need to think. Think about who you are, and what makes you you. Remember all of the positive things about you, and know that no matter what gender you identify with or what your sexuality is, it doesn't determine your self-worth. Imagine yourself as both heterosexual, and homosexual, and bisexual, and transgender, and asexual, and pansexual, and so forth. Ignore social norms, and figure out which one/ones feels more natural to you. For instance, when you imagine yourself kissing someone, is it always a woman? Do you find women attractive, and in more than just a physical way? What are your wet dreams about? Which gender makes your heart race and your palms sweat more? And which gender do you want to be? Homosexual, heterosexual, bisexual, asexual, pansexual – they're all just labels used to describe types of love. Focus less on the labels and more on your feelings. How you feel is more important than how other people might label you. Coming to terms with your true gender and sexuality takes time. It won't happen overnight. You will go through some emotions to accept your true gender and sexuality. They are similar to the five stages of grief. Number One. Denial. "No, I'm not LGBTQ+. I can't be." Number Two. Anger. "Why is this happening to me?" Number Three. Bargaining. "Maybe if I experiment a little, I'll find out I'm not actually LGBTQ+." Number Four. Depression. "I can't believe I might be LGBTQ+." Until finally, you come to the most important stage: Number Five. Acceptance. Accepting your own gender and sexuality no matter what they are is a profound experience. It's this moment where your mind suddenly becomes crisp and clear. You stop and realize that, yes, this is your true gender and sexuality, and that those things aren't bad at all. They are great! When you accept your true gender and sexuality, you will feel this huge weight lifted off your shoulders. Suddenly everything falls into place. All your problems have a source, and all your feelings have a reason. Suddenly, you can't stop smiling. Some people have always known they were LGBTQ+. It takes others a long time to come to terms with their true gender and sexuality. No pace is wrong or too slow. You have to take your time and feel confident in yourself. No one can tell you what to be. If you're gay, you're gay. If you're transgender, you're transgender. If you are bisexual, you're bisexual, etc. You cannot decide to be gay or straight. You can only decide how and when you will accept your true gender and/or sexuality. And when, and if, you accept your sexuality and or true gender, it'll feel amazing. Like many things in life, there are things you cannot change. You cannot change your sexuality, or the gender you identify with. You can only change your reaction to it. If you choose to accept that you're gay, or straight, or bi, or whatever, it's a huge step in your growth as a person that needs to be celebrated. It's your right to love. No one has the right to tell you otherwise. All this info came from this website. I've left this link below this video. If you want YouTube to notify you that I've uploaded a new video in this series, subscribe to my channel. If you want to watch this series from the start, you can do that by clicking on that link as soon as it appears on the screen. I'll be back next Friday with a new book review. Till then, I only want to say three things: thank you for watching, have a great day, and bye for now. 