 Hey there we're back again with a new video and we're so glad you're here. Let's start off with a quick question: How well do you really know yourself? Have you given it much thought at all? Being more aware of who you are not only strengthens your identity, but can give you a stronger sense of purpose. We can all easily feel like we're limited by the things we can't do or even fall into the comparison trap. Feeding this mindset limits us from realizing our potential and being who we were made to be. As we celebrate diversity around the world, we encourage you to dig deep and embrace all of who you are so that you can better celebrate you. This video is broken down into 4 simple steps, so sit tight and keep watching Starting off Look in the mirror and observe what you see. Now, we know that there are things you'll see that you may not necessarily like or want to confront about yourself. But know this: you are not defined by what you look like. There are things so inherently beautiful and wonderful about you and we hope this exercise helps you get a little closer to realizing that. Here are some prompts for this first exercise: Next up, You may feel that there's nothing unique about who you are but we believe that people are complex in their own individual ways. By identifying your inspirations, you anchor your sense of self and understand how you came to be. What are some meaningful films you've watched or shows that have really stood out to you? What types of music do you enjoy and who are your favourite musicians or composers? Think about books that have changed your perspective or spark your imagination. What are some travels that have left you with stories to tell or places you look forward to visiting? As you pen these things down, think about how they've stuck with you over the years or reasons they matter to you. When you're done, you'll have a spread of things that inspire you and tickle your creative spirit. Another thing to add to your inspiration board are quotes or sayings that resonate with you. What are some words you live by? It doesn't even have to be anything too deep or profound. Maybe it's a simple phrase your mom mentioned when you were a kid, or a quote you happened to hear over the radio. To go along with this, list down the people who have been role models to you. How have they contributed to the world or your world? Think through the leaders, mentors, teachers, coaches or friends who have positively impacted your life. These are the unique experiences that have shaped you into becoming who you are today. Isn't it wonderful? Now, for an important step, Imagine life as a journey—you are sailing the seas, navigating through rough seas and wind. What defines every turn you make? By establishing strong values and beliefs, you create your own North Star. One that would help navigate you through the ups and downs of life. At the times you feel lost or confused hold on to your values and beliefs so that even when you're going through hardships, bouts of indecisiveness, conflicting options or difficult decisions, you have your north star to guide you. Everything you've gone through, has moulded you into the person you are today. Here are some other prompts for you: In our final step, Remember those New Year's resolutions? How about turning them into daily resolutions instead? By writing down your larger goals and breaking them down into smaller actionable steps, you'd find that these grand New Year's resolutions are actually very doable. Go ahead! List down 3 things to improve, change or achieve You can also use the objectives and key results method. This is a two-part process where you start by setting an objective, like being a better leader. Then you list down your key results which represent how you want to get there. The small steps you take will bring you a little closer every day to who you want to be. We hope this video was helpful and we're so glad you stuck till the end. In this video, we used Mossery's Personal Pages which is a section available in our Planners. We hope this exercise helped you realize that you were made unique and you should never compare yourself or your journey to somebody else's. Thank you so much for watching. We'd love for you to hit the subscribe button, drop us a like, and leave us a comment. Share with us some things that you want to work on for the rest of the year. Have a great week ahead and we'll catch you guys soon. 