  In the world of Cyberpunk 2077, you can substitute parts of your body for mechanical counterparts. You can have a mechanical hand, and put all kinds of upgrades in it. You can have mechanical eyes that enhance your vision. You can have stronger mechanical legs or even blades attached to your arms. But imagine you substitute every single part of your body for a mechanical part. Would you still be you? If not, if you aren't you anymore, if you've become something else, then at what point did you stop being you? And if yes, if you're still you regardless of having changed every single cell in your body for mechanical counterparts, then what are you? Are you your memories? This is the problem of identity over time.  There's an old paradox called the "Ship of Theseus". Theseus was the founder-hero of Athens. He defeated the Minotaur. It is said that the Athenians preserved the ship used by Theseus. As time went by, they would take away the old planks as they decayed, putting in new and stronger timber in their places. After many years, there wasn't a single plank from the original ship. All of the planks have been substituted. Is it the same ship or not? What is the identity of the ship? The planks that compose it? Think of an axe. An axe is composed of a handle and a head. Imagine you use it a lot until the handle gets broken. You substitute it for a new handle. Is it the same axe or a new one? Time goes by and you change the head too. Is it still the same axe? Normally, when a thing has a minor transformation we don't consider it as being something new. If you change just one plank of the ship, that's a very minor transformation. We would admit that it's still the same ship. Also, not all transformations are substitutions. Some are simple additions. Think of a cup. Now, imagine we add a handle to the cup. Is it the same cup? Normally we would say that, yes, it is the same cup. One way to defend such a position is the idea of Four Dimensionalism. It's the idea that an object extends not only in space, in the three dimensions, but also in time, hence the name "four Dimensionalism". From 10am to midday, the cup had no handle. At midday, they added a handle to the cup. From Midday to 4pm the cup had the handle. In the morning, we have the no-handle-cup, and in the afternoon we have the handled-cup. The cup consists of two time-slices: morning and afternoon. The exact same problem can be applied to us, so well portrayed in the Tin Woodman of Oz. The Wicked Witch of the East cursed Nick Chopper's axe to chop off all his limbs one by one. But each time a limb was cut off, the tinsmith Ku-Klip made him a counterpart made of tin. Until one day, Nick Chopper became the Tin Woodman. He has all the memories of Nick Chopper. Is the Tin Woodman Nick Chopper or a different person? Consider a person in two different moments in their life. Let's give them different names. So, we have young-Keanu Reeves and old-Keanu Reeves. According to John Locke, old-Keanu Reeves and young-Keanu Reeves are the same person only if old-Keanu Reeves is capable of remembering enough of what happened to young-Keanu Reeves. But memory can be a tricky thing. As a person gets old, they can forget stuff. Not to mention cases of amnesia or Alzheimer's. Let's add one more time-slice of Keanu Reeves. Here we have schoolboy-Keanu Reeves, young- Keanu Reeves, and old-Keanu Reeves. Old-Keanu can remember everything that happened to young-Keanu. And young-Keanu can remember everything that happened to schoolboy-Keanu. But old-Keanu cannot remember anything that happened to schoolboy-Keanu. According to Locke's idea, then, young and old-Keanu are the same person, and young-Keanu and schoolboy-Keanu are the same person, but the old and the schoolboy-Keanu Reeves are not the same person. That is inconsistent, which means it's wrong. There's one way to overcome this problem. A person is the same person as long as there's a memory chain. Old and young-Keanu are the same person because old-Keanu can remember everything about young-Keanu Reeves. For the same reason, young and schoolboy-Keanu Reeves are the same person. Young-Keanu Reeves links the old to the schoolboy. There's a memory chain, so all of them are the same person: The one and only Keanu Reeves. [Narrator]: "Please welcome, Keanu Reeves".  Returning to the idea of Four Dimensionalism, we have many time-slices of Keanu Reeves. What unifies them into one single person is that there's a memory chain. According to this theory, if you could upload your memories into an AI that mimics your brain, then you would be the same person. But, if a person is a person according to the memory chain, then technology poses us with two big problems: If we can upload our mind, then maybe we could make a copy of our memories, upload it to some AI, and keep living in your own original body. You could upload your memories to many different AIs. Imagine we do this to Keanu Reeves. Then every single robot will have a memory chain link to young-Keanu Reeves, co-existing with the blood and flesh Keanu Reeves! Are they less "Keanu Reeves"? Who is "the" Keanu Reeves? There are several ways to answer this problem. According to David Lewis, all of these different cyber-Keanu Reeves were already co-existing in the body of young-Keanu Reeves, but they were indiscernible at that point in time. Robert Nozick offers a slightly different answer. According to him, if all these cyber-Keanu Reeves co-exist, then none of them are identical to young-Keanu. However, if there is only one single cyber-Keanu Reeves existing, then he's identical to the young-Keanu. This would give a really nice plot for a book or a game. Different artificial copies of the same person fighting one another so that the last one can claim to be identical to the original version…  There are also other possible answers. According to Eric Olson, bodily persistence is required for personal identity. In this case, only the blood and flesh Keanu Reeves would be identical to young-Keanu.  So far, I've talked about one person branching into many different people. But the opposite is also problematic. If what defines a person is their memory's chain, then what if someone adds their memory to you? What if, instead of uploading their memories into an AI, they upload it into your mind? You would have the memories not only of yourself, but also of that other person. If you have the memories of that other person, are you identical to them?   This leads me to the final question: Is personal identity an illusion? Our memories are mixed with imagination. Your memories about the same event can change. We can even have false-memories, we can have the memory of events that never happened That's why testimony isn't always reliable. If you want to know some answers to this question, make sure to subscribe to my channel, because that will be the topic for another video. 