 Identity matters. I came of age in the 80s and 90s when Meg Ryan was one of the biggest comedy stars. As an adolescent, all I wanted was to look like her with her blonde, curly hair and piercing blue eyes. So in seventh grade, I took a picture of her from her movie "When Harry met Sally", went to the salon, and did this: For me, as a Korean-American adoptee growing up in a white family, in white, middle-class suburban communities, all I wanted was to be white. Preferably, with blonde hair and blue eyes. And I rejected the few popular images of Asians in the media at the time, mainly, Bruce Lee and Connie Chung, a Chinese-American newswoman who was the only Asian-American female celebrity that I was aware of. School didn't help either. My understanding of Asian anything came from countries-studies units in grade-school, during which I got very good at drawing the Korean flag and finding South Korea on a globe. Asian topics seemed foreign and exotic, far away and relegated to the past. US history included Asian immigrants and Asian-Americans as mere footnotes. The gold rush, transcontinental railroad, Chinese exclusion act, Japanese American internment camps, and maybe the Vietnam war, if we ever got that far in history. Nothing at all about the everyday contributions of Asian Americans, and definitely nothing about Korean-Americans specifically because, no, I'm not Japanese, and no, I don't speak Chinese. Of course, my story is not unique. Millions of non-white children have grown up in America and have been educated in American schools having their histories and cultures stereotyped, made invisible, erased, or outright lied about. When I became a middle school social studies teacher almost 20 years ago, I wanted to be the teacher that uplifted and honored the histories, perspectives, and voices of children like me, who lived their lives in relation to a dominant narrative that never included them. Fast-forward to the Spring of 2017, when I learned a very valuable lesson about identity and the power of narrative. I was teaching my 7th and 8th graders about Black Lives Matter in the wake of Eric Garner, Michael Brown, Freddie Gray, Sandra Bland, and so many others. My intent was to help my non-Black students understand that the struggle for freedom and justice for Black and African Americans is not over and that racism and white supremacy live in our systems and institutions today and not just in the past or in white KKK robes, or in the deep south. I showed my class a series of New York Times videos entitled "a conversation on race" which included videos on police officers talking about race and racism, Black parents talking to their Black children, and Black male youth talking about growing up Black in America. Very powerful videos, each offering a different perspective and, hopefully, building empathy and understanding in my students. But I was so focused on teaching my majority, non-Black students about racial justice for Black and Brown people in our country that I failed to recognize the harm I was doing to the two Black students, I'll call them Sasha and DeShawn, who were in my class. In my pursuit of a social justice education for the majority, I did not consider, or even see, the identities of the few. And I did not consider the spirit-killing power that the narrative of Black and African Americans as oppressed people would have on Sasha and DeShawn. After we watched the video of Black male youth sharing their fears, frustrations, and experiences with racism, I looked back at my class and saw DeShawn with his head down, hoodie hiding his face, clearly trying to disappear. And Sasha in tears. As she later told me, she thought about her dad and her younger brother, and feared for their lives in a way she hadn't considered before. And my heart dropped into my stomach. Here I was, perpetuating more harm on the very students whose experiences I was trying to bring more understanding to. By crafting my lesson for the racial majority in my classroom, even though I thought I was being responsive to current events and helping students talk about issues that many teachers shy away from, I failed to truly see and value the Black racial identities of Sasha and DeShawn and consider the impact of those videos and their peers' reactions to them. Identity matters. We must, as educators, always consider, how do our own identities bias our choices about what perspectives, stories, and frames of reference we choose to highlight and share? How do our identities bias which student identities and narratives we choose to see, affirm, value, and give voice to, or to deny, dismiss, and erase? The white racial identities of my own elementary school teachers growing up biased their choices about what and how to teach, so that my Asian-American identity was, essentially, erased in schools. In teaching the Black Lives Matter unit, I failed to consider how my own racial identity as a non-Black teacher of color showed up. Because I am not white, and have experienced racism in my life, I felt such an urgency to teach my white students about race and racism. My experience with racism as an Asian-American woman, however, is not akin to what Black and African Americans live through on a daily basis. And though I wouldn't have admitted it at the time, I realize now, in some ways, I felt justified in trying to speak for Black lives because I was a person of color, too. I know now that I needed to do much more of my own self-reflective work, so that I didn't put my own identity and biases on my students. Today, I no longer teach adolescents. Instead, I teach adults how to be anti-bias educators. Through my organization, AMAZEworks, I teach teachers to develop an anti-bias mindset, and engage in important, ongoing self-reflection about how their own identities and biases impact their relationships with children and families, their classrooms, and their teaching practices. Anti-bias education helps us examine ourselves as educators, while centering the narratives, identities, and perspectives of our students. Anti-bias education teaches us that identity matters. I have focused today on racial identity in particular, but identity matters across all differences, including class, culture, gender diversity, ability, beliefs, sexual orientation, and other social identities. At AMAZEworks, we use anti-bias education as a model for helping teachers reduce bias levels in children, and in themselves, by navigating conversations with children of all ages on identity, difference, and bias. Our anti-bias elementary curriculum uses picture books, and our secondary curriculum uses short videos to prompt these discussions. These books and videos provide mirrors so children can see themselves reflected in the curriculum, and windows into the lives of others who are different from them. Through these discussions and conversations, children learn to name, notice, and reject identity-based bias in all its forms. So how can you learn to be an anti-bias educator? To begin with, start asking yourself: Do my students see themselves in books and curriculum materials in non-stereotypical, counter-stereotypical, affirming ways? When crafting a lesson, ask yourself: Who's voice or perspective is missing? Who in my class might not receive or access this activity or lesson in the way I intended, and why not? And, what are some of the implicit messages this activity or lesson might convey about certain groups of people in our society? And, as always, in anti-bias education, do your own work. Think, am I doing my own self-reflective work and considering my own narrative and how my identity impacts my pedagogical choices? We know that identity matters. Students make meaning of themselves in our classrooms. I carry Sasha and DeShawn with me every day as I do this anti-bias education work. And I wonder what impact I had on how they saw themselves, and how they constructed their own narratives about who they are and, more importantly, who they could be in this world. And if only I could have had an anti-bias educator as a teacher growing up so I could have learned, at much earlier age, that my own identity matters - as much as Meg Ryan's. Thank you. 