 &lt;v - Hey, I'm Blake Smith.&lt;/v &lt;v - And I'm Mat King.&lt;/v &lt;v - And we are the Video Island Podcast.&lt;/v &lt;v - That's right and on today's episode we'll be talking&lt;/v about how we established our video styles and how you can go about building out your own. (light upbeat music) &lt;v - All right, so on today's episode,&lt;/v we want to talk about just kind of, I guess, establishing your style when it comes to your productions, whether it's shooting, editing, motion graphics, music, the whole, the whole thing pretty much, the whole kabob when it comes to your production style. Now, there will be those staples when that comes through your personal approach but then there's also the approach with doing it in regards to the brand and what makes it stand out as recognizable as a brand video versus somebody else's video. We also wanna just kinda talk about, you know, just what has influenced us, where we started, share some example of what we do, that we tend to apply to our edits, shooting whatever it be in terms of production. So I guess, let's just kick it off from there. Is there anything that stands out to you that you would like to share with our viewers, our listeners, that you generally do when it comes to your productions? &lt;v - Yeah, I think it just comes from,&lt;/v you know, you have, you see what you like, obviously, overtime and you build that into your own kind of way of doing things, doing productions, things like that. So like over the course of, over 10 years now obviously, probably 13 years or so now, 14 years of doing this kind of stuff often, you kinda pick up little things from people, little secrets, little tips, all that kind of stuff. From everything from the way you set up your camera, the lenses you choose for framing an individual up versus framing, you know, your B-roll, all that kind of stuff, lighting, all that kinda stuff. So for me it's kind of like, I always kind of, particularly within our workplace, I like to make sure that I set things up a certain way that has an approachable factor to it. So I think when people get into setting up video, they start off with, you know, I'm gonna have somebody on camera, and naturally, I'm just gonna have them kind of center-framed, kind of thing and like looking at camera. It's like, well, consider the option of like what you've seen in the past and what makes you more comfortable, right? So if I'm doing a talking head style video, maybe it's an interview, I'm doing a testimonial maybe, I don't necessarily want that person typically to be looking at the camera for one thing, but I also don't want that person to necessarily be center-framed. It's very, center-frame is a very direct and very hard edged framing type. So I like to typically, in that style of video for example, I always aim to have that person off to one side of the frame. It's a pretty classical thing to do, is to offset your individual in the frame and then what you usually do too is that wherever your individual is looking at the interviewer, they are going to be, that individual on camera is gonna be looking off into that space, so take for example, I'm on the right, on the, let's see, what side am I framed here if somebody's framed here. I'm on somebody's left side of the frame. So if they're watching this on YouTube If I were to kind of turn my body a little bit, if I'm looking off camera, so somebody's interviewing me, I'm gonna have some lead room so that my eyes kind of carry off into the side of the frame. So you don't typically want to kind of necessarily frame up somebody in the center and then have them look off frame. That's kind of like you're not giving enough space for their eye line to kind of carry off into the distance. &lt;v - There's just not&lt;/v enough balance though, right? &lt;v - No there's not a lot of balance.&lt;/v And so, but that also means you have to be paying attention to what's in behind. You can't have something that's not necessarily relevant to the video that you're making and behind as your background. So that's when you want to pay attention to what lenses you're using or the camera that you're using. If it's a fixed lens camera, in terms of, you know, softening your background, so you're getting that shallow depth of field. So maybe your background isn't the most important thing or doesn't really add a lot of context to the video that you're making but consider, you know, using a shallow depth of field to just have a more basic, soft background, so that you're subject is the most important thing in the frame. Something that I've see recently that's kind of like a I guess it's like the attempt at breaking the rules for the sake of being kinda artsy and doing things differently is that, like I said, as opposed to having that leading space across the frame of the, across the frame, when that person's framed up on the one side of your shot, people are doing interviews where they're framing people fairly close with their nose almost touching the edge of the frame. So the leading space is behind them in the frame. So we are obviously taught within school, you know, within a video production class, to not generally do that, right? Because you're losing that lead space and you're not necessarily causing, following the natural eye line. This causes discomfort within the viewer, subtly, all that kind of stuff, so, it adds like a certain weird edge to the frame. &lt;v - Yeah, well and not to interrupt, but like,&lt;/v even in that sake of having that person and you have that space between them where they're looking and the side of the frame, in a situation where you're gonna use the lower third, or any other graphics, you do have that space to insert that stuff there without it being too congested, right? Whereas if you have that person, same framing, but they're facing the other way, it would kind of be, it would look funny if you have the lower third or any graphic behind them. &lt;v - That's right.&lt;/v &lt;v - Unless it's purposely done for the style or the approach&lt;/v that you want to do. &lt;v - That's right, it's strange though.&lt;/v &lt;v - But honestly I just don't see why.&lt;/v &lt;v - I'm seeing it more and more though.&lt;/v So I've watched everything from interview with athletes to some, you know, maybe it's a video produced for a department of a college or something like that. I've watched all kinds of different videos that use that kind of framing, just to change things up. But to me, it's like I would use it more for something that's supposed to make somebody feel a level of discomfort versus just generally being a part of the interview. But, to each their own. So, that's just something to pay attention to when you're kind framing up your shot is that if you're doing an interview, have him look off camera as opposed to at camera. I mean, it's different if I'm having, say a CEO deliver and address to a company, maybe then I might choose to have them look directly into the lens and be a little bit more center-framed potentially, because it is a very direct address and they're directly communicating with the person on the other side of the lens. But, there's still opportunities to do either one. &lt;v - Yeah, and as you kind of say that, right like,&lt;/v as they're looking off the frame, one thing to kep in mind, obviously we work together so, I see you do that and even in the situation, like I guess to give a little bit of context, Mat and I went to school together. We've known each other for 10 years. &lt;v - Over 10 years.&lt;/v &lt;v - 10, so we went to school together,&lt;/v we worked don some projects after school together, we did some contract freelancing work, we went our ways and then we came back. &lt;v - To work where we are now!&lt;/v &lt;v - To where we are now.&lt;/v So we do have similar backgrounds and we do kind of have influence on each other. So I would do the same thing, but in terms of the framing for the interview style looking off camera, we've seen, you know, students or people who aren't so much experienced try to do that, but it's almost too severe where they have the person looking way off so you're almost getting the profile view opposed to a good angle. So in those types of situations, right, you normally want that interviewer or wherever the subject's looking because maybe in the situation you don't have an interviewer. It's literally you manning the camera. So in situations like, I'm sure you've done it, I've done it, you offset yourself to be right beside the camera that they're looking at you. But you're not too far away from the camera. You're, and it doesn't even take much. &lt;v - You're standing right beside it.&lt;/v &lt;v - You're standing right beside it&lt;/v and it's just that slight angle away from the lens. &lt;v - Yeah, that gets rid of that bit of harshness&lt;/v there would otherwise be if they look more at the lens. &lt;v - Exactly.&lt;/v  &lt;v - But like,&lt;/v you're exactly right, for the sake of being artsy or trying to do something edgy, it could make things a little bit odd, right? It can sometimes work as a secondary angle, if you're doing a two camera shoot, when you want that cutaway. &lt;v - When you're doing&lt;/v that severe angle? &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v  &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v &lt;v - But at the end of the day what you want to do&lt;/v when you're framing up your shot to stay safe, is particularly within like, you know like, corporate video world and things like that is that you're always gonna be focused on the eyes obviously so get your focus point on the individual's eyes so to make sure that those are crisp and clear because the whole idea is that the eyes are like the doorway to an individual's soul is the whole saying. But it's very much true when it comes to videos that if you're doing that slightly side angle, you still don't want to lose both eyes because there's again, a subconscious feeling of not only discomfort but that feeling of you're lacking the truth if you're only seeing a part of their face and one eye only. So all this kind of background stuff that like plays subconsciously in our minds is something to pay attention to. So seeing both eyes, even like on a harder side angle is what you will always want to sort of strive for. So it's things like that. Also too, if you're going on a hard side profile, sometimes you might not necessarily complementing the person's features as well as you could be maybe if they have a more pronounced nose or something like that. If you're on the hard side you're really gonna be showing that off versus kind of softening things to be a little bit more balanced within the frame. So that's something I pay attention to in terms of my framing. Again, when it comes to lens selections, I'm gonna use a lens that's a little bit more of a close up lens, more of a portrait style lens, so anything that's about a 50 millimeter focal distance or above that, because that's your standard portrait style lens. And what that means is that versus being fully wide angle in my shot and framing up my individual in the interview like a medium or close up shot for my interview. They're gonna be very bowed and distorted because the wider angle you go and the closer in you go to an individual, the more of that bowing and distortion you're gonna have. So effectively it's like, the wider angle and the close you are to something, the more of that fisheye effect you effectively start to get, right? So you wanna kinda typically do the opposite for most standard interviews. Typically, especially within, you know, the business world, is that you want to be a little bit more complimentary and little bit more slimming to their features and their body. So if you use a more zoomed in lens, like a 50 millimeter, 100 millimeter, 150 millimeter, you're gonna be complimenting them a little bit more by, it kinda slims them, just very mildly. And again the focus becomes more on them and so you'll find too that you're getting less of the background behind them once you do the same kind of framing as you would if you were to use the same, get the same framing on a wide angle. So, test it out, so it's like I've shown this to people, so take a really wide angle lens and frame an individual up for an interview. Say you're doing like a, from chest to head up. &lt;v - So let's say, let's just throw out a lens for example,&lt;/v 'cause a good one that we use all the time is the 24-105 so yeah, let's use that for example where you have the constant aperture with the camera, or with the lens, sorry, yet you have the ability to obviously zoom in. &lt;v - Go from a wide to a pretty zoomed in option as well.&lt;/v Yeah, that's a great lens made by Canon, if you can pick one of those up. But say, if you were to frame up that individual and you do this on your camera. You take a 24 millimeter or equivalent wide angle lens and frame them up from chest to head kind of thing and take a snap. &lt;v - The widest point.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, the widest point on the lens and take a shot of that&lt;/v and then zoom in on the lens. &lt;v - Pull the camera back.&lt;/v &lt;v - Pull the camera back&lt;/v and get the same framing chest to head and you'll see what it does for not only their facial features and body, but for the background. And which one's probably more complimentary? I'm gonna say, that more zoomed in one is gonna be the more complimentary. &lt;v - You'll see less of the background&lt;/v and the foreground, your subject. &lt;v - Yeah, you're distorting them a little bit less&lt;/v and giving them a less of that bent, kind of bowed out, fisheye look to them. So that's one to pay attention to. Try it out. Even on fixed lens cameras, if you were to take like a simple Handycam and zoom out and do the same thing, and then zoom in a decent amount. Back up so you can get that same kind of framing as the wide angle, you're gonna get that same affect. Something to pay attention to. Yeah, outside of that, in terms of my lighting, an option for a lighting, we're doing like a three point lighting set up so we're using two lights in front and then one light behind to kind of pull. The light behind is going the be a hair light so that kind of pulls them, that subject off of the background. Within our space, within the business world, that seems to do a pretty good job. I'll typically light them fairly even with the background or if I find that I'm in a background or in a space that the background doesn't really kind of add context or much flavor to what the video is about, I'll brighten up my lights a little bit more so that I expose my lens or my camera for that brightness level of the lights and what you'll see is that being that there's no lights on the background, is that that background starts to darken a little bit and so you're putting more emphasis on that individual and less emphasis on that individual within the space. So that's a nice little trick to be able to kind of play around with is like the different, a neutral lighting set up versus a more subject emphasized lighting set up. Yeah, so those are some of the things I typically kind of go into when I'm doing my framing for a standard interview. But that kind of carries off, carries across the board. If I'm, you know, getting a B-roll shot of something and it's on, say it's a laptop on a table or whatever. Again I can have the same thing where I want the show off the laptop or whatever piece of software's on that laptop, whatever, or somebody working on that laptop, I'm going to pay attention to what's in my background. Do I need the background to focus or not? Or do I just want my individual in focus, mixed with again, the lighting that I used with that shot, do I want that background to be just as important as that laptop on the table or do I want it to kind of fall off a little bit and have the laptop and whatever's on that laptop be the star. All those things are kind of something I take into consideration. So, yeah, that's kind of like the way I approach a production generally speaking. Again, the other thing too, aside from like the framing is the audio. So, as much as we can, I like using a shotgun microphone. I find the audio to be really good but often times we're using a lavaliere microphone like what we're wearing. Typically though, on most testimonial productions or anything like that, I'm gonna try and hide the microphone. So for this kind of format it's okay because it's not as important that we hide the microphone per se, it's not a real secret, but in terms of those kinds of productions, like interview based or campaign higher level video, you don't really want to see the microphone on somebody. So we try and hide those. Testimonial, all that sort of thing, it's a really good thing, to me it's like, if you're seeing the microphone on like a video testimonial, it's like the same thing as seeing the lighting. So like I wouldn't see a light behind somebody when I frame them up for a customer testimonial shoot so why am I seeing the microphone clipped on them. Just buy some gaffer tape and hide the microphone within their clothing. And yeah, then it's less distracting for the viewer watching, like oh, like you're seeing part of the production or part of the set, just kind of funny. Yeah, those are some of the things. &lt;v - Yeah, so for me, like when I'm doing shoots, now,&lt;/v for, you obviously know and for our viewers and listeners who've maybe tuned into our other episodes, know that I like to dwell in the motion graphics and aftereffects world. So I kind of have this, and it's kind of a double edge sword for me, 'cause I always have this habit of wanting to add motion to things, even if it is like shooting something with a camera. So like, yes, you can go a long way and you can do some cool things by adding motion to your shot. A big, you know, when we were getting into this, Philip Bloom was a videographer, or I guess a director of photography, who did a lot of pretty awesome work and I remember he came out with the Pocket Dolly, I believe it was called. So someone we knew had one and he would let us use it. And I remember getting my hands on this dolly or slider and everything I was shooting. &lt;v - Yeah, you're making I move.&lt;/v &lt;v - Had slides, right?&lt;/v And it looks cool and you know, having something in the foreground, revealing something in the background, so an example of that would be having the slider, maybe behind a wall, ever so slightly behind a corner as you pull out and you're revealing maybe somebody hammering away at something, whatever. &lt;v - In the distance.&lt;/v &lt;v - In the distance, yeah exactly.&lt;/v &lt;v - It's a great tool for like establishing a scene, right?&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v  &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v &lt;v - So, I love doing shots like that,&lt;/v you know, dollying in, backwards, back and forth. You can't really do so much, I guess, crane work. You could if you really wanted to if you had the right accessories for it. (laughing) And yes you could do that kind of crane style, unless you got makeshift with it, but-- &lt;v - I think it depends on your video, right?&lt;/v Is that motion adding you know, some entertainment and some value to what I'm shooting or am I just putting the sliding in, the dollying, like trucking and dollying for the sake of just making the camera move. &lt;v - Yeah, and so from the instance of interviews,&lt;/v you don't, so you don't want that, so if you have one camera you wouldn't want to be sliding back and forth during the whole interview. It would be pretty nauseating. Just literally back and forth, left to right. So it's good though in this situation where you 're talking about when you have multiple cameras and you have that secondary angle. You have that primary, 'cause we've done it before where you do have that primary camera that is your, you know, go to A-cam where you're primarily going to be showing the interviewer or interviewee, sorry, giving their answers or sound bites, et cetera. But you did have that option of having that secondary camera that is a little bit wider, 'cause you have your subject in, I guess the foreground, then have that, whether it's office space, whatever it be in the background and as you slide, an you're not moving so much but you just have that subtle motion and you see that kid of parallaxing which is your subject, 'cause especially while you're sliding, and you have the tripod head with the plate that the camera is sitting on, being able to pan so as you're sliding you can be angled one way, kind of gives it that circular affect. &lt;v - Right, yeah, you keep your subject in the same frame&lt;/v but you're sliding-- &lt;v - While panning the camera head.&lt;/v It gives a very cool parallax effect and for that secondary camera that you're going to cut to for the interview, it looked really good and that's me, and you don't want to have it be overkill, you know, be tasteful with it and sprinkle it in throughout the edit and yeah, it comes a long way. And even from a B-roll standpoint, adding that motion as well, looks great. It gives it that cinematic feel, look to it. &lt;v - And it buys you a little bit more time too.&lt;/v 'Cause I feel like, if you have like a static item that you're getting a B-roll shot of, you can probably only be on that static item, depending on, like if it's not doing anything, really. Say it's a laptop, right? You can only stay on that laptop just like there, on like a screen for three seconds but if you use, use like for example a slider, and you add a left to right or like a front to back motion to it, you know, you're trucking or you're kind of dollying on that motion of that laptop. Sometimes you can get like six seconds. So you kind of doubled your ability to expend the use of that clip for longer because there's interest still happening, right? &lt;v - Well and the cool thing to it too is like&lt;/v if you even want to have that focus, like a pull on the focus, you don't even actually have to physically do it. It's just a matter of set your focus point and then as, so whether you want it to come into focus or out of focus, you obviously have that established and just by moving the camera in and out, will automatically do that because it has that distance set and then when you obviously adjust that distance it's either gonna be coming in or out of focus, right? So that's just a cool effect. Now on the other end of that, just in regards to when I'm shooting sometimes and I don't have a slider, so I've done this when I've just gone on vacation, I made like I was in South Africa, I was in Japan, and these were big trips for me, like I wanted obviously to capture as much as I could while I was there, just for the sake of having it, having the memories and reflecting. I didn't have a slider or anything like that. But at the same time I did have a tripod and sometimes I didn't, so thankfully there's a warp stabilizer, that helped me out there. &lt;v - Makes good shake.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, but what I would sometimes do&lt;/v and I've done this as well with interviews or with, you know, talking heads, B-roll, whatever it be, I just keep in mind that I want to shoot a little, I'll shoot a little bit wider. Especially in the instance, whether it's 4K footage or even if it's 1080 footage because we've worked with the Canon's, like even the 5D. I have this 60 personally and you want to do that kind of slo-mo effects of doing the whole shoot at 60 frames and then convert it back to 24. It only shoots at 720 so if you want to use that footage you're in sometimes in that situation where you inevitably have to edit at 720. &lt;v - Yeah, 720 would be p versus 1080p.&lt;/v &lt;v - Exactly, so in those situations,&lt;/v sometimes I'll just shoot a little bit wider and then when I bring that footage into post, 'cause maybe it's a nice scenic shot of a building, whatnot, and I just bring it into post. I can maybe scale it up a little bit so maybe I'm just working at 1080, the sequence is 1080 and the footage I shot is a bit wider. What I can do is to get the desired look, maybe scale it up by 10 percent. It doesn't, just by that increment it doesn't cause that much of a-- &lt;v - Degrade in quality.&lt;/v  &lt;v - Degrade in the quality.&lt;/v But it does give you that little bit of cushion so with that you can now do, it's obviously not the exact, because everything, it's just a flat image, you're essentially doing a digital zoom, whether just to scale it up by 10% or if you were to, you know, set the key frames and have it, you know, pan from left to right. The Ken Burns effect, it's pretty much known as, but it's basically doing that, imposed with your footage, still provides that subtle motion, especially when it's a static shot. Maybe the footage isn't necessary, because maybe there's a flag blowing, whatnot, but you want to add a little more motion to that shot, you can go about it that way and yes, it's a hacky, scrappy approach to, you know, if you want to establish that type of motion that you would get out of a slider. And it works right? &lt;v - We don't have all the money in the world.&lt;/v We have to get scrappy with this, so it's a great tip. &lt;v - Well, we do have a slider though.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, we do but not everybody does.&lt;/v &lt;v - Not everybody does, I know, I know.&lt;/v So that's one thing that I generally do when I'm shooting 'cause, and we've talked about it before, it's like, think about the edit while you're shooting, right? Because it's more helpful in the long run when you have these ideas in mind, opposed to just shooting randomly and then come the edit and you're like, well, I want to do this approach but then you're like, well, I don't have the right footage. &lt;v - Yeah, exactly.&lt;/v And that's something actually to add to that too. It's like when I'm thinking about my edit. I think we can move on to editing, I want to know what your-- &lt;v - That's good.&lt;/v But you can segway. &lt;v - Yeah, but like the last thing I was just thinking of is&lt;/v I know I like to tell people when I do B-roll, when I'm getting a B-roll scene, if I say, focus up on somebody at a computer doing work or whatever it might be, I like to break down that scene into a series of shots. So maybe we got a wide angle to establish that individual within their space, but then I got a medium shot of that person over the shoulder or reverse I'm getting the computer and I'm looking over that individual, I'm seeing their face or I'm going over the shoulder towards the computer and I'm grabbing that shot. And the third shot could be, you know, I'm getting their hands typing on the keyboard or they're doing something or right there you have three shots out of one scene. So, and within those three shots, you can cut those together and build that together and build out a scene that lasts you several seconds, right? Versus just one shot. &lt;v - Generally you know, when we do a shot, a clip of B-roll,&lt;/v I roughly, from starting point, aim for three seconds, three to four seconds. &lt;v - Right.&lt;/v &lt;v - Right, so right there,&lt;/v just from those three shots that you're talking about, right there you have nine seconds. &lt;v - That's right, yeah.&lt;/v At the minimum you have nine seconds. &lt;v - And obviously give or take,&lt;/v whether you want to do a little bit longer. It also depends on the pace of the edit. &lt;v - Yeah, and depending on like my scene,&lt;/v if it's like a really cool space that I'm in, maybe I'll get like a more dynamic shot so I get up on a cool angle or I get low and go on some, like, just add a little spunk and spice, but I'll do, I got my safety shots so to speak, and then I'll get maybe dynamic shot, just like add in and see if I like that better, depending on how my edit comes together and what the style is. But right there, you know, you have three or four shots you can work with and as opposed to just grabbing one shot of somebody working and then you move on to the next thing and just like, ah, because then you're just going to be B-roll hunting for a lot longer versus realizing that you can extend a scene of B-roll to last over a further time line within your video. &lt;v - And once, what I find real rewarding with that too,&lt;/v when you're shooting that B-roll, extend that duration of time so in the example that you shared of some body typing on a keyboard, maybe record like 20 seconds of it, rather than being like, all right, I have five seconds, that's enough. Because you want that cushion, because and then, do that with all the different angles and whatnot and then when it comes to the edit, see what I find rewarding is when you put all the shots together, especially when they're like at maybe five minutes from each other, at that time when you're recording, and you find those perfect moments and when you stitch it together like it just, the sequence of it just comes together perfectly that it's just like it's just a natural flow. Everything just looks like tight, it's perfect. &lt;v - It seems like it all happened at one time.&lt;/v And it just, like it seemed like, oh there's three cameras shooting at once. &lt;v - 'Cause it's like even&lt;/v and why I was saying about recording like that long duration of time is because it gives you more room to pick, right? Because say you have the person typing and so you have that wide shot and then you did the, I can't remember the exact three that you shared, but maybe you're shooting &lt;v - The over the shoulder.&lt;/v &lt;v - Okay, over the shoulder,&lt;/v well I'm saying maybe you have the wide, yeah, maybe, okay let's do that, so it's the wide shot, you have them picking up their mug or whatever and they're taking a drink. You, for whatever reason you record only five seconds and that's all you have. And then you go to that next scene, over the shoulder and they're already typing. There are parts that some people may not really notice or care but for me, it's that break, right, of like, you have that wide shot of them sipping at their drink just 'cause they took a brief pause from their typing, because they're thirsty, but then that next shot is then, cup's down or whatever they're typing and there's just that disjoint right there, right? &lt;v - Yeah, that's right.&lt;/v &lt;v - So if you have that 20 seconds&lt;/v maybe they are drinking, they put it down and go back to typing, that's when you have the cut and then go to over the shoulder where the taping continues. &lt;v - Or the opposite end of that is like&lt;/v if you notice that they just took a drink, it's like when you reframe for maybe a close up of them working away so you're framed up from the side of the computer looking over towards them on a more close up shot, maybe then you build your thread by being like, can I get you to pick up your mug and take a drink while you're looking at the computer screen again, right? So they'll do the same thing so that you can start on the wide of them taking the drink and then you cut over to that next shot of them finishing the drink and setting the cup down and continuing working and then your next sequence shot is like a closeup maybe of like the keyboard, like the hand on the keyboard typing, that's like your threaded sequence right now, right? So it's like, things like that that you've gotta just kinda like work on practicing and paying attention to. That starts to make things, like you said, seamless, you go the sequence and things don't feel as disjointed. &lt;v - Yeah, I think that's good, that's cool.&lt;/v &lt;v - I was going to say, so that's like,&lt;/v we're kinda talking about editing in terms of like your standard interview, B-roll, is there anything that you do, or that you lean towards when maybe cutting together like a compilation or like a hype video or something like that? &lt;v - I obviously, I'm really fueled&lt;/v by when I'm doing like a highlight or even like we do our year end videos, for example, where we're taking a bunch of like outtakes and like cutting them together. I'm really fueled, obviously, by whatever music track I'm using so like that's a big factor for me. It's like I gotta, you know, gather all my footage, kind of find, grab all my usable clips kind of thing and then from there, it's like what's that inspiring track that's really gonna like fuel this video, particularly for like compilations or things like that. It's like do I, you find what that tempo is and at the very simplest form of it, you can work on a good quality video by cutting on the beat of, you know what I mean? So maybe you're not doing crazy cuts or anything or like crazy effects, but maybe all you're doing is you're cutting your compilation footage to the beat of the music, right? That's a good starting point. Maybe there's opportunities, and we did it recently, where, or you did it recently, where like you had maybe it was text onscreen whatever it was, but there was like a really cool, like,   do, do, do     Do, do, do, do   or whatever, so like every, like on those tight like beats, it's like   bump, bump, ba-dump   and on those, ba-dump, like you made your text go like, boom, boom, and like it zooms in and jumps to the beat or whatever. Adding that little bit of spice and flair really gives the video just that little more character and it doesn't really take that much work. You just got to scale up your text maybe a few time, whatever it is. &lt;v - Five percent.&lt;/v &lt;v - Ba-bump!&lt;/v And like adding, it makes the music tie into the video a lot more if it's, if you picked a good track, right? So I think that's part of the fun. Part of the frustration sometimes is trying to find a music track because again, with, in our world, we have to obviously pay for a licensed music so we can't just pick Bon Jovi or whatever we want. &lt;v - Whatever rocks.&lt;/v &lt;v - Darn, no more Bon Jovi for us.&lt;/v But within our world, obviously, we have to have all licensed music and so we found some and feel free to elaborate on some of those places, but we found some sites that allow us to use some pretty decent quality music that isn't so stock sounding and it's a little bit, it's produced by musical artists. Not super famous ones, but ones that you're getting pop music, you're getting synthesized music, you're getting rock, folk, you're getting all kinds of different genres. Then you can break down from there to, you know, make sure that it applies to your overall, your video that you're trying to do. &lt;v - Yeah, so as Mat alluded to,&lt;/v the music libraries that we pull from are artlist.io, which is a subscription based. It's what, $200 U.S. &lt;v - Yeah, I think it's 200 bucks U.S.&lt;/v for the year. &lt;v - For the year.&lt;/v And it's unlimited tracks that you can download so-- &lt;v - It's pretty sweet.&lt;/v &lt;v - Even like to be honest with you,&lt;/v if you're gonna be editing a lot of videos, even if you're a small shop and you're doing videos on the side, maybe just for weddings or whatever it be, I'd still say that's worth the value for sure. &lt;v - 200 bucks, yeah.&lt;/v I mean, that's like a drop in the bucket. &lt;v - Yeah, like for songs sometimes&lt;/v to get the royalties to buying one track can sometimes cost that much. &lt;v - Oh, for sure, I mean, there are some sites I'd love to use&lt;/v and for smaller companies if you're a small production house and you're like five or 10 people, then there's different tiers based on the size of your company. So it would be like, oh, if you're like a 10 person or less team, the price for this track is $100 track, but like for a company our size, it's like $900 and like, well we can't be paying $900 per music track. It's just not feasible. &lt;v - And then the other library&lt;/v that we sometimes dabble in is Envato's AudioJungle. We sometimes pull from there but as of lately, we've been doing Artlist a lot more. &lt;v - Oh yeah.&lt;/v &lt;v - That being said, so when you are editing,&lt;/v let's maybe focus on what you do personally opposed to brand-wise. When you are editing, what do you like to lean towards. I guess in terms of finding music. Like what's, what do you generally look for first? &lt;v - In terms of finding a music track?&lt;/v &lt;v - Finding music track.&lt;/v &lt;v - I start off with like trying to establish&lt;/v what genre of music works best for whatever video I'm making, right? &lt;v - Yeah, oh yeah, definitely and obviously the theme&lt;/v and style of the video obviously comes into play there. But I guess in terms of, so let's say, it's a hype compilation video that you're making. Do you generally lean towards something that is more like EDM, or you want on the hip-hop side or more on the rock? &lt;v - Yeah, I think it depends.&lt;/v I think I might have been a little bit more EDM before, during the EDM craze, but I really like a good, like, rocky song, or like a pop rock song, or like sometimes just like a good hip-hop beat, sometimes works well. So it's not necessarily EDM per se, but it's still kind of like electronic based music because it's like hiphop back beats and things like that. Sometimes like a really cool back beat is like yeah, that's like a really cool, like, it's not overly hard core as rock, 'cause sometimes rock can be a lot of like heavy drums and cymbals and it's very built up and loud but sometimes you just want something that just like kind fuels something without like interrupting the vibe of whatever video clips you're putting together. Maybe, particularly if you're having audio attached to that compilation where you're having, let's say it's a blooper reel and a lot of the bloopers involve like people saying something funny. You don't want something that's too heavy of a track that like really cuts into the people talking. You want something that's a little bit more in the background but still like keeps the video going. So, yeah, I'll flow between a pop rock and like a hip-hop track kind of thing, right now. That's what I find, less electronic. &lt;v - Yeah, I'm in the same boat.&lt;/v I generally and it's maybe just my own personal bias, just because I have the tendencies, I have the tendency of listening to a lot of hip-hop style music and so I generally lean in that direction, not only just because I like it but at the same time, it actually makes it easier to edit the music because it's very repetitive just based off of the drum beat. And sometimes when you've done your edit of the video, it doesn't end so nicely with the end of the point in the song, so just given you can find those loops or maybe the song isn't long enough and then you can find just those loops and you splice it and then maybe you duplicate that several times just to stretch it out. &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v &lt;v - It allows that and so that's one strong reason&lt;/v to why I lean in that direction of using hip-hop music. &lt;v - I think it's important to know, right, too,&lt;/v because it's like I barely ever look at the length of a track that I'm looking to use or purchase. I barely ever, unless it's like 20 seconds, right? If my video is like a minute and a half long I don't want to necessarily be looping the heck out of a 20 second clip of music. But if it's like a minute and a half track or two minute track and my video is maybe four or five minutes, I mean, that's still plenty of content to be able to, kind of like you said, be able to find those cuts and loop something and extend the track. So, yeah, look at those options and don't really pay so much attention to the length of track, like oh, my video is a minute and a half, I need a minute and 28 second clip of music. It's like, figure out where you can make those cuts. &lt;v - In the terms of editing, I'm gonna shift back to more of,&lt;/v 'cause yes, obviously audio goes a long way, runs hand in hand with the video, especially when you edit your video to the music, it just gels together as opposed to just slopping that music in as just an under track. Is there anything that you steer away from that you don't necessarily like when it comes to editing? Example being and I'm gonna reference the Simpson's right now, and star swipe! &lt;v - Yeah exactly, the star swipe episode.&lt;/v &lt;v - Just using any and every transition.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, I typically, I'm very much a big fan&lt;/v of the less is more approach to like most kind of edits and letting the content of the video kind of speak for itself. So I'm less trying to impress people with flashy effects per se. Effects can be good and sometimes you want that extra little somethin' somethin', but I don't, if I'm doing that, or we're doing that, it's like we're thinking about that during the pre-production meeting, like it's a part of the video to have these effects in place for a reason versus like getting into my edit and being like, ah, this like parts kinda boring or scrappy, I need to throw something on it to be like a distraction, right? Smoke bomb kinda thing. And I find like that's when people are getting into video editing, they just try and figure right a way to make like a ugly cut kinda better by throwing on a funny transition. The easiest and simplest and most classic one being a cross dissolve or a fade. So if you have an interview and you only had one camera and it's pretty scrappy, that's all you had, you didn't really have a lot of B-roll, you just have your interview and maybe it's like you did a 10 minute interview and you've cut down the interview to about two minutes. Congratulations, I know it seems hard but it's totally doable. You got it down to two minutes but then that means you have a lot of cuts in there. Try and think of other ways to cut the video without or think about like B-roll that you can create on your own off of your computer, particularly if it's a technology company that you've done an interview with. Maybe go onto their website and find some cool stuff to do screen recordings of. But at the end of the day I ideally don't want to like watch an interview that's just the person on camera and that just keeps cross dissolving between cuts to make it a little less harsh. I never use cross dissolves. But I find that i don't need to because you can almost always find a nice way to cut between a person saying something and their next sentence smooth even if the shot does jump, it's called a jump cut, if you like cut from a person to that same person or whatever for example saying something different and maybe they kind of jump their position or slightly moved in the frame. I'd rather see that and rather just have like the thing kind of flow because I paid attention to their voice and when they took like a natural pause versus trying to cut in the middle of them saying something to butt it up against something else and it's very harsh so I just put fades on it. It just, it takes me out of the content of the video by watching the person kind of melt behind themselves as they get, like they melt on, you know what I mean? &lt;v - Um-hmm.&lt;/v &lt;v - It's like, it's very jarring so I try not to use it.&lt;/v Depending on the video, I might like fade up or fade out of a video, depending on the video that I'm making, but I won't cross dissolve between clips that often. To me it's like the only time that I've maybe used it, it's like if it's really appropriate in a really soft and gentle wedding video and it's like I'm going from like an external shot of like the wedding venue and I'm like I'm doing some slow fade in to like maybe it's like the bridal party getting ready in a room in that venue. Maybe I can do some cool kind of fade into that scene but again, time and a place and it depends on the style of the video. &lt;v - Yeah and exactly, that's more of a stylistic decision&lt;/v opposed to, oh, I have these two clips, how do I flung them together. &lt;v - That's right, less is more.&lt;/v Again it's that whole like putting lipstick on a pig kind of thing. &lt;v - Yeah and I (laughs) lipstick on a pig, I can only imagine.&lt;/v Yeah, no, I completely agree and that was going to be my point. So not to repute what you said and the thing that I think that I've seen people do, which I would stay clear from is using the built in like, filters, that, like, add a stylistic approach. I get it, if you're in high school and it you're like making a high school project and-- &lt;v - You just want to try something.&lt;/v &lt;v - And you want just, out of,&lt;/v to get away from that Handycam look, sure. But I don't know. &lt;v - Let the content speak for itself.&lt;/v They try and flash it up for the sake of making something boom or explode on screen, like it doesn't make sense. &lt;v - I'll admit to you guys, like, I'm color deficient,&lt;/v so I'm not good when it comes to color correcting and color grading. He knows first hand I've made some silly mistakes but there are some tools like the vectorscope and such that do help with that. But me personally, I still struggle from time the time. But even in those situations. &lt;v - I'm here for you.&lt;/v &lt;v - Tear.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, exactly.&lt;/v (laughing) &lt;v - Yeah, that is one thing like I will not go to,&lt;/v even given my situation, I will not rely on the defaults of what the editing software provides because it just, none of them ever look good. &lt;v - They all look weird,&lt;/v they've got like a funky coloring and sound effects. &lt;v - Yeah, and like you may see,&lt;/v if you watch YouTubers and they upload their LUTs and whatnot that you can apply to have, it doesn't always look good. &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v &lt;v - So if the idea is that you want to stylize your footage&lt;/v and maybe you're shooting something that's supposed to be a little more cinematic opposed to, I guess. &lt;v - Corporate.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yes, less corporate, but&lt;/v and I guess we can kinda talk about that in terms of like color grading versus color correcting. But yeah, just throwing on those types of filters for the sake of it because, hey, why not. It looks cool, to you, right? &lt;v - Will it look cool to everybody that watches&lt;/v or will they just be kind of distracted by it? &lt;v - Exactly, so I'd say that to me,&lt;/v obviously outside of the cross fades and star swipes and the blind wipes and all the weird ones. &lt;v - Yeah, don't use those weird transitions.&lt;/v &lt;v - I don't understand why they put them in that,&lt;/v because no one ever uses those. &lt;v - Right, unless you're really into PowerPoint.&lt;/v Because if you're a PowerPoint king or queen, and then you go into video editing, they're like, oh, I can use that transition that's in PowerPoint. &lt;v - Cool.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, exactly, like dodge it all together.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v  &lt;v - Yeah.&lt;/v &lt;v - So, I guess still on kind of an editing realm,&lt;/v is there, when it's so, just to use that as I kind of alluded to there with the color grading versus color correcting, for people who don't know, obviously color correcting is as it sounds. You are adjusting the color in the picture to have a proper white balance, 'cause maybe for whatever reason-- &lt;v - White balance exposure, all that kind of stuff.&lt;/v &lt;v - That stuff was off during the recording&lt;/v just 'cause maybe the lighting or maybe the camera setting didn't have a proper white balance. So you correct that within the editing software versus color grading is applying a stylistic kind of color, a feel to it, so if you wanted the, so it's more in the sake of a cinematic approach, so if you wanted to have the shot feel more cold 'cause it's supposed to be, like you're making a thriller or sci-fi or maybe add a little greens 'cause-- &lt;v - Take The Matrix for example.&lt;/v &lt;v - Exactly.&lt;/v &lt;v - All of The Matrix, if you're in the Matrix&lt;/v I think is when it's green, and there's more of a green hue to it. Go back and watch those movies and I think when you're outside of the Matrix like on the ship or whatever, it's more blue or a little more-- &lt;v - It's colder.&lt;/v &lt;v - Well yeah, it's a little bit more straightforward looking&lt;/v to the eye a little bit more. Yeah, so that's like an example of doing color grading but it influences, you know, the feel of that scene. &lt;v - Yeah, so that being said, is there anything&lt;/v that you do like just off the bat, when it comes to color correcting? &lt;v - Yeah, so, it's a delicate balance,&lt;/v 'cause within our work, I mean, we can only stylize stuff so much. Within my work, I try and color correct versus color grade a little bit more honestly. I'm just looking to, we work, well the cameras that we work with shoot in a very flat picture profile, so that means that it's up to you in post-production to bring all the colors to life. So, versus just taking a camera that you get like a digital SLR Canon or whatever and it's just on a standard picture profile which is very saturated, it's very sharp, there's a lot of contrast. I like to have all of that control with me in post-production versus just having the camera assume this is what I want. So it shoots a little bit more flatter. It almost looks like there's kind of like a haze over your footage when you see it for the first time. You can YouTube it if you just look at it like flat picture profiles or like red cinema raw footage, whatever, if you see that you're like, whoa, that looks terrible. It's because the data within that footage is so full I should say of data within that video codec that when you take it into your video editor there's a lot of play and pull at the skin tones, the background, the black levels, the white levels, all that stuff, the mid-tones, all that kind of stuff is there for you to be able to pull at and adjust exactly the way you want it. So that's what I like to start with but then that means that it's up to me to make sure I get my skin tones right, my highlights, my mid-tones, my black levels right. I don't want anything too contrasty. So with somebody with black hair, it's important that I'm making sure that I have enough highlight on them with my lighting during production that when I add my black levels, or adjust my black levels to have a little bit more contrast on my footage, I'm not making their hair just look like a dome of just solid black. There still needs to be texture in the hair. So you can take it too hard core, right? And that's a quick and easy way of knowing whether or not you took something too far within your black levels or your contrast, is if you start to see that kind of just flat out look on your black levels. Same thing with white. The hardest time you'll have this happen to you is if like you're trying to shoot outside on a sunny day is when you'll see if you have things slightly exposed differently from your individual to the background or the sky, maybe your sky is like blown out and so to speak which means that like it's just like white. It's just like a solid blanket of white and there's no, you can't see the clouds, you can't see the blue sky, you can't see the blue sky, it's just white. So that same thing can happen to your white level as well. So it's a matter of like not taking things in any way necessarily too far and that's what I aim with within the corporate world. Within like, if I'm doing like a wedding production or something a little bit more funky, I'm gonna up my saturation levels a little bit. Maybe I'll add a little bit more contrast, a little bit more crunch. Maybe I'll influence the colors a little bit. So it's like I don't want the brides dress, maybe I want the brides dress to be, yeah it's a white, but it's an off white. It's like I have to pay attention to what off white that is. Depending on the scene, maybe they're getting married in an old church or something like that and there's a lot of like wood around. Well, I want that warmth to be portrayed in the scenes so I'm gonna add a little bit more of a yellow hue as opposed to a bit more of a blue. 'Cause if I crisp it up too much that wood just kinda looks flat and cold versus being warm and deep and brown and you only add just like a little bit of like yellow to your white levels so that the bride's dress is coming off again, like if you go the other way it'll be very blue on the side of white versus being slightly warm and gold just mildly. So it's like these little tweaks that you make that influence how a scene looks and I think for question wedding, that warmth is what you want to go for more than that cold side, that blue. You want to go a little bit more to the warm colors, like your oranges, reds, yellows, that kind of stuff, because again, it's all about love, like that warmth and kind of intimacy there, so yeah. That's kind of, you have to know what you're kind of making a video about, right? So I've done like, I've been in a steel mill, or like in a steel factory so it's like, in that kind of scene I'm going towards more of a bluer color because the metal looks kind of crisper and more solid and strong versus like warm and then because if you do that on concrete and metal it looks more dirty. So that kind of factory setting makes me want to go a little bit more blue so things look a little bit more crisp and clean versus that yellow which causes that almost dirtying effect. So it all depends on the scene and what you're working on. &lt;v - Definitely, definitely.&lt;/v &lt;v - But yeah, just paying attention.&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, so cool.&lt;/v I think like I have nothing more that I needed to share in regards to things that I do, like I can, and I think this is a totally different episode but I could like dive deep into what I do motion graphic wise, but it's not in so much of a staple to have, it's just more of how my approach, and I feel like it's a lot more technical. So, to save our viewers and listeners a lot of time, I think we'll just save that for another day because like I said, it's a lot more technical. Like I say when it comes to my style, I like to have things a little bit more organic. &lt;v - I was gonna say, you're more of that organic style&lt;/v and I think I try and do that with my footage is like make it more organic and real as opposed to disjointed or pull somebody into a grander kind of thing, right? So and you're the same way with your organic style. &lt;v - Yeah, and just like my motion I generally,&lt;/v using speed drafts and stuff, I like to have things have a little bit more of a, you know, come in fast and ease in or have a little balance or squeeze to it. Just to give it that more, like I said, more organic look to it. &lt;v - It's not as hard and rigid, right?&lt;/v &lt;v - Yeah, so and it's just a matter of how I time things out&lt;/v and I work on specific, like I don't do values at random. I work in increments of this motion will happen at 24 frames or it will be half a second, be in 12 frames or if I'm working on 60 frames, that's gonna be 30 frames or it will be three quarters of a second. So I kind of work like that, but-- &lt;v - You have your thing down to kind of like a science, right?&lt;/v Yeah, and that's why I'm saying, how I would kind of go about these things on the back end, I'd say more technical for that organic. So it's kind of funny now just saying that out loud where it's just like I have this very technical approach to a, to achieve an organic thing. &lt;v - Right, yeah.&lt;/v  &lt;v - Right?&lt;/v &lt;v - But you know because of history&lt;/v and because of what you've done in the past, you know that it works, right? It's like, I want to see that again, because this same rule applies to this same text that I'm creating, whatever. &lt;v - And I think what you just said right there is&lt;/v kinda the best way to wrap this episode up, is that it really, you gotta try things, especially if you're new. If you're new to this stuff it's just a matter of trying things and finding out what works and then applying that over and over and then as you keep applying those things it will, maybe it won't be so recognizable, but it might be, it depends on what those things are because you'll start applying it to everything so it has that reputation, but then at the same time you may start building on that and then it becomes a little bit more, it becomes a little bit more unique to your style, right? And that's applicable to both you personally or the brand, because regardless of you working on that content for said brand, it's gonna come through to the brand and then that brand is gonna adopt that style or that staple. &lt;v - And it's up to you, you gotta make sure&lt;/v that you're being honest and true to that brand, yeah. Are you guys like the hip-hop style of culture that like hip-hop backing tracks really fit your videos? Or is it something a little bit more subdued and a little bit more ambient, you know that just like has still that drive but it's less in your face and a little less "funky" per se, but more clean and professional. If you're like a finance institute or a bank or something you don't necessarily want a hip-hop track for the backing track of your testimonial for somebody or a user of your bank. It doesn't really make sense, right? So it's like kinda finding what you can do within your wheelhouse of your organization. &lt;v - Yeah, and the other thing too on top of that,&lt;/v and like, what's the saying, "Great artists steal.", something like that. By all means, like seek out that inspiration from what other people do and maybe not do exact carbon copies. &lt;v - But bring it into your repertoire,&lt;/v figure out how they do it so you can, it's like build it so you know how to like break it down, right? &lt;v - Yeah, exactly.&lt;/v Get inspired, get that influence, learn how they did it, tweak it, adapt on that and make it your own, right? &lt;v - That's right, bam!&lt;/v Love it! &lt;v - Make it your own.&lt;/v (laughing) All right, awesome. So yeah, so that wraps up today's episode. So yeah, get out there, establish your style and-- &lt;v - Yeah, have some fun.&lt;/v &lt;v - Make it your own.&lt;/v &lt;v - Bam, see you guys!&lt;/v &lt;v - Take care.&lt;/v &lt;v Mat Thanks for watching this episode&lt;/v of the Video Island Podcast brought to you by Vidyard. You can subscribe to the audio version on your favorite podcast platform or check out more videos here. (light, upbeat music) 