 I'm Biftu, I'm gonna be my fourth year at Augsburg I'm a marketing major. (interviewer) Can you tell us a little bit more about yourself and the identities that are more important to you? (Biftu) So I identify as an African-American. I've been in the U.S. my whole life, but my parents came to the U.S. from Ethiopia so I am African American but I was raised with a lot of Ethiopian culture as opposed to the U.S. culture. (Interviewer) And what has it been like to study in Mexico as an African-American student? (Biftu) Well initially, I don't know if I heard too many negative thoughts about being an African American person in Mexico so I had not a negative connotation that I was a little bit fearful for what they would think of me being so different color my skin the way my hair is everything and when I got here actually I felt none of that there was some questioning people oh I see you would like look at me but it was more in a way of "Oh! like this is something I haven't seen before" and not in a negative way at all I actually have like multiple people asked me to like take pictures with them when I'm out in like the city here just the streets I was at the grocery store, somebody asked to touch my hair so I think it's just they want to know more because they haven't seen anything like it before and it's not anything that's scary, or that I would be like fearful of anymore. (Interviewer) Ok, given your experiences, would you recommend studying abroad in Mexico, and if so, why? (Biftu) Um, I definitely would recommend studying abroad in Mexico because me being an African-American in the U.S. is different than me being an African-American here and I think it's important for myself and for other people to have that realization when I'm in the U.S. I'm treated differently than when I'm treated here and it only will help me more to know where I am and how I'll be treated in future situations in my life and also for the native people here maybe I'm the first African American they've seen and now they have that experience that they can use and improve with other African Americans they come across in their future experiences. (interviewer) What advice do you have for potential future African American students? (Biftu) Um, I would definitely say don't be scared there's nothing to be scared of, come with come here with a open set of eyes and definitely be be down to do things and experience things that are native to here that you wouldn't necessarily have the experience to do at home. That being said, trust your gut if you feel anything my if you feel like you don't want to do something you don't have to do something it's not that serious but it will only better your experience I think when you get to experience life in Mexico 