 IT Admins want to maximize availability and simplify troubleshooting when managing their servers. HPE OneView Compliance Dashboard provides a way to identify critical security updates and maintain consistent firmware and device driver baselines across the OneView management environment. By automating compliance reporting, HPE OneView helps users comprehend server configuration drift for supported Gen9 and Gen10 servers. In these next few steps, we will walk through how to quickly resolve a security warning from a firmware update. Here we are looking at a particular firmware baseline attached to a server located inside this Synergy Frame. To ensure configuration consistency, we select the firmware to see if HPE has released a new firmware update. On the left you can see a new firmware bundle has been installed into the HPE OneView firmware repository which shows version of 2018.06. The 'firmware compliance graphical illustration' gives us a quick view of the component updates, the severity contained within the new firmware bundle contents and how they relate to our HPE OneView managed environment. By hovering over the graphical widget bars, we can see the severity types, in this case 10 'optional' updates 36 'recommended' updates And 10 'critical' updates. Clicking on any part of the 'firmware compliance' widget, Navigates to the 'firmware compliance detail screen, where all the HPE OneView managed hardware is displayed for which an update is available, along with their proposed components which are listed in the new firmware bundle. Clicking on a specific hardware element, allows us to drill down and examine proposed firmware content details. In this instance we see 1 critical, 1 optional and 2 recommended updates on this particular server. We can quickly see the current installed firmware as well as the proposed update. Based on these updates there is an estimated update time which calculates the time staging begins to when it is complete. We can also filter based on criticality. For example, to see all recommended updates at once, we use the HPE OneView filters to isolate specific hardware or versions of firmware. In this environment we have 36 servers that have recommended updates. Now returning to the 'server profile dashboard', we will proceed to the OneView Server Profile page to make edits to a Server Profile to bring this server back into compliance. Looking at the details of the server selected, we see a server profile template has been assigned. The server profile template contains firmware and a device driver baseline that are the most current. Select 'update from template' from the 'actions' menu. HPE OneView automatically detects any updates needed on the template to bring the server back into compliance. Click to review the updates recommended. The update suggest we change the firmware version based on the template. Select yes to proceed. HPE OneView begins its update process by performing an initial validation. With the update complete, we see on the 'server profile page' the server in BAY 4, has now had its firmware bundle applied to the server hardware. Navigating to the OneView Dashboard, we can see the firmware compliance widget is integrated into our main dashboard which makes it convenient to update critical firmware when needed. With HPE OneView we can quickly identify configuration drift, by leveraging the firmware compliance widget and quickly bringing our environment back into compliance in just a few steps. 