 I have been inundated with phone calls about how to deploy VDI infrastructure in these challenging times  of being held at home and can't get out, can't go back to work,  can't go to the office. Synergy is going to make your IT operations  much more efficient. Let me give you an example. One of our customers, an electronics company, had two different teams. The rack team was working diligently for a month  to get their POC up and running. And, our Synergy guy, he said, "Why don't you come over this afternoon? We will see what we can do with Synergy". He was able to stand up their POC in an afternoon. We have three different frame solutions in Synergy for VDI. One that will support between about 720 and about 1300 users in a single frame, one that will handle double that in a two-frame solution  and one that will handle as many as 3500 to 3800 users  in a three-frame solution. But there are places where VPN technology don't work as well as Virtual Desktop Infrastructure.  There are three basic use cases where VDI Technology is going to be superior over a VPN.  The first one is any time you have a client/server application. That means that you have  a database running on a server and you have an application running on a client on the network. The second situation is dealing with regulatory compliance. One of the things that you want to do, especially  when you start dealing with healthcare and HIPPA, with finance and Gramm-Leach-Bliley,  VISMA and some of these regulatory structures is that, if the data is compromised,  or lost, or stolen, there are fines, lawsuits,  lots of expense in fixing that. Finally, if you are doing heavy graphics,  CAD, finite element analysis, Oil & Gas exploration, those files  tend to be big, they tend to be complex and your model load times are going to go from maybe 20 or 30 seconds in a data center to half an hour to an hour out on a VPN. You are running on a Synergy-based platform.  Whether you are running on a DL 388, DL 360, an Apollo 2000, or you are running VPN across an Aruba network, we have the broadest and most sophisticated set of server and networking based-options  available anywhere. 