 Hi, I am Doug De Werd. I am a Product Manager in the HPE OneView team. I want to talk to you today about VMware  and management integration with HPE OneView. So VMware administrators are vital to keeping a company's virtual environment up and running,  but one of the challenges they have is that there are so many tools they need to do their job,  and this results in a sometimes complex environment and causes a steep learning curve  because of all these tools. It also causes a lack of consistency in things like OS deployments and updates, and eventually you really get a limited visibility into the overall IT infrastructure health and management. So the bottom line is that there is too many disconnected tasks  that decrease productivity. One way that you can improve the efficiency  of management is with HPE OneView. HPE OneView and HPE Synergy provide the foundation for software-defined infrastructure and  an automation engine that can improve the overall lifecycle management of your HPE infrastructure. And as an extension of that, there are HPE OneView integrations  or what we call plug-ins. Through VMware, these expose the OneView functionality directly from the VMware consoles, and this reduces complexity because you get to use the familiar VMware tools that you use every day. So HPE provides plug-ins for several of the VMware tools. So we provide plug-ins for vCenter, for vRealize Log Insight, for vRealize Orchestrator, and vRealize Operations Manager and these provide direct integration into the respective user interfaces.  So what this gives you is an simplifyed administration. You have got a single console access to both HPE information combined with VMware information in the same screens. You reduce your downtime because you have better visibility into the health. You get alerts, so you know when things are going wrong. One of the  neat things we can do is a fabric visualization. So you can see the connections  from the virtual machine all the way through the HPE infrastructure and all the way out to your top-of-rack switch. You can do consistent and repeatable bare metal server deployments and non-disruptive rolling firmware  updates so that part of the life cycle management of installing and maintaining helps to maintain the stability and reliability of your infrastructure and with things like Log Insight, you can do trend analysis for performance and health as well as automation with Orchestrator for automated common HPE infrastructure configuration tasks, and the best thing is that these plug-ins are licensed with HPE OneView and HPE Synergy,  so there is no additional cost. Let's talk about a couple of use cases. As I mentioned, there is this fabric visualization and we have something called the network diagram. What this lets you do  is map out from a virtual machine all the way through  the physical, the logical, and the virtual interconnects, so that you can map the pathway that data flows into and out of a VM from both the virtual side as well as the physical side and all the way out to your top-of-rack switch.  What this lets you do is make sure that you have your redundancy set up right.  It's easy to visualize this, and it maps out the information across so that you don't have to keep track of this in spreadsheets and things like that. With a quick view you can have an overall diagram  of how the network is set up. Another thing that we are concerned with is what we call Configuration Drift. And Configuration Drift is where you may start off with a cluster that's working fine and over time,  certain configuration changes get made, and that will get changed back, and you end up with a cluster that isn't configured the same way on every host.  So we can do a check for that that compares the definition in the OneView Server Profile Template to the actual network configuration on all the other configuration items specified in the template. What this check will do is identifying mismatches and give you the option to apply recommended actions or fixing consistencies. You can also use this in a creative way to perform a  non-disruptive firmware update. What you would do is go into the template and specify a new firmware baseline that would apply to all the cluster hosts.  When you run the check again, it's going to say, "Hey, all these cluster hosts are mismatched. They don't have the same baseline as the template". And  there is an applied recommended action button. You click on that and it would launch into a rolling non-disruptive firmware update on the entire cluster. High availability in VMs is very important.  VM has a feature called Proactive HA and HPE OneView has a Proactive HA provider.  And what this lets you do is migrate VM workloads based  on server hardware health. So an example of this would be:  I have a server that has two power supplies and one of those power supplies fails. The VMs are  still running, the server hasn't gone down. But now I am no longer redundant from a power supply perspective. And so I am at risk that if that second power supply were to fail, I would certainly lose the workloads that are running in those VMs. What this does it will automatically migrate those VMs [inaudible] migrations [inaudible] company downtime, non-disruptive to the workloads and put those over on another healthy host in the cluster and put the older server in the maintenance mode so that you could fix that. But you don't have the risk of losing the workloads that were running and exposed on the server that had the failure. So the HPE plug-in for VMware really expand the power of OneView directly into the tools you use every day.  So it's in vSphere for having server and infrastructure combined with the VMware information.  It is automation done through Orchestrator, if it's Log, come through Log Insight  or watching a resource utilization assisting with problem resolution  in Operations Manager. All of these are going to help you  be more productive with the tools that you use every day. So to get more information,  you can contact HPE or your channel partner rep. There is a couple of links here for product information,  for documentation and for download. If you already have HPE OneView or Synergy,  you can download plug-ins today to explore how they can help you manage  your VMware environment. If you're not using OneView yet,  you can download a 60-day trial to get started in your transformation to an automated software-defined infrastructure. Thank you. 