 Hello. I am Joe Hardy. I am a  compute solution architect at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. And hello. I am Nick Dyer. I am a storage solutions architect at HPE Storage. Today, we are going to talk to you about how you can scale and grow composable infrastructure using HPE Synergy and HPE Storage Solutions. To start with, I am going to take you through the HPE Synergy solution and also the foundational principles of composable infrastructure, which we have got written up here. The main key principles of composable infrastructure are that we use fluid resource pools of infrastructure for storage, compute and networking, where that infrastructure could be returned to those pools when it has served a useful purpose. Everything within the infrastructure is defined in software, rather than hardware configuration. We use a single API to access everything, and it is an environment that can scale and grow to suit the requirements of a particular custom application. And also we have full stack analytics across the board. So, Joe, can you tell me what we have on the screen here? Because we have got a couple stacked in, and then we have got some over here. So what do we have? So this represents a Synergy environment with five frames. The way that we usually scale a Synergy environment is through the deployment of Virtual Connect fabrics within the frames. You typically have two frames with a master module  in each, and these will be stacked together so that we have got easy connectivity between them, and then we have some additional frames that contain the satellite modules that connect back into the capability within those master modules. So these additional satellite frames connect back over special cabling to the master modules and allow us to scale in a more linear way. They connect both master modules, so we get an architecture  that looks a lot like this. We have the OneView technology, which then orchestrates and composes all of the frames as one fluid resource pool of technology. That is right. To OneView and to all external resources beyond Synergy, this appears as one logical enclosure. This is one giant blade chassis in some respects, with 60 base, spread across five physical frames. It removes all of the infrastructure single points of failure. It gives us a distributed architecture for connecting into external fabrics, and it also allows us to scale a very broad east-west fabric domain, which is increasingly important in virtualization workloads, container-based workloads and the modern applications we see in the Datacenter. And what we typically see, day in, day out is the technology is built on deployed in silos. So we are not building silos in this environment. That is right. Because when you build silos of infrastructure, you end up with pockets of resources that you just cannot access for any reason, compute, networking, or even storage. From the storage element using HPE Nimble Storage, we can completely remove this idea of silos using something that we call Scale To Fit. So you can see here that I have got a system that I have drawn and that system could be a generation of Nimble platform, it could be ISCSI,  it could be Fibre Channel based, it could also be all-Flash, or it could be hybrid. Let's say that we start off with a single Synergy frame with a hybrid flash storage platform, and over time, as businesses grow and as new projects come on, you are going to scale more compute and grow out your Composable Fabric. With this environment here, you can now scale this platform in any way, much like you can do with your compute platform.  You can change the CPU to increase more performance, you can add more capacity to it should you want to, to increase capacity or what you could do is you can scale out up to four arrays together in a group, a logical grouping of platforms together, much like we are doing here and they could be all-flash, Hyper-flash, they could be older generations and they could be new generations. You are not restricted to a silo or  a piece of technology. And the benefit of all of this, of course, is OneView is your orchestrator. So you can now scale computing storage linearly to whatever you need to within your business and not by part pods or silos of infrastructure. So, Nick, this is an architecture that can scale out and scale up? Well, we say it is Scale To Fit because it is scale up, scale out, and scale deep, and scale deep could be for essentially changing the arrays CPU on the platform if you need more performance so we don't have to scale out to add more performance, you don't have to throw more drives at it to scale performance. You just logically change the CPUs in the array. The benefit of that now means that it is modular. You are not buying something that is a frame-based architecture that you have to grow like this. You have got something that could scale whichever you need too much like your compute. This is how we have been doing compute with Composable for the last few years. That is right, because this represents that sort of scale up of a single logical enclosure, but I could absolutely grow in pairs of master frames if that made more sense for those architectures. Takes away that restriction doesn't it? Yeah, and the one thing that then everyone always says is: Well, what about my management domain for this? So the benefit of all of this is the one snap-in to the OneView architecture. So that is a really good point. You have got OneView set over here and that is something that can be communicating with all of these different arrays that you have scaled out with, with arrays that have been grown in capacity. And it is controlling the master modules and the master frames within that environment. In fact, quite often we would actually provision OneView inside these master frames. It would run on appliances within that environment. This isn't something that you have to have as a separate construct, and it is OneView that provides that one API part of the composable infrastructure storage. And this is completely software-defined. We are not hardware defined by any of this. So there is a truly software-defined architecture from top to bottom, and end to end. Storage, scales like this. We can move storage around across the platforms on the fly. OneView can be the orchestrator with the policies and the profiles. That then becomes a logical pool of resources for your compute fund to go and use, for virtualization container-based workloads, database workloads and other technologies that you use. Absolutely. So that is it. That is an example of its scaling. We have discussed how InfoSight provides those full stack analytics across the board, and you can see here the flexibility and the ability to turn resources back to the pool when you have finished consuming them. So those are those five principles we defined at the start around composable infrastructure, and that is how they get realized in this platform. If you'd like to learn more, please check out the description below, where you will find some links to additional resources, or contact your HPE representative. Thank you very much. 