 Caution, to avoid overheating your Storage System you have 30 minutes to reinstall the repaired controller node once the controller node has been removed from its bay. Attach your EDS wrist strap to an unpainted surface of the enclosure or rack. Caution, to prevent data loss, confirm that the SAS data cabling provides a redundant path to all of the enclosures from the healthy node. Confirm that the UID Locate LED is solid blue on the node to be removed. This indicates that it is safe to remove. Confirm that all the cables attached to the node are labeled, noting their locations. If not labeled, label them with node, slot, and port information. Remove the Ethernet cable from the management port by pressing the release tab and disconnecting the cable. Remove all fiber cables by pulling out the long tab underneath the SFP and disconnecting the SFP with the fiber cables attached. Remove SAS cables by grasping the cable connector, pushing inward while pulling the long tab above the connector to release the cable from the port, and then disconnecting the SAS cable. Fully loosen both captive thumbscrews that secure the controller node handles to its enclosure bay. If too tight, use a Torx T15 screwdriver to loosen. Open both controller node handles simultaneously to disengage the node from the enclosure backplane and partially slide the node out if its bay. Caution, the node is long and heavy, be prepared. While making sure that all cables are out of the way, support the node from underneath and carefully slide it out of its bay in the node enclosure. Place the removed node onto the flat, anti-static surface nearby. Remove the top cover by pressing the black plastic release tabs on both sides of the top cover near the rear. Slide it back until it stops and lift the top cover up and off the node. Note: On the inside cover of the node, you will find a map that displays the locations of the Boot Drives, DIMMS, and node coin battery. An installed adapter card may need to be removed to access the Node Boot Drive. Single processor nodes will only contain a Boot Drive in the Boot Drive one position shown here on the map. On dual processor nodes, the Boot Drive will be in the zero or one position. Remove any adapter card blocking access to the Node Boot Drive by fully loosening the single captive thumbscrew that secures the adapter card, using a Torx T10 screwdriver if it's too tight, and then carefully pull on the captive thumbscrew to unseat and remove the adapter card. Loosen and carefully remove the P1 Phillips head screw that secures the M2 NVMe Boot Drive to the node board. Use care, and if available, a magnetized screwdriver, to avoid dropping the screw. Lift the Boot Drive just enough to be able to grasp it, and then pull it out of its M2 slot and place into a static dissipative bag. Note: If the replacement Boot Drive is a different length, the standoff for the securing screw will need to be relocated from one hole to another. Carefully remove the replacement Boot Drive from its static dissipative bag. Align the notch in the board with the key in the M2 slot. Gently, but firmly insert the Boot Drive into the M2 slot and lower over the securing hole, which should align. If it doesn't align, remove and reinsert the Boot Drive. Replace the P1 Philips head screw to secure the replacement Node Boot Drive. If removed earlier, replace the adapter card: Carefully align and slide in the adapter card and press firmly to fully seat it. Note, you may need to press very firmly to fully seat some adapter cards. Tighten the thumbscrew to secure the adapter card. Replace the top cover by aligning the tabs in the front of the cover with the notches in the front of the chassis. Lower the cover and slide it forward to secure. Caution, clear the area in front of the empty bay of any cables that might get snagged or damaged during re-installation of the controller node. With its release levers in their open position, carefully align and slide the node into its bay until its release levers begin to engage. Close the release levers to fully seat the node into the enclosure backplane. Fully tighten both thumbscrews to secure the node to the enclosure. Replace all the cables that were removed earlier, making sure that each cable is in the same location and fully connected. 