 Welcome to another episode of IT Insights. Today I've got a very interesting character with me, John Carter. I always think about John as being the go-to man to talk about Composability. So, Composability is with us for about two years now? Just about. Just over two years. Yeah. So, tell me a little bit more about... is it really fact or fiction? Where is the sweet spot with composability? Yes, I think a lot of people get freaked out by Composability and they think of it as this kind of very outer worldly thing that they've never used in their life. But, I mean, Composability is really about operational efficiencies. It's about being able to take resources that used to be stranded in an environment, and using them in ways that you never could before. And so what we see is our customers actually using this day to day  without even thinking about it. It's just part of what they wanna do.  So tell me a little bit more about that. You talked about stranded infrastructure.  What does that really mean? I've got, I've got a rack server full of racks. There's my infrastructure. How could that be stranded?  So I mean, infrastructure has always been siloed. If you have rack servers, if you have an array of storage, if you've got network switches, they're all managed by different people, and they're all kind of stuck in those boxes that they were bought in. What Composability really allows you to do is to break out of those silos and share things across the boundaries like you couldn't before. We use things like the concept of a logical enclosure where you're breaking down even from the BladeSystem world. You're breaking down what used to be stuck in a chassis over almost multiple racks of infrastructure, and you can share those resources anywhere. So, it removes those resources at my disposal. Exactly! Pools, are like we say fluid resources because they can't just be a big box of resource. It has to be able to move around to be reprovisioned wherever it's needed. So what does that really allow me to do? So, now I have access to, as opposed to something stranded, now I've got a pool. How would that work? How would I get access to that pool of resources. So, HPE OneView allows you to do that provisioning for us. It's the intelligence behind the scenes that lets you really tell the system where that infrastructure is needed. And what's gonna boil down to for our customers is cost savings and speed of delivery. So being able to deliver value to their customers much quicker. So tell me a little a little bit, you mentioned OneView. All right, so what is that? I know it's a management infrastructure.  It's the kernel of everything composable? It's really an orchestration layer. And we like to say it's the brains behind Synergy and Composability in general. What it does is it allows you to do two things, and the first one is to use the GUI and go in and use templates and profiles to do a very standardized automated process in terms of, I can be very easily repeatable and remove a lot of the guesswork and human error out of setting up infrastructure. How do you do that, though? So don't close up on that. You talk about being able to templatize something. Is that meaning that I can reuse it? You can reuse it multiple times, and that's the beauty is it's almost a stamp of exactly how you'd like your infrastructure. But look, you set it up once, you have all your different teams come in and bless that, and really say, you know, this is the exact settings we want. And then any time I need to roll out similar infrastructure, I just go and do that. And it's not just a day zero thing, either. When you're going back and doing life cycle updates, you can use the same templates to roll out far more updates or other things very quickly, very easily, very automated. That sounds like you got a pretty interesting way of avoiding all there errors that Cuban people might, people like me might make in the infrastructure. Now you've got a templatized something. I can deploy it. I can deploy it again and again. So where is... is there a story about  removing errors from the datacenter as well? There definitely is. I mean, we do everything we can to remove the possibility of going in and making manual errors. And whether that's with our tools or whether that's using the API that underlies OneView to go out to the tool chain that customers already use. We really make that flexible to whatever they wanna do. Okay, so we talked about OneView. We kind of talked about composability. Tell me a little bit more about Synergy. Synergy we've had on the market you just said for about two years. I'm hearing rumours that it is a pretty fast growing infrastructure. We're doing very well. So we've got more than 3000 customers out there today utilizing the Synergy infrastructre. It's really the first infrastructure that we've built from the ground up with Composability in mind. And what that means for us is that the hardware itself is intelligent and flexible to be able to flex with these templates and profiles and share the hardware resources across different boundaries. So do you see it as being a replacement Blade infrastrcuture, or do you think it really is a brand new form of insfrastructure that these 3000 customers had deployed? Yeah, I mean it's both. So a lot customers buy this as a Blade replacement, and it works fantastically for that. And what we're finding is as they start to evolve that process, they pull more and more of these composable features into their day to day tasks. Okay, that's cool. So it's so people are not... I've heard some customers like, like DreamWorks as an example, they had a really good example, but that was, that was a pretty big step forward for them. But, I'm thinking other customers are probably not making quite that leap on their first implementation. Sure. And they do a lot of really cool things in terms of being able to change their workload very quickly. Other customers, though, are taking advantage of those same benefits just on a lifecycle management kind of perspective. So when they go in and they have to do the new patch for VMware, the newest patch for Red Hat or whatever it may be, they get to use those same feature sets, even if they don't think of that as being composable. Just allows them to do things quickly and efficiently and go focus on other things. So what about..., all right, so this is kind of cool. This is the here and now. I'm also hearing about new products that are coming on to the market. Things like Composable Cloud, Comosable Fabric. Where... how does that fit into... this new family of... A lot of great innovation going on here at HPE. So Composable Fabric has been a great addition for us in terms of looking at the aggregation level switch, where now we can take that meshed fabric and where we have a logical enclosure set up with the Synergy frames we can basically extend that to the entire Datacenter. What they allow you to do is to dynamically allocate bandwidth in your fabric, and it's intelligent enough to understand what this different traffics are and guarantee service on them. Okay, so it sounds like it is rippling across. Where you had a bladed composable infrastructre, now it's moving across to a wider set. Exactly. We continue to expand. And whether that's out to the new HPE Primera or 3PAR, whether that's out to different fabric options, we have a number of different products that are coming out and becoming part of that composable family. Okay. All right. So, as we kind of get to the end of this session, tell me if you've got a really good example of a customer using Composability. Oh, I've got tons of them. So we're actually just up with our good friends at Advocate Aurora Health Care. They are rolling out Synergy within their environments, and it's made their lives much simpler in terms of how they provision new infrastructure, how they'd meet security standards within their environment, and then just basically how they deal with everyday tasks. Hey John, that was great. Thanks for all the information on Composability and where you're taking it in the future. Thank you, Chris. For more information about Composability and OneView, all these kind of cool things that John's been talking about, visit our website. Thanks for tuning in today. 