 Manually provisioning servers takes a significant amount of time, increasing the risk of human error and creating inconsistencies across servers. HPE OneView enables IT admins to automate provisioning with repeatable templates that ensure high reliability, consistency, and control.   Let’s create a server profile template, so we can use this to deploy our servers consistently and automatically apply changes from the profile across our environment. From the main menu of HPE OneView, select server profile templates then create server profile template. Begin by selecting a name for our sever profile template so we can easily find it in our server profile template library later on. From here we are able to choose any compliant hardware type from the available hardware list we have previously configured. We can choose any firmware version in the HPE OneView library from the simple pull-down menu. Navigate to the ‘connections’ section using the top bar or using the scroll bar. We have three options. In the network set we want to select exact match. This is important, so if any network changes are made, we will get an alert in HPE OneView to say the network does not match the server profile template. We will then be able to remediate the changes quickly from the HPE OneView console. Now we create the network connections When using a fibre channel connection, we choose a name, then choose a network or network set applicable for the template from the existing networks. For additional connections, click 'add +' and follow the same sequence. After finished adding connections select 'add.' Our defined network connections are visible here, and these settings will be maintained each time across compute, networking and storage resources when this server profile template is deployed. HPE OneView server profile templates enable IT admins to provision physical, virtual, and containerized host systems for application owners faster than ever! Because IT spends less time setting up and configuring hardware, developers can accelerate their application creation. 