 No matter if it’s about brewing beer, mixing colors, producing medicine, or assembling mobile phones, planes and cars … … everybody is talking about digitalization, digital transformation, digital enterprises … But how do you do it? Where do you start? What’s the best way to do it? Does anyone know all that and can help? Siemens has turned the digital enterprise into a management issue and has quite something to offer. Not only hardware and software, but especially energetic service experts who are there from day one onward, with deep know-how and a lot of passion. We call that: Services for the Digital Enterprise Digital Enterprise Services It’s all about consulting machine builders and industrial companies from all industries, implementing and continuously optimizing awesome digital solutions. In short: *giggle* achieving success in three steps. In practical terms, this means that our service experts analyze the degree of digital maturity of a company, create road maps, generate digital twins of machines, plants, and entire factories, simulate operation, and commission everything in a virtual environment as well as in the real world, implement Industrial Edge technology, establish connectivity to the cloud, continuously optimize plant efficiency – increasingly so with the help of artificial intelligence – and are always working flat out. Do you want proof? What we implement for our customers, we also use in our own factories – that’s for sure. For example, in Manufacturing Fürth, in the beautiful city of … Fürth. Here, we manufacture special products in small batches. That’s why we require super high flexibility in production, and everything must be super-fast – with maximum quality, of course. In order to make sure this works, we transformed Manufacturing Fürth into a digital enterprise – in the three known steps: 1 What function does the greatest factory serve, if it isn’t secure? That’s why our security experts screened all processes, identified security gaps and closed them. Everything went like clockwork. Now we hold the highest industrial security. 2 Thanks to the small production batches, many different products are transported in boxes. Over and over again we wondered: Where is box X – or lets just call it “Heidi”? You have no idea how much time and effort it takes to find Heidi everytime … So, our service experts came up with something extraordinary: They created a digital twin of the production hall, simulated the path of the boxes through production, analyzed it and found a solution. Today, each box has an RTLS tag – this stands for real-time locating system. This also applies to Heidi. As soon as a box enters the hall, our system realizes it and determines its position with centimeter precision. This way we can always see where Heidi presently is. 3 As all of us know, there’s always room for improvement. At Manufacturing Fürth, we focused on an entire production line. Our goal: reducing open solder joints. We collected process data, locally optimized it with edge computing, and analyzed it in the cloud with the help of algorithms. Thanks to root-cause analysis, we now can identify and fix sources of error. This way we increase product quality and overall equipment effectiveness, OEE. These were just a few of the countless things that the experts of Digital Enterprise Services are doing. These were just a few of the countless things that the experts of Services for the Digital Enterprise Services are doing. They just understand how digitalization is working. Benefit from it as well. Because your digital transformation matters 