 Hey guys, huddle up! It's time for another Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. In this Chalk Talk, we're gonna look at the Intelligent Data Platform. Let me set up the discussion. At HPE, we see the dawn of the intelligence era. The flash era brought a speed with flash. Flash is now table stakes. The cloud era brought new levels of agility and everyone expects as-a-service experiences going forward. The intelligence era, with an AI driven experience for infrastructure operations, and AI enabled unlocking of insights, is poised to catapult businesses forward. Wo the intelligent era will see the rise of the intelligent enterprise. The enterprise will be always on, always fast, always agile to respond to different challenges, but most of all the intelligent enterprise will be built for innovation. Innovation that can unleash new service revenue streams and business models. So why does intelligence matter? For several reasons and let's look at a few areas that intelligence can have an impact: First is the complexity associated with infrastructure management. You can have a very performant and reliable storage platform but that's addressing a fraction of the problem. Greater than 90%  of issues arise from above the storage layer with servers, networking, and virtualization stack issues impacting overall availability and performance of apps. There are 100s of variables that can contribute to application disruption. This is a problem way too complex for humans to solve. Next is hybrid cloud complexity. Let's face it, cloud hasn't made things easier you know. You need a mix of clouds both private on-premises as well as public cloud. The big question is what's the most appropriate placement for your workload. Today you operate blind and without intelligence. This challenge is also too complex for humans to solve! Intelligence is key to data management. Data has a lifecycle that has been fragmented and there are a variety of siloed systems and tools. How do you know what's the optimal place for data to live during each step of the lifecycle or even how many secondary copies or backup copies exist? And guess what this is also far too complex for humans to solve. One more area: intelligence is key for extracting value from your data. Let me give you a number: 40 zettabytes! That's the amount of data that is predicted to be created by the year 2020 and most of all that will be on the edge by IoT devices. Answering how you store that data but more importantly unlock hidden insights to drive competitive advantage will be key. Everything you do is underpinned by data and it's the heart of your application workloads. Every enterprise will need to have an intelligent data strategy where your data is always on and always fast, automated and on-demand, hybrid by design, and applies global intelligence for visibility and lifecycle management. Our strategy is to deliver an intelligent data platform that turns your data challenges into business opportunities. It begins with workload optimized composable systems for multiple workloads. And we deliver cloud services for a hybrid cloud environment so that you can seamlessly move data throughout its lifecycle. I'll have more on this in a moment. The global intelligence engine infuses the entire infrastructure with intelligence. It starts with predicting and proactively resolving issues before they occur. It creates a unique workload fingerprint and these workload fingerprints combined with global learning enable us to drive recommendations to keep your app workloads and supporting infrastructure always optimized and delivering predictable speed. We have a REST API first strategy and offer pre-built automation connectors. We bring app-aware protection for both traditional and modern new stack application workloads. And you can use the intelligent data platform to build and deliver flexible Big Data and AI pipelines for driving real-time analytics. Let's take a quick look at the portfolio of workload optimized composable systems. these are systems across mission-critical, general-purpose workloads as well as secondary data and solutions for the emerging big data and AI applications. Because our portfolio is built for the cloud, we offer comprehensive cloud data services for both production workloads and backup and archive in the cloud. HPE InfoSight provides the global intelligence across the portfolio and we give you flexibility of consuming these solutions as a service with HPE GreenLake. I want to close with one more thing: the HPE intelligent data platform has three main attributes and we'll cover this deeper in a future Chalk Talk. First it's AI- driven. It removes the burden of managing infrastructure so that IT can focus on innovating and not administrating. Second it's built for cloud and it enables easy data and workload mobility across hybrid cloud environments so that you can run any workload, anywhere that aligns to your business priorities. Finally, the intelligent data platform delivers an as-a-service experience so you can be your own cloud provider. to learn more go to hpe.com/IntelligentData Always love to hear from you on Twitter where you can find me as @CalvinZito. You can find my blog at hpe.com/storage/blog. Until next time thanks for joining me on this Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. 