 Hi I'm Andrew McDade. Business lead for Software Defined Compute, HPE UK and I. I'm Mike Reid and I'm Tony Lewis and we've been involved in the creation, mixing and production of TV and film music for about the last twenty years HPE Composable Cloud is a suite of technology. It brings the best of HPE's infrastructure, brings the best of HPE's software and management tools, and also it's multi cloud technologies to deliver a suite of technologies where a customer can ultimately choose  what is right for their environment and the direction they're taking as an organisation. We've been asked by Hewlett Packard Enterprise to score the idea of digital transformation. And to create the sound of the HPE Composable Cloud. We decided to create this track because we believe there's a real duality between musical composition and how we compose IT infrastructure. What I tend to find is in some organisations they have certain skill sets, they have certain resource that's fantastic at doing a single, soloist type project around their infrastructure. Single instruments versus groups of  instruments can have very different tones, very different characteristics. A violin on its own is beautiful, but a group of violins in an orchestra can be sweeping and awesome. What we're trying to achieve and what we're trying to help organisations to do is compose all areas of their infrastructure so they can harmonise and move forward as one. Certain instruments work really well together and part of composition is trying to find those groups of sounds and ideas that work and avoiding those that don't. We all in the industry talk about digital transformation. Transformation for me is different for every organisation. What we're trying to demonstrate with the track that we've created is actually the harmonisation of infrastructure; the harmonisation of technology, people and economics. And you'll see that underlying tone as the music builds through the piece that we've composed. We believe we've created the perfect sound to represent the silos of infrastructure; be it data, compute or networking. We've added in that software layer and then we've used the automation and orchestration of our management tools to create the sound the HPE Composable Cloud. Welcome to the HPE Digital Symphony. Now you've heard what we believe is the perfect sound. What does your infrastructure sound like? 