 Hi. My name is Henry Baltazar.  I am a Research VicePresident at 451 Research and my area of coverage  is storage. The on-premises cloud experience is an important part of an intelligent data strategy. When we start looking at public cloud,  with public cloud, one of the main things that it has done, it has changed customer expectations, in terms of how fast we can get resources delivered.  As a result, there is a couple of things we need to make sure we are doing  to provide a cloud experience on the on-premises side. For one thing,  we need to have workload-optimized elasticity. And by that, we need to make sure  that resources are elastic in terms of not only capacity, but also in terms of performance. So we are delivering the right levels of resources that match the needs of the workload. Let's keep in mind what's going on with rapid-provisioning environment creation. With the advent of DevOps and CSED  type frameworks, we need to make sure that we are able to deliver these resources in a quick and consistent manner, which is why we are going to need to have that improved rapid provisioning. Finally, the other thing we have to think about is how to resolve this all as-a-service.  Going forward, a lot more organizations are looking to move away from CapEx and more towards OpEx expending, and as a result, we need to make sure that whatever type of resource we deployed, we are going to work well with these OpEx type models. On-premises will still be favorite for a variety of different workloads. Legacy applications, when we talk to organisations, it's clear that for these applications, some of them will be less likely to be moving to a public cloud environment and will stay on-premises.  If one thing, if you have an application that's already running efficiently  in a steady state and an application that doesn't need the elasticity cloud, it may make more sense to leave these things on-premises because you are already able to run these in an efficient matter.  Next thing to keep in mind is mission-critical type of applications. If the organization is already invested in the infrastructure and procedures to run these mission-critical applications in a resilient manner, it might not make sense to redo these things and try to build them for a cloud-type environment. Finally, the other thing we need to keep in mind is non-virtualized apps. These applications will probably take a lot of effort to rewrite and refactor to move  to a cloud. And those are also things where, when we talk to organisations, they seem hesitant to move those to a cloud, instead of just leaving them on premises in that environment. Intelligence can help improve the  on-premises experience of cloud. In our most recent survey, we found that 75% of organizations felt that AI and ML enhanced tools would be able to help them simplify their IT management. When you think about these tools and what they could provide, there is a number of key benefits we are looking for. For one thing,  we want to see more improved efficiency for employees. As for most organisations I talked to, most of them are seeing their data growing at a much more rapid rate that their budget is growing and, as a result, we can't just count on throwing more people at a problem going forward. We need to make sure we are making those people more efficient. Another thing we are looking at in terms of AI/ML enhanced benefits is that ability to help reduce the number of incidents, specifically the ability of AI and ML tools to be able to cut down the number of false positives that organizations need to deal with on a daily basis.  Just going to help improve their efficiency. Another thing we are going to to think about  is also faster remediation. With AI and ML enhanced tools we will have the ability  to be able to find and resolve these problems quicker to make sure that our environment is much more resilient and that services are being delivered in an adequate manner. Finally, the other key thing that we are actually looking for is a reduction of costs. That's where I believe AI and ML enhanced capacity planning will come to play because that will help us make sure that we are buying the right resources at the right time and not unnecessarily wasting resources. An intelligent data platform can help organisations overcome a number of key issues. When I talk organizations today,  a lot of them are really struggling with how they are going to reduce complexity  in terms of management and tuning. I think that's where we are going to need  intelligent storage systems to be able to help us with that burden. For one thing, a lot of these organizations are complaining that their IT staff  is more reactive than proactive. That, to me is a clear sign that we need to have stronger insights to be able to help these staffers make sure they are a step ahead so that they can keep up with what's going on with their workloads going forward. Another thing that we also ned to talk about  with organizations is their drive towards getting to automation. An intelligent storage system needs to be able to help us with automation because, going forward, automation is the only way we will be able to keep up with changing workloads, especially as these workloads grow at a rapid pace, it's going to be impossible for us to keep up with just using manual tools in that regards. And that's why I believe organizations need to make sure they are putting a focus on implementing automation with their platforms. To build the cloud experience  on premises, there is a number of key considerations we have to take into account. For one thing, a lot of organizations say are starting to tend to move towards HCI-type platforms as a way to be able to optimize the virtualization and deliver a cloud-like experience for their on-prem environments.  Another key thing we are thinking about and looking at is the rise of containers.  Containers are going to be an important part of our infrastructure going forward, and we need to make sure whatever type of intelligent data platform we build going forward, has that ability to leverage and work with containers in an optimum manner. And finally, there is a lot of new interesting innovations taking place in terms of disaggregated and composable infrastructures. Those are also going to be very important  in terms of future requirements because those type of architectures will allow us to be able to take a better advantage of the resources we have deployed in our environments. 