 This is not just a server. Neither is this. Or this. This is an opportunity to press the reset button on your hybrid cloud. This is a shortcut to cybersecurity. This is a new level of performance tuned specifically for your workloads. This is intelligence. This is HPE ProLiant, the intelligent compute foundation for hybrid cloud. My IT teams were often overwhelmed, trying to figure out where and how best to deploy our workloads. What if you could automatically map your entire IT estate to better tune workloads and ensure you have the right hybrid cloud strategy? HPE ProLiant is built for the most demanding workloads and precisely matches server resources with requirements. No more trial and error server tuning. And Workload Performance Advisor provides real-time tuning recommendations that continually help improve your server's overall workload performance. I worry about security so the business doesn't have to and it might be the most important part of my job. That's the number one reason I chose HPE. 360 degree security starts at the silicon level with corruption-free manufacturing of the server and configuration locking during transit. (upbeat music) Rapid detection of a compromised server, even to the point of now allowing it to boot if it contains any malicious code, ensures healthy servers stay protected. After a security event has been solved automated recovery of the operating system and application and data connections provides the fastest path to normal operations. And when you're ready to recycle, sell back or retire, the removal of passwords and config settings prevents access to sensitive information. Dealing with manual technology to deploy and manage infrastructure is frustrating and time-consuming. HPE ProLiant deploys quickly and is easily managed alongside public cloud, with detailed insights into server status and operations. Provisioning and workflows are now automated with a programatic, software-defined approach to server composability. And you can optimize HPE ProLiants further with HPE InfoSight... an AI-driven tool that predicts and prevents problems before IT operations can be impacted. And all of these options can be delivered as a service with the flexibility of a pay-per-use consumption model, or via a traditional CapEx model, the choice is yours. (upbeat music) HPE ProLiant creates new possibilities for your IT and for your business. They advance innovation, uncover opportunity and help you consume smarter. It's time to push the industry forward again. It's time to choose intelligence. 