 So access to public cloud resources has really changed the game for a lot of small startups that are entering in new markets. They can just swipe a credit card and get complete application stacks in just a matter of minutes. So this means larger traditional enterprises have to respond just as quickly. That's really driving a fundamental change in the industry today. Customers are focused more on the way to consume technology and less operating it on their own. They have got so many different technologies that don't talk to each other. So they have got networking and storage and servers and public cloud and oftentimes, waiting through that can take a lot of time. Morpheus is a multi-cloud management platform but at it's heart, we help big enterprises act more like little bitty startups. Morpheus Data is a young company that provides a high degree of integration across multiple delivery models so customers can really adopt evolving technologies to help them drive faster go-to-markets for their application development teams and really streamline their DevOps operations. HPE has done a lot of work around composable infrastructure  in the last several years, so technologies like Synergy, like SimpliVity have really helped customers move a lot faster on their own on-premises data center. We have a common ecosystem of technology partners that Morpheus Data has worked closely with for many years, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise has worked with many of the same technology partners. Now we have a partnership in which we can bring those  ecosystem partners together. So there are a few key use cases where Morpheus and HPE partner together to help customers. First, there are companies who are just trying to get their arms around what they have. We can have them lower the cloud costs by optimizing their brownfield environments. Secondly, for companies that are trying to provision new applications very quickly, we can drop those provisioning times from weeks down to minutes then, ultimately, we are providing development team self service to request resources on-demand and get what they need, as they need it. There is been years of innovation that have gone into providing deep levels of integration with our HPE composable infrastructure, using our OneView solution with Morpheus Data. That provides the automation, the provisioning, the self-service that customers are using day to day in their data center and across their public clouds. The combination of Hewlett Packard Enterprise composable infrastructure with Morpheus Data cloud management capabilities really blends two industry leading solutions together to help drive efficiency, reduce operational costs and really enable customers to get market faster than  they are able to today. 