 Hey guys, huddle up. It's time for another  Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. In this ChalkTalk, I'm very happy  to introduce you to the new tier zero flash array that redefines  mission-critical storage, HPE Primera. If you want the agility of the public cloud but need the resiliency and speed of high-end storage for mission-critical applications, this forces a tradeoff of agility for resiliency.  High end storage is fast and reliable, but falls short on agility and simplicity. What if you could have it all? What if you could have both agility  and resiliency for your mission critical apps? If you look at the HPE  storage portfolio, we have assets that are easy to manage with  Nimble Storage, help predict and prevent application disruption  with InfoSight, and proven resilience and performance at scale, with 3PAR. We've realized we had an opportunity to bring these together to redefine mission-critical tier zero storage, introducing the world's  most intelligent storage for mission-critical apps,  HPE Primera. It delivers an on-demand experience so storage is instantly available. App-aware resiliency backed  with 100% availability guarantee. Predictive acceleration so apps aren't fast some  of the time, but fast all the time, with embedded AI. Let me tell you more about HPE Primera. It was engineered to drive unique value in high-end storage. There are four areas we focus on. Global intelligence, powered with the most  advanced AI for infrastructure, InfoSight. An all-active architecture with  multiple nodes for higher resiliency and limitless parallelization. A service-centric OS that eliminates the risk and simplifies management and timeless storage with the new ownership experience that keeps getting better. I could spend a ChalkTalk on each of these, but let's look at the highlights. We're extending InfoSight capabilities from the cloud to the datacenter, to embedded within Primera. That gives us the only  end-to-end AI pipeline for self-managing Storage. The big advantage is that our customers  can take advantage of cloud based learnings as well as get instant performance  insights for real time optimizations. I'm really excited about the embedded AI,  so let's look at that. There's an embedded AI engine to self optimize performance. We'll have anomaly and hotspot detection, estimate saturation, forecast system load, predict performance,  community learning and more. This is really a game changer. Next, let's look at the services-centric OS that is eliminating risk and simplifying management. Our OS is uniquely architected  as a service-centric OS. Traditional high-end platforms  like Dell EMC PowerMax have monolithic OSs where all the data services are tightly coupled together. This makes the upgrade process difficult and risky. In traditional monolithic designed, most customers delay updating their OSs in fear of a potential issue. HPE Primera is based on a services-centric OS, where every data service can be deployed, upgraded  and restarted independent of each other. This completely derisks  upgrades by allowing us to upgrade only specific services, and for the most part allows us to upgrade every service without needing a reboot of the nodes. This is absolutely unique in the high-end  and very valuable for customers. Our OS has been rewritten, preserving all  of the great data services that customers want, but shifting from a monolithic OS  to a micro-services based or modular based OS. Next is the all-active architecture  for screaming fast performance. Every volume intelligently accessing  every SSD, node, and port. Unlike PowerMax, where there's a one-to-one  mapping among one to an HPA, HPE Primera's all-active architecture allows  for way more parallelization, more threads for more IO to travel quickly to the host. This translates to our ability to deliver up to deliver up to 1.5 million IOPs  and 44 gigabytes per second bandwidth from a single 8U system. No tuning required. Every resource is always balanced. It delivers multi-tenancy at scale for QoS for latency and instant failover with true active-active for high resiliency, Primera will transform enterprise storage  ownership with all inclusive licensing, no forklift upgrades, the StoreMore Guarantee, free controller upgrade options and 100% availability guarantee. Did I just say 100%? Yes, 100% availability guarantee  that is standard for everyone. No special contract, no restrictive terms  and the best of all, no more downtime. HPE Primera is timeless. Let me show  you the HPE Primera portfolio. The Primera 630 is 2 nodes  and 24 drives in 2U form factor, and has expansion options for up to 240 drives.  The Primera 650 and 670 are either 2 or 4 node systems, with 48 drives in 4U. The 670 has faster CPUs for the best performance of the portfolio and can scale to 960 drives, while the Primera 650 scales to 576 drives. One less thing to mention in this ChalkTalk is storage integrated application-aware data protection with Recovery Manager Central or RMC. RMC is a direct backup from Primera  to StoreOnce, that is 23 times faster backup and 15 times faster restore  than traditional backup. And it also gives you easy public cloud protection with cloud bank storage. I've got ChalkTalks about both Recovery Manager  Central and Cloud Bank Storage, so check them out. We'll be talking a lot about HPE  Primera on our storage blogs, so be watching as we dive into more details.  To learn more, go to hpe.com/storage/Primera. I always love to hear from you on Twitter, where you can find me as @CalvinZito.  You find my blog at hpe.com/storage/blog. Until next time, thanks for joining me on this Around the Storage Storage Block ChalkTalk. 