 Hi, I'm Chris Pasek, a Product Manager for HPE, and I would like to give you a brief overview of how HPE is making infrastructure agile and turning it into a dynamic business resource through automation. Today, enterprises need to create flexible and adaptive infrastructure just to keep up with the ever increasing pace of business. The challenges that traditional IT operators face today are that their legacy environments are consuming their resources, siloed infrastructure, dated management processes, numerous manual tasks, and specialized management tools. That is why, according to leading industry analysts, more than 70% of enterprises have made creating flexible and adaptive infrastructure a top priority. To turn infrastructure into an agile and fluid business resource, it must be controlled programmatically. The traditional approach to infrastructure management required multiple tools from multiple vendors, which required thousands of lines of script, making this approach time consuming, costly, inflexible and inherently delicate. With Synergy and OneView, HPE has automated provisioning, configuration and monitoring of HPE infrastructure, turning thousands of lines of custom script into a single line of code, freeing IT organizations to focus on what is important, value creation, and meeting their specific business needs. A growing list of automation partners are taking advantage of the unified API in HPE OneView, providing IT administrators with a wide range of automation tools including Ansible by Red Hat, Terraform, Chef software, Puppet, PowerShell, Python, and VMware. Using the unified API and these popular tools, IT administrators can deploy and update servers, storage and networking simultaneously, with a single line of code, composing new infrastructure that is not only faster and more agile, it is also more predictable. Because automation reduces human error. One of the most popular automation tools is Ansible by Red Hat, for which HPE has developed an SDK, which provides the foundation for infrastructure automation, using infrastructure as code for provisioning and compliance, a Cloud operating forum, allowing organizations to drive operational consistency and higher productivity by automatically provisioning the entire stack, from bare metal to application in minutes, maintaining infrastructure compliance with automated rolling upgrades, providing flexibility through provisioning and updating bare metal in the same way as virtual cloud resources. HPE's OneView Ansible SDK allows you to deliver infrastructure-as-code with a widely used cloud infrastructure automation tool, and to simplify automation scripts by leveraging OneView server templates. Currently, OneView Ansible SDK code is available on GitHub, where you can also find end to end scripts, examples and a change log for each version. API based automation provides increase, speed and efficiency. Server deployments can be up to to 94% faster with partner Dev Ops integrations, reducing time to stand up a single server from two hours to 15 minutes. API automation also reduces risks and lowers costs, with consistent versioning and reproducibility, and with automated compliance enforcement. It also keeps infrastructure flexible and scalable by enabling the repurposing of already deployed servers in just 30 minutes  and provides a simplified user interface experience, through templates which allow you to capture best practice once, and then to roll it out to your infrastructure. For more information, please visit these resources. Thanks for watching. 