 Keeping up with technology is hard. There's too much information to keep track of. It's time for a simple and straightforward approach. It's time for IT insights. [Michelle] We're seeing a lot of great traction in the market for HPE ProLiant for Microsoft Azure stack what I wanted to do today is talk with Claude Lorenson about what is Azure Stack, how is it different from Azure and what traction are you seeing in the market. [Claude] That's great well Azure Stack is essentially an extension of Azure and your data centers. It uses the same API, the same portal, the same billing system as Azure but it bring a set of ayahs and pass services from Azure in your own data center. It's a very elegant concept it brings the cloud to your on-premises environment for scenarios that are needed where for example you have latency issues or regulation issues and the traction has been very very good so we're very happy with the momentum we're having. We're having lots of success at first with service providers and now we're seeing more and more enterprise adopting and we're starting to win very big deals for Azure Stack. [Michelle] So when I talk to customers the conversation always drives towards use cases so cloud from a Microsoft perspective what are some of the key use cases that you guys position Azure stack for? [Claude] That's a really good question, and that's one of the driver of course for the product so the use cases we've seen are really divided in three areas the edge and disconnected scenarios are sometimes called a submarine scenario. So think of aggregating data locally and later using Azure for further processing so this is a scenario very popular in manufacturing. Think of oil and gas. Think of a manufacturing line where there's latency issue and you cannot be connected to the cloud all the time so Azure Stack provides a very good solution for that. We also see a bunch of usage in areas where you have regulation. For example, this is a scenario very popular in a banking industry in local government in healthcare so if you need data locally that cannot cross a border because you your data by regulation has to be in country or you have to be on premises for some regulatory issues that's quite prevalent for example in banking in health care. Azure Stack provides the cloud application on your own premises so that's another scenario that we see and it's quite popular like I said in banking government and healthcare. A third scenario is modernizing your application for legacy investment for example if you have a lot of application running on a mainframe and you want to start modernizing with modern paths and IaaS services Azure Stack fills the gap where you can start developing your application and when you're ready to go you have the freedom to deploy them either in the cloud the public cloud or on-premise if that makes sense. So, Azure Stack is being used in that scenario quite a lot we see that in a lot of pharmaceutical companies. In general, these scenarios will fit within one of these three big buckets and now that we've expanded the geography where Azure Stack is available to over 80 some countries I'm sure we're going to start seeing very different use cases because of remote location and things like that but essentially the three use case I've talked about our the main one. [Michelle] Okay great and I know - from an Internet of Things perspective we're hearing a loT of use cases coming from customers around that as well and that's a big driver of food future product capacity and capability and product features for Azure Stack. [Michelle] I know you mentioned traction a little bit. Can you talk a little bit more about the types of customers you're seeing adopting Azure Stack? [Claude] Yeah so we are really happy with momentum we're seeing with Azure Stack. We're doing very well with HPE. In the beginning when we went to market many of the adopters were service providers because we had a lot of program to help them be early adopters. There's was a huge spike of demand from service provider and now the the main drivers is actually enterprises. Enterprise that are using Azure they're seeing Azure Stack as a way to extend their use of Azure and use case that they can't use the public cloud and we're gaining big big deal which really helps the credibility of the product and it helps generate more word of mouth demand for Azure Stack where the first year has been very, very good for us the product capabilities that gos that we're serving and the strengths we're having with HPE for example in many of the verticals is really boding well for the future it's a something that we're very, very bullish about.  [Michelle] That's great. Thanks for joining me today, Claude, I appreciate it. [Claude] Great, thank you. 