 (upbeat music) Hello, my name is Andrew Murphy. I work for Hewlett Packard Enterprise in San Jose, California. I am part of the Platforms team for 3PAR and HPE Primera Product Management. What I'm responsible for is to work with our customers and our partners and even prospective customers to make sure that we as an organization are prioritizing the right things to make valuable solutions to our customers. Specifically with HPE Primera, it's a solution that's really designed to redefine mission-critical for our customers, leveraging intelligent storage. And so I'm gonna tell you about some of the cool things that I'm hearing on a day-to-day basis from our customers and our partners about why they love HPE Primera. One of the things that customers tell us they love about HPE Primera is that it's backed with HPE InfoSight. I know what you're probably thinking, is that everyone has something around artificial intelligence and machine learning. But what separates HPE InfoSight is it's been around a lot longer than what the other options that our customers have to consider have been. We actually acquired it as part of the Nimble Storage acquisition. And then we combined that with telemetry data that we've been collecting as part of our 3PAR acquisition that we've had for well over 10 years. You have a lot of data and a lot of time, that helps provide richer insights to customers. In fact, over 1,250 trillion data points are pulled from different devices, and that extends beyond just storage. It extends through the network, through the compute modules, servers, Synergy nodes, up to the application. And because ultimately our business is to serve up data to the apps, because that's what runs businesses, customers are able to get much more value out of HPE InfoSight than any other platform. Another thing that our customers are telling us that they absolutely love about HPE Primera is its service-centric OS. What is a service-centric OS? you're probably thinking. Best example is your smartphone. Think about that. You use your smartphone for a lot of things. One of it is making calls, maybe checking some email, surfing the web, whatever. Imagine if every time that you wanted to update an app, you had to reboot your phone. How could you ever get anything done? With HPE Primera there's a rich pipeline of innovation, unlike some systems where if you make a change to the environment it takes a long time, you need professional services to help get it done, or it's very disruptive to the applications that are being serviced. You don't have any of that with HPE Primera. We only update the data service that needs to be updated, the app that only needs to be updated, without having to reboot any of the system. And so what that allows you to do is have a much smaller change window. Customers can focus on the more important things with their business, yet at the same time still enjoy the rich pipeline of innovation that we have for HPE Primera. One of the things that our customers tell us that they love, and frankly they don't believe about HPE Primera, is our 100% data availability guarantee. That's right. So here's the thing. Most customers will come to me and say, "Hey, data availability guarantee sounds great. First off, everyone has some kind of program, but there's usually a very long terms and conditions. You have to sign you life away." But the reality is with the 100% data availability guarantee, there's three basic things. First is, subscribe to InfoSight, there's enough value in there already. Plenty of insights to help you run your business. The second is, be at a proactive support contract, pretty standard. And then as long as you're following patching best practices if you experience anything other than 100% data availability, then we'll make it right by you. Before you say that it's all marketing fluff, the thing you have to realize is that we're an engineering company. For us to be able to come out to you and say, "Hey, here's our commitment, here's our value proposition, here's our offer," we have to be very confident in the work that our engineers do, the products that they deliver. And we are. And so customers are happy because we are actually putting skin in the game, in their success, with the 100% data availability guarantee. Our customers are telling us that a reason that they love HPE Primera is the predictive acceleration capability that the system offers. So you're probably thinking how does a new platform offer predictive anything? Again, this goes back to the heritage that we brought in with 3PAR, where it was targeted at a hosting service provider space with massive consolidation of very different applications and systems into a single platform. Then when you bring in the predictive intelligence powered by HPE InfoSight, courtesy of Nimble Storage, we're able to offer not just a fast box, but a predictably fast box that will allow our customers to be able to keep application latency as low as possible while delivering incredible throughput. We have limitless parallelization based on our all-active architecture that allows us to drive the benefits of emerging technology such as NVMe and Storage Class Memory. All the host ports are active all of the time. Not only that, this is a platform that actually tunes itself. Because again, HPE InfoSight is a learning community, it's global intelligence engine. And so we're actually able to balance I/O across all the physical components, but also be able to identify when things may be needed to configured in a different way. These are all things that customers used to have to do. They used to have to manage this through spreadsheets. All these things can be managed through spreadsheets, but there's more important things to do. And so by having an embedded AI engine via HPE InfoSight, we're able to actually take that time away from the customer so they can go focus on more important things. And that's what predictive acceleration is all about. Let me tell you about a reason customers are telling us they love HPE Primera. It has everything to do about how it fits into their composable infrastructure strategy. You're probably wondering, "What is it about composable infrastructure that customers care about?" Think about it. Our customers run a business. they're trying to stand new products, new services faster than their competitors. The best way to do it is to empower your developers. And so what composable infrastructure allows is to have a single pool of resources that can be stood up and broken down as quickly as developers need it. Powered by HPE Synergy, HPE OneView, and now backed with HPE Primera, customers have a way to accelerate time to market, their time to value quicker by enabling their developers. In fact, we're able to reduce the time to provision new apps from hours down to minutes because of the level of integration of HPE Primera into the composable infrastructure. What our customers, and partners, are telling us that they love about HPE Primera is the fact that all HPE Primera is Timeless. Timeless is our commitment to customers. It's a program that every HPE Primera platform is a part of. What's included in Timeless? All-inclusive software features. There's no nickel-and-diming for a feature one or feature two. It's all there, no surprises. Talk about no surprises, we actually offer flat-support pricing with HPE Primera. So what that means is that when you start to do your forecasting, your budgeting, your planning, you don't really have to guess a whole lot. Whatever you paid up front is what your support price will be on that same system going forward. We also offer a 30-day satisfaction guarantee on the product. If you are not satisfied with HPE Primera, we will work with you to make it right. That is our commitment to you. Things like data reduction, the availability guarantee, all of that is included. And remember, the 100% data availability guarantee is only available, no strings attached, with HPE Primera. The other thing that HPE Primera offers as part of Timeless is controller upgrade options. Now this is pretty awesome. What is allows you to do is be able to start small, at our smallest HPE Primera system, and by simply upgrading the controllers, leaving your drives in place, upgrade to the most performant-capable HPE Primera system. You don't have to worry about lost investment. You don't have to worry about overbuying the product. Your investment is protected with HPE Primera. There's also a premium version of HPE Timeless. And that's our technology refresh option. What this promises customers is that every three years they get a nondisruptive technology refresh. They can upgrade to the latest and greatest platform of HPE Primera, installed with zero disruption. When we start talking to customers about what is mission-critical, the example that comes up most frequently is when lives and dimes are on the line, that's mission-critical to them. When any variability, volatility in performance application response time happens, and they get a call from a C-level as opposed to tech support, those are mission-critical. And so what's exciting about HPE Primera is that it's the first platform to A, guarantee data availability 100%. It offers a simplified user experience so that anyone can manage it, operate it. And it's 100% serviceable by our customers. And what that means is that it's less disruption when they want to make adds, changes, updates, or enhancements to the platform. So it's really changing how customers are managing their data today, because what customers are telling us is that they want to get out of the business of managing storage and just worry about their data. For me personally, working on HPE Primera is incredibly rewarding. The primary reason? It's the people, it's the engineers, it's the others in product, it's marketing, it's sales, it's customers, it's partners. It's something that I wish that everyone had the chance to see from where I'm sitting. We have people that just want to build something cool, something that solves problems. And we're doing it. We're having fun doing it. We're winning, winning big. We're going into a place in the market that frankly hasn't seen a lot of innovation in close to 20 years. That's fun, that's bold, and that's what gets people excited to come to work. What I specifically like about the product is that HPE Primera is not about the hardware, it's not about the software, it's not just about the analytics. That's all important, but the fact that we bring it all together, all these teams working together to come to market with a solution, and we go beyond just the storage, something that just storage companies can't do. We also know that it's incredibly important for our customers to do it. And because it's all backed with HPE InfoSight, not only does it tie seamlessly into their current infrastructures, also their future infrastructures, but it's really starting to bring some powerful insights into helping them get more out of their IT. (upbeat music) 