 Computing at the edge is making our world much smarter. Retailers can uncover new ways to help their customers. Manufacturers become more efficient. Cities proactively respond to the people that live in them. All these dynamic new experiences have similar requirements. With low latency, processing data delivers insights more quickly. Bandwidth optimization identifies and sends insights back to the cloud and secure private communication protects data and network traffic from threats. The telcos who succeed in enabling these edge services will change how customers see them. From bandwidth providers competing on price to thought leaders who provide high value enterprise services. But in order to succeed, telcos need 5G solutions that enable security, automation, and simplicity. So they can compete at the edge. Hewlett Packard Enterprise is helping telcos deliver edge compute at the speed of business with HPE Edge Orchestrator. Here's how it can help you. In order to capitalize on this potential, telcos need to bring cloud application intelligence, which today lives in centralized data centers, out to the edge where data is created. The challenge is building edge compute involves many components and is complex. And on top, you will have to manage both applications and servers across edge sites. The key to making new edge computing investment successful for both telcos and their customers is to ensure that applications running at the edge are easy to deploy and manage across many sites. Those who can deliver these new services will gain access to new business opportunities across every vertical and industry. So how can you benefit? HPE Edge Orchestrator helps telcos deliver edge services securely with automation and simplicity. With HPE Edge Orchestrator, you can securely deploy new services to a variety of enterprises across many verticals with an as-a-service delivery model that allows you to focus on growing revenue without a huge upfront investment. Your customers can deploy and manage all of their edge applications with a single click from a self service portal or API call. With a few clicks, you'll be able to set up new service offerings, manage large scale automation and monitor resources across sites and devices. What if you could be ready to deploy in one click and immediately start providing revenue generating services to customers that are secure and easy to use? In short, Hewlett Packard Enterprise brings automation, security, and simplicity to the edge with industry leading orchestration. With over 30 years of proven industry leadership, Hewlett Packard Enterprise has more than 50 open and flexible solutions ready to deploy. And over 1500 active contracts with more than 300 telco customers worldwide. We can help you transform the edge to generate new revenues and compete in ways that were not possible before. Learn how you can benefit today. 