 I am Ron Dharma. On this video, I am going to showcase Google Cloud큦 Anthos that enables Google Kubernetes Engine On-Prem with HPE SimpliVity. A couple of major benefits to be Hybrid IT customers: One, the simplest Hybrid IT experience by using Google Cloud큦 development and operations of Google Kubernetes engine on their On-Prem site. Two, customers can also manage their virtual machines workload using the familiar SimpliVity tool. These are the components of the Google Kubernetes engine On-Prem. One, Admin will log in via a INAUDIBLE accepting workstation to perform the deployment and management of GKE On-Prem. Two, admin clusters will host the admin Control and User Control planes for the communication with GCP, vCenter, worker nodes and, last but not least, the monitoring tools in GCP. Three, user clusters consist of worker nodes where the Containers will be hosted and operational. Four, Layer 4 Network Load Balancer for the ingress and egress of control and applications networking. Five, the HPE SimpliVity cluster with Vmware Vsphere where GKE On-Prem is hosted. This is the vCenter Admin view of the GKE On-Prem that has been deployed on top of HPE SimpliVity. In the resource pool GKE_RP we can observe all of the components that are part of the Google Cloud큦 Anthos clusters. We can also view some of the VMware workloads that run in the same SimpliVity cluster. SimpliVity functionalities such as Spec Apps will still be applicable to each of those VM hosted in the SimpliVity data store. Moreover, an Admin can perform SimpliVity operations against legacy workloads and hosting the cloud-native workloads. Let's take a look at the view of the Google Cloud큦 platform dashboard, where the GKE On-Prem clusters have been registered. Note that the Kubernetes Admin can also manage the Google Cloud-hosted Kubernetes cluster in the same dashboard. Now we are navigating into the applications that are deployed on GKE On-Prem with SimpliVity, which is the Google Cloud큦 Kubernetes version of WordPress. The WordPress is deployed together with the MySQL database to host the Wordpress website that has been adapted for this demo. So the demo showcases GKE On-Prem with SimpliVity to host the curated applications available in the Google marketplace. In the next demo, I am going to present the deployment of GKE On-Prem with HPE SimpliVity. The Admin will start by downloading the Linux Admin to Station OVA from the designated Google repository. Google provides a Terra Form automation script to deploy this Admin workstation. The Admin workstation contains the preconfigured tools to deploy GKE On-Prem. After the Admin workstation has been deployed with the required keys, the Admin will log in to the Admin workstation VM to start the GKE On-Prem deployment. the Admin will modify a config.yaml with information such as vCenters, Credentials, GCP key files, among many other things. To ensure a proper and faultless deployment, the Admin will perform the check-config of the config.yaml, as shown here. The Admin then performs the preparation prior to deployment of the GKE On-Prem clusters by issuing the prepare and validate config. The preparation will download another OVA and make it as a VM template. Now this template will be used as the base image for all the Kubernetes nodes, which is part of the GKE Admin and user clusters as further shown in this demo. Now it is time to create the GKE On-Prem cluster, using the configuration files that have been validated. Note that this process would create the nodes that are part of the Admin cluster and then followed by the nodes for the first user cluster. The first step in orchestration is deploying the Admin cluster master. The orchestration also orchestrating the load balancer to allow the required traffic to be directed properly as being shown here. All of the nodes of the master cluster will also be deployed afterwards. The next step in orchestration is to perform deployment of the user cluster master node, which is providing the control plane to the worker nodes part of the user cluster. And in about 22 minutes we can see the user cluster master node was established, after what the use of cluster master node is fully functional. And we can see that worker nodes part of the first user cluster were deployed in parallel. While the worker nodes were being prepared for the orchestration, they are also setting up the communications required for the GKE API, user cluster API and surface master parts of GKE On-Prem. About 29 minutes later, the deployment of user cluster nodes is complete and this concludes the deployment of GKE On-Prem to the HPE SimpliVity cluster. Now we are looking at the GCP console and observe that thedeployed user cluster was automatically registered into the list of the clusters that is managed by this GCP account. To allow the DCP to manage the GKE On-Prem user cluster, I created the authorization to allow the binding of the Kubernetes service account that will generate a special token, copied this token into the GCP log into the cluster menu and the user cluster indicated On-Prem now can make use of all of the services available in the GCP, including the deployment of the GCP Marketplace Kubernetes applications. Final demo. I will deploy the WordPress from the DCP Marketplace onto the GKE On-Prem cluster hosted with HPE's SimpliVity. In the GCP console, I click the button to deploy from the Google Marketplace. In the Marketplace, I filter out the Kubernetes applications for block and content management services. Now, Google Anthos allows for the deployment of WordPress from the GCP marketplace to the GKE On-Prem hosted in SimpliVity, similar to the deployment of Google큦 Public Cloud. Now, to deploy the application, I select the Google Communities Cluster, which is hosted On-Prem, using HPE SimpliVity. After selecting the new names spaces, I deploy these WordPress applications. The deployment continued and within 30 seconds we can see the parts that contain components such as the SQL server, authentication services, and many other services are up in the user cluster nodes. After two minutes, WordPress is fully deployed and I am making changes to the yaml file to direct the ingress IP to the load balancers. Now, eventually, I can display the default page of WordPress. Inside the Admin workstation at my GKE On-Prem, I can use the Kube Cuddle tool to display the completed deployments which are hosted on the GKE On-Prem with HPE SimpliVity. This concludes the demo of Google Cloud큦 Anthos for GKE On-Prem with HPE SimpliVity. Thank you for your attention. 