 Hey guys. So when I talk to businesses and organizations, I always hear a common theme that they're looking to bring on new mission-critical apps as well as support their existing ones. Because they want to accelerate everything that they do. They want to drive more innovation. They want to unlock hidden insights, and they just want to speed up their overall business. The challenge with that is that it's really, really hard for IT to keep up with the business side because these guys are overwhelmed administering, tuning and supporting existing infrastructure. They've had to make a series of trade-offs, where they've had the sacrifice agility to get that mission-critical resiliency. This is why HPE has been investing in developing a new approach to mission-critical storage. That's wny I'm so excited about HPE Primera. It eliminates those trade-offs. It eliminates those sacrifices and redefines what's possible with mission-critical storage. Now it provides three key benefits that I want to touch on. The first is simplicity. When we first looked at the design center for Primera, we knew we had to make it super simple. Because, when you think about the world that we're in today, no one wants to wait for anything. It's an on-demand world. If you think about something as simple as renting a movie, no one wants to get in the car, drive to a kiosk and rent that movie when you can get that same experience at home with a couple of clicks on your remote control. No waiting, instant entertainment. That's the level of simplicity we're bringing to storage with HPE Primera. Now, we do this through an on-demand user experience that enables an on-demand experience for mission-critical storage. What that does for our customers is it allows them to move faster and save up to 93% time savings. So the next piece is, obviously we're talking about mission-critical storage. It has to be always on because any type of downtime could do irreparable damage to  your brand or to your business. With HPE Primera, we're resetting expectations for mission-critical storage, with 100% availability guarantee. Now, as great as that sounds, I think the best part, really, is that there's no special contracts. There's no hidden Ts and Cs. We're making it really, really easy for our customers to take advantage of this guarantee. All you have to do is run your storage like you normally would, and you get that peace of mind that your business and that your data is always gonna be on with 100% availability. The last piece that's super important is that  we're delivering predictable performance, predictable acceleration in this unpredictable world, so that you know that your APs and your data  are always on and always fast. Now what Primera is grounded in is four key innovations that make Primera completely unique in the industry. The first is around intelligence. Now, if you followed HPE, you know that intelligence changes everything. And with HPE InfoSight, it's already widely regarded as the most advanced AI for infrastructure. To date, we've already saved our customers 1.5 million hours by predicting and preventing disruptions before they impact your business. And now we're taking intelligence to the next level by embedding it directly into HPE Primera. Now you've got intelligence built into your array that delivers App aware resiliency, as well as instant insights to optimize your performance in real time. So the benefit for a customer is that they get the industry's only complete AI pipeline  for self managing storage. The second innovation is within all active architecture. When we designed Primera, we wanted to make sure that it was getting the absolute most out of every physical component. Now, if you wonder why that's a big deal. The best way of explaining that is that if you were going to run in a road race, would you hop on one foot and save your second foot for when the first foot got tired? No, that's ridiculous. You'd sprint with both your legs as fast as you could. And we took the same design approach with Primera, where we've deployed it with a multi node, all active architecture that allows you to tap into more horsepower to reap the full benefits of next gen solid state technologies, like NVMe and storage class memory. Now the third innovation is around the services centric OS. We've designed the OS to deliver radical simplicity, as well as to  provide advance data services for mission-critical environments. So, for example, it enables you to transparently upgrade your system as well as deploy and upgrade data services independently of each other. So the benefit for our customers is that it's the first and only mission-critical high end storage that is so simple that it allows our customers to self install and self upgrade the system in just a matter of minutes. The last innovation is with a unique business model that enables a timeless experience. Everybody knows the pain of forklift upgrades. You have to wheel in a new system. You've gotta migrate your data. The whole process could take months to complete. With HPE Primera, you're able to eliminate the forklift upgrade altogether and non destructively upgrade your system. And with the timeless program for HPE Primera we're transforming the entire ownership experience. By unlocking data's full potential, Primera is allowing our customers to innovate more freely, accelerate their apps and move with greater agility. It's a brand new product. I'm super excited  about it, and I highly recommend everybody to check out our website to get more information. Thanks for listening! 