 HPE is the largest Edge-to-Core infrastructure provider in the world and also number one in the SAP/HANA space. With that, it gives us a tremendous market to helping customers needs and help them move to S/4 by the 2025 deadline. HPE is a long-standing SAP partner and HANA Trailblazer. From the very early days of the launch of the HANA solution, they have helped thousands of SAP customers move their application workloads to run an SAP/HANA, including some of the largest data footprints out on the market. It is great to see them as a customer, as they are moving their business into SAP S/4 HANA and laying the foundation for future innovation. So what we are going through today is not a traditional IT modernization process. This is a business-led transformation where we get a cadence and a speed that have never been done before. Many companies in the world are going through various steps to perform a digital transformation. But for us, this is really fundamental. So it's actually tectonic shifts that we are doing in our architecture. So we took the original Hewlett-Packard into four separate companies and we are transitioning of of the infrastructure and the processes of yesterday, if you will. The broader Hewlett-Packard ran on about 10 ERPs and that is all consolidating down onto one pool for implementation.  HPE is a great example of an SAP customer that's not just using S/4 to run their finance, payables, receivables, and general ledger, but also using it to embed intelligence into what is already a very sophisticated supply chain and order management process that produces and fulfills over five servers, seven networking devices every minute. S4/HANA simplifies full layers of ERP stack. It collapses transactional and analytical processing into the database. It embeds machine learning and new advanced functionality like subscription order management inside the core, allowing customers to run processes in a single system, rather than multiple systems. And it also offers business users with a role web-based user experience, allowing them to transact, predict, and analyze, all in one simple use. It's not just that they want to be simpler, our business model has fundamentally shifted, so we are truly replatforming Hewlett Packard Enterprise, literally, all the way from the quote, all the way through to the corporate financials. Greenfield replatforming. With so much on the line, it's incredible to see how HPE is leveraging S/4 to push the boundaries of their supply chain and order management processes so that they can focus on innovative products and services for their customers. Traditional databases use instances. Those instances in the past have been spread across a big errand and today with  the SAP/S4 multi-tenancy capability, you are able to stack these instances, resulting in a smaller footprint as well a significant energy reductions. So managing change and the speed at which you can deliver value, those pressures have never been higher. S/4 is our beating transactional heart, we have a very extensive footprint, and end-to-end integrated portfolio with SAP some things like Ariba, Concur, IBP. Those are all extensively implemented and part of our hybrid IT footprint. So as we look to the future the AI/ML work that we have planned for looking things in this portfolio like call tricks, There is a lot to look at and we have got a foundation now that we are enabling that would allow us to exploit a lot more going forward, at a lot faster innovation rate. Da Vinci said “simplicity is the ultimate sophistication” and a big part of what we are doing is driving complexity out  of our core. So when we look at our future going forward it is a lot more intelligent. It's a lot more simple, and it's a lot more focused on speed business agility. 