 (upbeat music) We're here at Discover More Munich, some very exciting things are happening related to the Edge or the Intelligent Edge. One is we're demonstrating our solutions and our products and our services that can take our customers and our partners to the Edge and improve the way they live and work and play at the Edge. I think of the Edgeline Converged Edge system which is a new product category that allows our OEM partners and our customers take advantage of the enormous opportunity at the Edge for both profit and improving their business outcomes. Within our Edge-based products, we're delivering that next level of performance. It gives our customers the ability to make no trade offs with respect to the applications they can run at the Edge. Even the highest performance AI-based inference and training applications can now be done at the Edge in very small form factor components, even deployed within a suitcase. (upbeat music) We have a great OEM team that really gets underneath our customers' needs, wants to do what's best for their outcomes, which means embedding our products within their operations technology. What's great about that is we can bring a lot of value to the table from our deep engineering capabilities to our supply chain to our global services and even our Greenlake offerings that allow our customers to change their business model from a CapEx to an OpEx and subscription model. It's really exciting time for OEM and for Edge. Some of the use cases we have here are quite exciting because we have a very broad and comprehensive view. The three Cs of the Intelligent Edge are connect, compute and control. All three of those Cs can be embodied in one or more products and solutions that we offer here such as the ability to connect to automobiles on the manufacturing line in industrial IoT application, compute the data and then, most importantly, the third C, take control or action to actuate and to decide what to do with that particular product to move it along to get it out the door faster. By 2025, 75% of the data will be generated at the Edge and it won't move back to data centers. So, that creates a tremendous opportunity for us to analyze that data and take action right where that data is. (upbeat music) The Edge is indeed more than a buzzword. It is very personally rewarding, as well as professionally, to see how this Edge market has literally evolved into something that is not only profitable for our partners, including our OEM partners, but most importantly, is benefiting our customers. It's a very exciting time for us. We're bringing these technologies out to where the data is with new business models, new approaches. Our OEM team is really there to help our customers be successful. (upbeat music) 