 Hey, everyone and welcome to Microsoft Ignite. I'm joining you here today from beautiful Seattle, because I can't hang out with you in Orlando for this Ignite, at least I can invite you to my neighborhood. Now, during this global pandemic and economic shifts, my biggest learning has been that no organization is immune to a crisis, and no organization is a 100 percent resilient. But we've seen that organizations fortified with Cloud and digital capabilities have been able to adjust quickly and address changing customer needs faster. It's been incredibly heartwarming to work hand-in-hand with so many customers across the globe, to help them react and become more resilient during this time. Then as you heard from Satya, Microsoft offers a comprehensive portfolio of technology to support every organization across their business needs, and underpinning all of this is Azure. But while the technology is important, it really is about how the technology allows our customers to achieve more. A great example of this is Walgreens Boots Alliance, a global pharmacy and health care retail provider. They were already running their website on Azure, and when COVID-19 hit, they needed to quickly add chatbot technology to help customers get rapid answers to their health questions. They use our health care bot service to add a COVID-19 risk assessment bot to the walgreens.com website. They also use the Microsoft bot framework to add a general question and answer bot to the boots.com pharmacy web-page, all built on Azure. Their customers now get answers to common questions quickly and safely based on where the customer is located, what they need, and even their individual health care coverage. Stories like this inspire us and serve as a great example of how we want to empower you to invent with purpose. It's this focus that centers how we work within the Azure team, as well as how we deliver technology for you. Now to do this, it starts with ensuring that we are providing you a Cloud platform that is future ready. We have the innovation you need today, and we're investing ahead of the curve to ensure you'll have what you need for the next 50 years. For developers, we're ensuring you can build with the tools you want, the languages you want, and the platforms you want, so you can create the innovation your organization is counting on you to deliver. The Azure team, we've always understood the importance of enabling a Hybrid approach across On-prem, Multicloud, and at the Edge. You can count on us to make sure that you can run your Hybrid environment seamlessly with consistency and governance, security, identity management. Now, even Azure fully managed services like data and AI, can run across multiple locations wherever your application resides and even when disconnected. But ultimately, it's all about trust, and we're focused on earning your trust every day. This is why we invest one billion dollars annually in cybersecurity and have always had more compliance certifications than any public Cloud provider. Trust is also about being clear that we're a technology provider and we're not going to compete with our customers. Now today, we have a total of 61 Azure regions across the globe, more than any other Cloud provider. We additionally offer availability zones in 14 regions across each major geography with roadmap for more to come. We continue to invest deeply in our global regions, so we always meet you where you are and with the reliability that you need. Today, we're going to show you-all the latest innovations from our Hybrid offerings, to App Dev, to analytics and AI. To tell you the latest in Azure Hybrid, I'd like to introduce Corporate Vice President for Azure Compute, Erin Chapple. Erin, Take it away.  Thank you, Julia. It has been incredible to hear stories of how you enabled remote work, delivered cost savings projects, and were able to innovate with Azure. The approach Microsoft has taken with Hybrid allows you to leverage your existing on-premise investments and even support Multicloud. From Day 1, we built Azure knowing that the journey to the Cloud required a Hybrid approach. We've evolved to support Multicloud and MultiEdge, giving you the consistency and flexibility to innovate anywhere. With Azure Arc, you have a single control plane to consistently manage and govern all of your IT resources wherever they reside. With Azure Arc enabled services, you have the flexibility to deploy Azure fully managed services anywhere, On-premises or in other public Clouds. With the Azure Stack portfolio, you can bring Azure consistent infrastructure to your own data-centers, even running it on existing certified hardware with Azure Stack HCI. Lastly, we know that increasingly new apps often include running some aspects of the Edge, so we brought in our comprehensive Azure IoT portfolio. So there is consistency in the developer, management, and security experiences, all the way to the gateway or on tiny MCU devices like Azure Sphere. Today, I'm excited to share some of the latest product innovations in our Hybrid portfolio. Let's start with Azure Arc. Azure Arc enabled servers is now generally available, enabling customers to seamlessly manage, govern, and secure Windows and Linux servers, whether these are On-premises, in public Clouds or at the Edge, all from a single place, the Azure portal. Once you on-board the servers to Azure, you can apply Azure management services such as Azure Policy, Azure Monitor, tagging, and Azure Security Center to truly unify IT operations in a single location. Azure Arc enabled data services is now in public preview. With Azure's popular data services like Azure SQL Managed Instance, and Azure PostgreSQL Hyperscale enabled with Azure Arc, you can now benefit from the latest Azure innovation when and where you need it. For example, you can take advantage of always current evergreen SQL, achieve elastic scale, and gain a unified data management experience on any Kubernetes cluster running in both connected and disconnected environments. We also announced the public preview of Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes earlier this year. Today, I'm glad to announce the preview of Azure Kubernetes service on Azure Stack HCI, which lets customers deploy and manage containerized apps at scale on Azure Stack HCI. This provides a consistent, secure, and fully managed Kubernetes experience for customers who want to use Azure Stack within their data centers. Since we launched Azure Arc last November, we have seen tremendous customer interests and adoption across all industries. We are thrilled to see customers already realizing value with Azure Arc, Siemens Healthineers, one of the world's largest medical equipment suppliers, is using Azure Arc to improve deployment and updates consistently at scale from Azure to medical equipment in distributed environments. To help patients in this pandemic, they developed and rolled out new algorithms to help assess the lung damage in COVID-19 patients. With Azure Arc, updates and roll-outs of vital new health care algorithms to Siemens Healthineers worldwide customers are faster, easier, and better to manage. Africa's Talking empowers developer communities across Africa by giving them access to modern infrastructure and tools. Latency issues and local data sovereignty requirements make it challenging for developers to build connected Cloud apps in many parts of Africa. By using Azure Arc, Africa's Talking can deploy and manage Kubernetes apps from a single place, the Azure portal, giving developers the tools and flexibility to innovate and grow their businesses on a modern platform wherever they are. KPMG Ignition Tokyo is at the center of KPMG Japan's digital transformation. They implemented Azure Arc to scale their low cost secure Cloud solution called Cloud Next, to host clients digital solutions on any infrastructure of their choice. To further advance a Hybrid and Multicloud strategy, KPMG is also rolling out their next generation AI-based audit software built on Azure, and has implemented Azure Arc to deliver seamless auditing solutions across Hybrid data estates for clients. As one of the world's largest system integrators, Avanade works with customers around the globe to manage and optimize their IT environments. As you can imagine, it can be challenging to manage all of their customers environments at scale. By using Azure Arc and Azure Lighthouse, Avanade can now efficiently manage all of their customers Windows and Linux servers across On-premises, Multicloud and at the Edge, all from a consistent control plane in Azure. Let's take a look at the consistency and flexibility Azure Arc enables for these customers, using none other than our favorite organization, Contoso. Contoso is a large manufacturing organization. Their IT systems run Windows, Linux, Kubernetes, and SQL Servers across multiple locations, including on-premises data centers, distribution centers, and multiple public clouds. This poses operational challenges for Contoso, but with Azure Arc, Contoso can unify inventory, governance, and compliance ensuring consistency for their entire IT landscape. Here in the Azure portal, we see one of Contoso's resource groups containing many Azure Arc-enabled resources; servers, Kubernetes clusters, SQL Managed Instances. Azure Arc enabling these servers and Kubernetes clusters allows Azure Policy to extend its governance capabilities no matter where the resources are running. Contoso wants to ensure that all their servers are tagged consistently, have monitoring enabled, and meet the corporate compliance standards. Here you can see an Azure policy corresponding to each of these controls. With Azure Policy, Contoso IT admins and resource owners can view, audit, and remediate their compliance status from one place across servers and Kubernetes clusters. Contoso can also ensure their Kubernetes clusters track corporate configuration profiles and stay up to date, and even better as Kubernetes clusters or servers come online, Azure Policy automatically kicks into gear. These servers and clusters are configured, tagged, and monitored without any human interaction. Now another critical IT task is ensuring everything is up to date. Azure Update Management helps customers get their arms around patch and updates for their Azure Virtual Machines. Azure Arc brings that consistent set of update management capabilities to on-premises infrastructure. By Arc enabling their servers, Contoso can perform consolidated patch and update management using the same Azure-based services across their entire portfolio without leaving the Azure portal. Now that you've seen the consistency Azure Arc enables, what about that flexibility? Azure Arc enables customers to bring Azure services to their on-premises infrastructure and multi-Cloud. For example, by leveraging the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes service, Contoso is able to manage any Kubernetes cluster, including for example, this Arc-enabled AWS, EKS cluster. Contoso is using the AWS EKS cluster to deploy an Azure SQL Managed Instance, and since the cluster was enabled with Azure Monitor for containers, we see the managed instance in one of the pods and its performance metrics on that cluster. Leveraging Azure Arc enabled data services, Contoso is interested in implementing a Cloud-native evergreen version of SQL to reduce the management overhead and deploy their applications and databases anywhere with elastic scale. They also want to stop version management of their databases altogether. Both of these are achieved with an Azure SQL Managed Instance. Let's look at how simple it is to migrate a SQL Server database into an Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance. Contoso uses Azure Data Studio to manage Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance just like any SQL database engine. Again, consistency, restoring a backup into a SQL Managed Instance is as easy as doing a restore action using the Azure Data Studio UI or alternatively, I could execute a restore query. Here you see a backup from file from a SQL instance that I will be restoring into an Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance. After the restore is complete, Contoso also wants to enable transparent data encryption to protect their data. This can be performed by simply executing a query from Azure Data Studio. This is the same SQL you're familiar with. Once our backup instance is restored and transparent data encryption is enabled, we are going to switch over to the Azure Portal in order to see utilization of our new Azure SQL Managed Instance. Azure Arc consolidates the management and monitoring of the over 5,000 on-premise instances Contoso has in a single pane of glass. Azure SQL Managed Instance and Azure PostgreSQL Hyperscale are the first set of Azure Arc-enabled data services. They could be deployed to on-premises, multi-Cloud and Edge environments with support for both connected and disconnected modes to maximize consistency and flexibility for your IT estate. Watch for more services coming to Azure Arc in the future. As customers take full advantage of a multi-Cloud, multi-edge hybrid approach, we are also seeing customers accelerate Cloud migration to enhance business resilience and drive growth in today's environment. One of the most common migration scenarios we see are customers who want to migrate on-premises VMware workloads to the Cloud. I'm excited to announce the general availability of Azure VMware solution. Designed, built and supported by Microsoft, Azure VMware solution is Cloud verified by VMware and lets you seamlessly extend and migrate VMware workloads to Azure. It fully integrates your on-premises environment with Azure so you can embrace the Cloud at your own pace and utilize your existing tools and skills. In addition, with our Azure Hybrid benefit licensing offering, Azure is the most cost-effective Cloud to migrate your Windows server and SQL workloads to, whether or not they run on VMware or elsewhere. We want to make Azure the best Cloud for you to run Windows Server on. We know the day-to-day management tasks like backing up, managing updates, securing servers can be time-consuming, I'm excited to introduce Azure Automanage. This is a new service to help you reduce daily management tasks with automated operations across the life cycle of Windows Server Virtual Machines. It helps you keep pace with new management capabilities as they come available. Azure Automanage automatically configures management and security best practices from Microsoft's Cloud Adoption Framework for services such as Azure Backup, update management, anti-malware, and security center. Let me show you how Azure Automanage works. To get started, I click "Enable Existing VM", I then select the VM, choose the resource group and the server, and I choose a configuration profile. Azure Automanage uses configuration profiles to determine what Azure services will be enabled for that VM. With just a few clicks, Azure Automanage will start monitoring and auto-remediate the VMs as needed to ensure these conform to best-practices. Let's take a deeper look at the configuration profiles available. When I click "Browse and change configuration profiles", I see two profiles; Dev/Test and Production. Here are the services that will be automatically on boarded to the VM for the production configuration profile. You can also customize certain services using configuration preferences. For example, you could change the retention period of Azure Backup. We know regular backups are super-important to production VMs, so Azure Backup is included by default. I can even see the details of the backup configuration. Now let's look at the Dev/Test config profile. Since Dev/Test VMs aren't usually considered critical, you typically wouldn't need a backup of these, and you can see that Azure Backup does not appear. I'm really excited by how Azure Automanage gives you point-and-click simplicity to manage your Windows Server VMs at scale. To help you accelerate your Cloud migration journey, we designed the Azure Migration Program, AMP. This offers free migration tools and resources, best practices, and expert help. With AMP, we've been able to help thousands of customer successfully migrate their applications, databases, and infrastructure to Azure. I'm happy to announce the availability of Windows Virtual Desktop and.NET apps as new supported workloads in AMP. I'd encourage you to sign up for the program today. It's been great to share with you some of the latest investments in Azure Hybrid. Make sure you check out the deep dive sessions to learn more about these technologies. Back to you Julia.  So many great hybrid innovations. Now let's go into my office to talk about App Dev with Azure. Azure provides a broad range of services spanning Infrastructure to Edge. Azure offers the most comprehensive set of serverless technology, enabling you to build rich applications without having to worry about the infrastructure. Of course, we ensure that our services are well integrated with the portfolio of developer tools from VS code to GitHub to Power Apps. With the global situation today, almost all communications are going virtual, so it's become incredibly important to add digital communications to many application experiences. That is why I am thrilled to announce Azure communication services. With Azure communications services, developers can build rich communication experiences using the same secure platform that is used by Microsoft Teams, so you know it's enterprise grade and ready to handle any scale. The communication services include voice and video calling, chat, SMS, telephony calling in the US, and communication networking capabilities for network traversal and media relay. You can add communication workflows to existing and new applications with a flexible set of SDKs and APIs for common languages and platforms including.NET, JavaScript, iOS, Android, and, of course, Web. Now, every application also needs a very capable database. Azure offers a comprehensive set of operational database services spanning relational and non-relational, so you can precisely optimize for your application's needs. Today, our new Azure SQL Edge goes into general availability. Azure SQL Edge brings the most secure Microsoft SQL data engine to IoT and Edge devices running Arm or Intel architectures. Because it's that same technology as Azure SQL and SQL Server, you have a consistent development and management experience. You literally develop once and run your application wherever you need. Now today, we're also announcing the flexible deployment option for Azure Database for MySQL and Azure Database for Postgres. With a flexible deployment option, you have custom maintenance windows, zone-redundant high availability with synchronous replication, and greater cost management with stop-start capability and low cost burstable compute options. But of course, when it comes to building your next application, it starts with the tools. Microsoft offers the world's most comprehensive developer tool chain with Azure, Visual Studio, GitHub, and Power Apps. It's these set of capabilities that enables developer velocity within every organization. Now, one very cool thing I want to call your attention to today: We're announcing the integration between GitHub and Power Apps. This enables CI/CD workflows to be set up for Power Apps, which allows developers and the Power users to collaborate across the low code and a code-first environments. Only Microsoft provides this because only Microsoft knows how to build fantastic low-code experiences for developers. Now, tomorrow, Scott Hanselman will show you these awesome developer experiences. But I thought maybe we could give him a call and see if we can get a sneak peek into what he's going to talk about. Hey, Scott.  Hey, I'm not ready yet. I think it's tomorrow. It's not today. It is tomorrow. You scared me. Okay. Well, while I have you here, tomorrow, September 23rd, day 2 at 8:00 AM Pacific, I'm going to do the app developer keynote. I'm going to get to show you some cool new features for .NET 5, Visual Studio, GitHub, tons of Azure, and we're going to be able to demonstrate some great apps that some friends and I built and be able to see how developers around the world are building apps remotely. Tomorrow.  Thanks, Scott. Well, there you have it. Obviously, he'll be in awesome keynote for everything you want to know about app dev with Microsoft. Now with that, I'm going to hand things off to Rohan Kumar, the Corporate Vice President of Azure Data, to tell you the latest on Azure Analytics and AI. Over to you, Rohan.  Thank you, Julia. Hello, everyone. I'm very excited to talk to you about all the latest innovation in Azure Analytics and AI. Simply put, Azure is the best Cloud for your analytics and AI workloads. We offer the most advanced services in this space that are unmatched in the industry. For example, Azure Synapse Analytics brings together the worlds of enterprise data integration, data warehousing, and big data analytics into a single service, both through on-demand serverless and provisioned resources that's up to 14 times faster and 94 percent cheaper than the competition. Synapse is the most modern Cloud-native analytics platform in the industry that helps you modernize your existing data warehouses and create new innovation. Then there's Power BI, the undisputed leader in business intelligence, providing stunning visualizations that deliver powerful insights. For the Spark community, Azure Databricks provides a premium Spark experience, enabling customers to accelerate innovation with collaborative notebooks and outstanding performance for data engineering and data science projects. Of course, Azure AI, the most comprehensive set of services providing powerful yet responsible AI capabilities on your terms. Our longstanding commitment to our customers is to make these services the most performing and secure Cloud service possible. We achieve this goal to a relentless focus on accelerating time to insights, breaking down data silos and deeply integrating these services so that our customers can innovate, create business value faster than ever before without compromising security and regulations that govern data use. That's important during these uncertain times when we all need to quickly analyze vast amounts of data to remain nimble and competitive. It's been humbling to see the level of customer excitement and momentum around Azure Synapse since its debut last November. So many have rallied around this category defining, ground breaking analytics platform and have provided insightful feedback. Since the announcement of Azure Synapse, we've nearly doubled our customer base in less than one year. As analytics has become the backbone, driving quick and informed business decisions during COVID-19, we've also continued to see a significant increase in using Azure Synapse to fuel answers. In fact, this summer we saw a record high of a billion queries in a single month. Now, that's impressive growth. Now, onto Azure Databricks. Azure Databricks was launched just over two years ago, together with the original creators of Apache Spark. Already, thousands of organizations use this service for analytics and AI solutions. In fact, we've also seen a near doubling of our customer base for Azure Databricks in the last 12 months. Today, we're making the fastest Spark offering even faster with the new high-performance Delta Engine with Photon. Part of Azure Databricks, this engine is built from scratch in C++ and is fully compatible with the Spark APIs. It is designed for modern hardware architectures and uses advancements like CPU level double processing. The results: 20 times faster performance than open-source Spark and it's only available on Azure today. Now, let's talk about Azure AI. I'm excited to announce two new cognitive services that continue to bring AI within reach of every developer without requiring machine learning expertise. First, is the Metrics Advisor, which is a new AI service in preview today that proactively monitors metrics and diagnoses issues. Metrics Advisor monitors the performance of your organization's growth engines, from sales revenue to manufacturing operations, and helps you quickly identify and fix problems through a powerful combination of near real-time monitoring, model adaptation to fit your scenario, granular analysis, and alerting. Second is spatial analysis, a new capability of our Computer Vision service that helps organizations maximize the value of their physical spaces by understanding people's movements and presence in a given area in near real-time. With spatial analysis, applications can count people in a room, measure distances between them, aggregate footfall in a store, understand real-time in front of a retail display, and determine real-times in queues. Developed with strict ethical standards and guidance on how to implement responsibly, this capability can be applied to help organizations reopen safely by using the insights generated to create in-room layouts that support social distancing and other health compliance measures. Now, onto Machine Learning, we have some exciting announcements. Now generally available, the designer capability provides drag-and-drop modules for numerous tasks, including data preparation, model training, and evaluation. With no-code Auto ML, also generally available today, you can build and deploy predictive models for most common use cases such as classification, regression, and forecasting. These new capabilities make it easier to build models your way and empower your data science teams with tools that make developing custom models easier than ever before. We also empower these teams to innovate responsibly. At Build in May, we announced several new responsible machine learning capabilities designed to empower data scientists and developers to understand, protect, and control data and models throughout the machine learning lifecycle; understand model behavior by providing explanations of features used to generate the models at training and inferencing, or to assess the fairness of models and then use built-in techniques to mitigate bias; protect through differential privacy techniques to enable insights to be derived from private data while minimizing privacy leaks; control by tracking the entire machine learning process and maintain an audit trail of all machine learning assets to meet regulatory and compliance requirements and increase the transparency of the process. Only Azure provides such a comprehensive set of tools and capabilities for you to harness the potential of AI in a responsible manner. Let's take a look at an example of a customer using Azure AI today to help patients in intensive care units. Philips is a leading health technology company in diagnostic imaging, patient monitoring, and health informatics. The patient care analytics team uses Azure AI and a responsible IA toolkits to deliver valuable insights to intensive care units regarding patient well-being and care needs. They gather data from 400-plus hospitals, millions of patient stays, billions of vital sign measurements, and hundreds of millions of medication orders and lab values to predict mortality rates, length of care, and costs. To prevent bias in these important predictions, Philips uses a Fairlearn toolkit along with the MLOps pipeline powered by Azure Databricks to monitor fairness metrics at every step of the ML process. Fairlearn helps Philips build state-of-art models by not only assessing key fairness metrics to uncover any groups for which models are less accurate, but also go one step further and mitigate biases to improve the models' overall fairness. Now, that's responsible AI in action. Back to you, Julia.  Thanks, Rohan. Now, we've just scratched the surface of what's possible with Azure, but there's so much more to learn. You can always go to azure.com to learn everything else. With that, I'm off to the Cloud. 