 small and medium-sized enterprises account for 98.5 percent of Malaysian economy if these SMEs are in difficult situations then our country's economy will be very badly affected just when a lot of SMEs in Malaysia are panicking during the Covid 19 MCO the two largest market places in the country have launched stimulus packages up to 25 million ringgit to assist these SMEs kickstart their businesses online hey guys welcome to my channel Chanel Chong here. In this video I'm gonna show you three simple tips on how we can make more money through online businesses in Malaysia if you wondering how to do it, do stay tuned with me until the end of the video before we begin this channel is all about financial and money tips so if you're interested in these kind of topic don't forget to subscribe to my channel and hit the bell button so that you get notified on my new videos so let's begin so tip number one here is we should always take good advantage of the marketplaces . Marketplaces are the online shopping platforms like Lazada, Shopee and other shopping websites where they provide the platforms for the sellers to market their products online especially when platformslike Lazada & shopee have launched stimulus packages to support the sellers financially to market their things on their platforms firstly Lazada's package is open for few groups of sellers those sellers were activated before their campaign which is 15 March 2020 and who are earning lesser than two thousand ringgit in the last 30 days and the sellers who were activated after 15 March but before that 31st May 2020 Lazada launched 8 main benefits to all these sellers who qualify. The first tempting one will be 0 commission is being charged on their product, payment fee waiver free shipping, dedicated sales support, up to 10 times traffic assurance fixed weekly payment, fast approval loans and training live streams up to twice daily. We can see that lazada is giving full force of support to all these new sellers Shopee malaysia on the other hand announced on 13 april 2020 that they will be spending 15 million to subsidize their sellers. Shopee sellers can now enjoy commission charge as low as 0.5% until 31st May 2020.Even though Shopee is still charging certain amount of Commission on their sellers they are giving out free advertising credits to the sellers to help them and encourage them to advertise more on their platforms so sellers are given a free chance to know how to do online marketing for the very first time and therefore attract more traffic to their platforms which will help in their businesses so what are the pros if we market our things on these marketplaces registration with these marketplaces is super easy it is almost instant approval on your account. For Shopee for example the same user can use the same account for selling things or buying things on Shopee always reach out to their account manager or they are still support manager for help Given the savings you have from the local missions of these marketplaces you can always utilize your cash into online marketing instead. Marketplaces already have their systems in place so all you need to do is just follow their guidelines, then you will be able to function your online business. Now kickstarting your online business on these platforms are rather cheap especially when there there is no Commission being charged if there's no sales meet. You will only need to pay them if you have made certain sales amount. Marketplaces have been established since years ago and they have gathered a lot of traffics online so if you're a new seller here you simply don't have to worry about the traffic and somehow you can use their traffic to leverage on your products Now, the only cons here is that the traffic or the customers base into these marketplaces don't belong to you. They simply belong to these marketplaces but bear in mind that it is just a start up for you it is a startup platform for you to kickstart your business online. You can spend more time later on to build your traffic for your own website. This is like a stepping stone to your business. If your business have been operating in a traditional way then it is time to innovate your business model today Zalora is no doubt one of the best leading fashion companies available They are famous for their 30 days free return and free refund policy and have helped them gain a lot of business back then but during the MCO period it seems like it has innovated a new range of products under its website. If you're browsing through their website today, you'll be able to see a range of essential supplies category popping up. Necessities from hand sanitizers to supplements are available on sale on the Zalora's website today. It is a shocking scene to customers like us but it seems like Zalora has adapted a way to sustain and grow its businesses by focusing more on the health category. A lot of restaurant owners who are operating traditional food previously have moved their businesses online. Some of them chose platforms like grab food and foodpanda to help them out with their deliveries while some of them took extra mile to take on delivery on their own. Traditional owners like dim sum sellers and steamboat sellers are making it all out by delivering this food to their consumers. We ordered the hot pot set the other day for steamboat and it tasted as good dining in at the restaurants.So it solved our craving problem during the MCO. Instead of struggling to get more traffic to our own Facebook or Instagram live to sell things, we can now consider Shopee Live as well. As mentioned earlier these marketplaces already have their own traffic in place every day, therefore we can make use of their traffic to leverage on our products to reach out to more consumers. Do you know that Shopee had even invited the local seafood sellers to sell seafood on Shopee Live even before the pandemic? Now this is what we call Innovation. Well if we are in a service line and we just can't seem to know what kind of businesses that we can offer and earn money today we can always sell vouchers in advance. I have received multiple messages from my beauticians last few weeks selling me vouchers. The vouchers are "Buy Now Use Later" vouchers. For example if you are offering a facial package you can always sell the package at discounted price today, to get the cash and let the client know that it can be utilized after the MCO so it is a way for you to settle your cash flow problem as well Tips number three:advertise smartly we have seen a lot of advertisements every day when we browse through social media like Facebook instagrams so it is not a new thing for people to advertise on these platforms. But we tend to forget a super-big platform which is Youtube! Almost 5 billion videos are watched on YouTube every single day. Views from people who watch for beauty tips, schooling tips educational videos, cooking tips are all being searched every day. Any topics, you name it The total hours of videos watch on YouTube every month amounts to 3 billion hours it has gone higher especially during MCO the average viewing session on YouTube can last more than 40 minutes for one person. Not only that YouTube is the second largest search engine in the world, second to Google Google's largest YouTube is a second but right now YouTube is also owned by Google so they are focusing on SEO which is search engine optimization so we can always use YouTube to reach out to more people Traffics on YouTube is cheaper especially because they make use of the search engine to concentrate on their target audience. So if you are selling a beauty product, you can always tell Youtube that you want to target the people who are watching beauty videos every day attract them and divert them into your channel or websites so that's how it works. An entrepreneur  points out ten he needs to spend at least seven USD on Facebook marketing for a conversion whereas on YouTube itself he just need to spend 3 USD to convert a customer. People trust videos and YouTube channels more compared to a product picture alone so if you are advertising your products in a video, people are audience on YouTube they are willing to check you out on your channel and become a returning customer. Advertisements on YouTube look like this. They either play before the video begin or during the intervals of the video Why is moving our business to online platforms so important. One great example will be Christy Ng. Christy Ng, being one of the most popular local designers shoe seller is selling fine quality heels for dinner and weddings Currently, she is suffering from temporary closure of all her 10 retail shops in the shopping malls Even though she has online store, her main business came from all her retail stores. So during the MCO when all her retail shops have to be closed, she has to pay high rentals and wages to all her hundred employees. She is not sure on her business sustainability. Whether we like it or not, we are living online today. So if you're still relying on the offline business. There's no way that we can make it happen so the only way today is to make our business online. The internet market has turned a lot of entrepreneurs into billionaires today great examples like Amazon Facebook Oracle the Google company Alibaba Group have turned these entrepreneurs from someone unknown to someone who all of us know today they all have something in common which is their belief in the internet marketing to help them bring more crowds and traffic into their business to grow them globally and therefore brought them there are huge successes of today I hope that these tips will be able to motivate you to kick-start your businesses online do take action today and earn the most out of it through online businesses if you like my video today don't forget to subscribe to my channel hit the like button and comment down below I'll see you again in my next video bye 