 So, if you are a loyal DIY Niner, then you know, on my way, cool dirt, cheap episodes, I give away free stuff. I've got five Way Cool, dirt cheap, fall DIY decor ideas for you. And today I've got three awesome printables that I will pepper throughout the episode. So you're not going to want to miss a minute of today's episode. So let's get started! So for my first Way Cool, Dirt cheap DIY. I have got a wood round. Now, before we start on this month's wood round, I want to show you last month's and let you know that this one would also work really well with what I've got planned today. But I wanted to do something new, but also hang onto this because I’ve got other ideas of how that we could make the same black and white stripe work with other stuff. So if you haven't seen that episode, make sure you check it out after this one's over and it will give you the instructions on how to do this version. For today's episode. I have got a wood round that I'm really quite excited about, and I've got a free printable to go along with it. I have kind of an Apple theme going on. What I thought it would be really cool is if it kind of had like almost a crate feel or like an Apple barrel round feel, I don't really know how to do SVGs on my design software that I use, but I do have an image that you could download as a ping and then go in and convert it into an SVG file. I have a printable for those of you who do not have a Cricut machine that you can kind of just piecemeal together. Normally I start out by painting this, but we are not painting this today because we are going to kind of leave it in a more rustic state. If you will. Now on this wood round, I'm going to pull out a little fun thing that I haven't used in awhile, and that's my scorch marker and my heat gun. And we are going to do some easy wood-burning. You don't need any fancy skills for this kind of wood burning because this is made for the masses. And I'm excited about this because I feel like it will give a really rustic fall feel. Um, and I think that that will be quite fun. And so if you're doing the image transfer technique, all you're going to do is take your raw wood, lay it down, place your graphite paper on the raw wood. Then you're going to take your graphic that I provided. And there will be a link for this below and you are going to, you could tape it all together, so it matches up nicely. And then we're going to lay it on top of that graphite paper. Then we're going to just take a pencil and trace it on to our wood. And then that will leave the design for you. Then you can do one of two things. Then you can take your scorch marker and fill it in and do the wood-burning technique. Or I thought it would also look great with black chalk paint or even a dark Brown chalk paint. Just something that's really rustic. Now, if you're going to do it the way that I'm going to do, I made a stencil out of vinyl and split had to split it in half because it's too wide to fit on their 12 by 24 inch mat. So you just divide that in half and cut it that way. And then we of course, weed out all of the stuff that we don't use and use the transfer tape. So we're going to just peel off our stencil, place it on the wood, the best we can make sure you're very careful to line the vinyl stencil up before adhering it to your wood round . And then we're going to just fill it in with our scorch marker. It will kind of look slightly pink. So, you know, you've covered it correctly with a scorch marker. Now, my stencil was cut to 17 inches, which is about a half an inch smaller than the actual wood round itself. So there's a quarter inch strip on the whole circumference of the circle. I hope that makes sense. And I decided to fill that in around the edge because I felt like it would really finish that edge off nicely. Then you're going to want to make sure you peel back your stencil prior to burning, and then we're going to take our heat gun. And we are going to burn that image on because of the size of the image. This took me about 15 to 20 minutes to burn on just because I was trying to be very particular. Also, I actually really liked the burn spot. So where there wasn't an actual burning going on. I went back in and popped a little bit of burn spots in after I had the image burned on, I considered staining it, which I keep going back and forth whether or not I should have actually stained it or not, because I do really like it this way, but I'd be really curious to see what it would look like with a warm stain or a gray stain over the top of it. But I really do think that this is a very cool look by itself. So in the end, I just ended up taking some finishing wax and waxing the wood and left it unstained. So what do you think, do you think I should have stained it? Now... you could just use this as a decorative round, but I thought it would also look very cool as a serving tray. So I just took a couple of handles that were left over from my kitchen makeover and spray painted them in an oiled bronze color. Then I hot glued some dollar tree twine around the handles round and round and round. And then I attached the handles to the sides of the tray. Now I think both looks are extremely cool looking and I think that the serving tray would be an awesome gift idea. I picked up the 18 inch wood round at home Depot, $6. Then the supplies came to around $2 as we only use part of a scorch marker and a stencil. If you decided to use paint and my printout, it would be even cheaper. Turning it into the tray only ended up costing me an additional 50 cents as the handles were discarded from my kitchen. I love how this project turned out now for this week's episode, I am collaborating with Courtney over at creative on the cheap, and I wanted her to introduce herself Courtney... [Courtney] Hey everybody. My name is Courtney. If you love budget friendly DIY and home decor projects, I would love for you to visit my channel creative on the cheap after NataLee's awesome fall video today, I would love for you to pop on over and see the festive and very inexpensive. Fall DIYS I've created. These DIYs will definitely give your home that fall festive flair. I hope to see you over there now back to NataLee. All right. So our next way, cool dirt cheap DIY. We are going to be making an Apple topiary sort of like a little centerpiece. And what I've got here is I have got this little cupcake stand it's galvanized .... what is called? it galvanized metal... Whatever. Anyways, I've got this cute little tin cupcake stand that we are going to be using as a base. Now I have this piece of foam from the dollar tree that we're going to cut down just a little bit and I'm going to use my hot knife, just so I don't get lots of stuff everywhere. This is like a nice clean cut because it's hot and you just cut right through it and it's makes it so easy. And then what we're going to do is we're going to take our hot glue gun surebonder love this one. And we're just going to put a little dab of glue on this cupcake. Stand. It should peel off down the road if we don't want to keep this arrangement on it forever, which we might not, because I might want to use it as a cupcake, stand on a tablescape or something like that. And if that's the case, we can pull it off, but it should hold up just fine in the meantime. Before we start, I'm actually going to cover this in some moss... just to kind of disguise the foam in case there's any holes or anything that you don't see that, um, the, the function of the form you'll see Moss, which is kind of fall like. I found these super cute stems with apples on them at Michael's on clearance. So they're on clearance right now. So if you happen to see these, they are like 70% off. So it made them kind of a good deal. And I liked all the branches and the leaves. So we will kind of cut these down and into sections and put them into our arrangement, but we may need to supplement . And then I'm going to use some extra greenery as a filler. I also have a little bit more of this for another DIY that's coming up in just a minute. So it's going to kind of be continuous. I'll use just a little bit of this in our arrangement as an accent. And I got this on super clearance at target. I think it was from the Magnolia collection and didn't pay more than like a dollar for the STEM. So it was super inexpensive Then to kind of fill in. I have this little bag of mini apples. Now I primarily got this for our DIY. That's coming up in a minute that we're going to be using these on a little tiny wreath, but I thought we might need a few extra apples in here. And all I'm going to do is shove them on some bamboo skewers and put them into the arrangement. And not very many of them, just a few, because we need enough for our wreath here in a second. I just love how this arrangement turned out. It might be my favorite one from my Way Cool dirt cheap series of all of the topiaries that I've done. This came in at around $10. And even though it's on the top end of my budget, I think it's worth every penny! So if you watch the summer way, cool dirt cheap episode, I did two versions of a lemonade stand and we are going to be flipping it around and doing the other side. Now I wanted to show you one of the reasons why I don't love mod podging things. When I did this sign, I was actually kind of excited because it turned out really good and the image was nice and flat. And I was like, yes, but ultimately this is what always happens with mod podge paper. And I don't know if it's just because I live in Florida where it's a lot more humid and so the humidity creeps in and messes it up. So if you've got solutions for me on that, help me out because this was perfectly flat. And now you can see that as kind of bubbled up and it just doesn't look good anymore. So I'm not going to be redoing the mod podge version. So what we're going to do is we're going to take this sign where we did the image transfer technique, and we're going to flip it over and do it on the reverse. So you've got dual duty you've got summer. You've got fall all in this. And if you want to see how I put together this little ledge sitter, and then what fun products that I got for free, then I'm going to refer you over to my summer Way Cool, Dirt cheap episode. So all we're going to do is separate it. You see that it should, [lauging] Let's see how good my muscles are. There we go. It does pop out. Now we can work on the back side and I got another free printable for you. It's so cute. And it goes with our big one. That's coming at the very end of this episode. So stay with me to the very end of this episode, if you did want to do mod podge, because you don't have those puckering issues, that I have, then I do have an option and that's this top portion right here. That one you can just cut off and mod podge onto a block of wood or on a ledge sitter. But today we're just going to be doing the image transfer technique because I'm not a fan of this method, unless somebody helps me out and comes up with a better solution for the image transfer one .We're going to be using this reverse image right here... And we're going to just cut that off. And then of course, I've got my liquitex. I've had this for a year or two now. And you know, you just use it a little bit here and there. So this is a great product. I did have somebody tell me that they have used mod podge to do an image transfer technique. Now, I can't vouch for that because I've just never tried actual mod podge. What I have tried is mod podge's image transfer product. And I was not super impressed with that, to be honest with you and this, got me a way better result. So that's why I like the liquitex. So all you do is just kind of brush on a generous amount of it. And then you take your image and you place it face down onto your piece of wood and smooth it out. And then you let it dry for as long as it needs... a few hours. And then once it's fully dried, then we get a bowl of water and you take a sponge or a washcloth and you remove the excess paper and it will leave the transferred image onto the piece of wood, which is really cool because then there's no paper. Then there's our transferred image. And it really, really looks cool. And it kind of has like a rustic farmhouse feel because it's got it kind of an aged feel. You want to kind of be gentle about removing the paper, make sure it's very saturated with water and you want to rub hard enough to remove the paper, but not too hard that it removes the ink. Each time you do this process, you will get better at it. Sometimes I kind of finish out the job with my finger. I feel like I can rub off a little extra paper that way, if you need to let it dry and go back and repeat the process a second time, feel free to do that as well. Now I think I have about 75 cents total into this side of the sign. And that's me being very generous, it's probably a little bit less than that, making this project the least expensive of all of our projects today, but no less adorable. I absolutely love this sign. So for our next fall themed way, cool dirt, cheap DIY. We are going to be making over this. Now we have used this little picture frame for every single Way Cool dirt cheap. And we've done some different things with it. We've put some words on it. We've put some letters, we've put like a bunny on it. And last time I put this little lemon wreath on it and I thought that was so cute that I kind of wanted to do something similar for the fall. And so we're going to be using these little mini apples. And then some of that clearance greenery that I got at target, you won't need very much of it. And then I picked up this little mini wreath, this grapevine wreath at Michaels, it's originally 99 cents. And I had a 20% off coupon. Now, if you can find a 40% off coupon or even the 50% off coupon, you could be 50 or 60 cents in this, but I'm 80 cents in this. And it's still a really good deal. If you haven't seen how we put together, this, this frame, then I'm going to refer you back to the original way Cool, dirt cheap, which was in Valentine's day. And then you can see how I took a wood canvas, essentially that I got from Walmart and flipped it over and used the reverse side and painted it white and black for the trim. And we have used this thing over and over and over. So it's made this project get cheaper and cheaper because we keep using this as a backdrop. So all we're going to do is just kind of remove this off of our back and we're going to reuse this ribbon. Cause I thought this ribbon would look really cute with our fall theme and I think it will still work out really well. So I'm just going to keep this ribbon and set this aside. So where can I be making something that looks very similar. So we're going to take our wreath form and we're also going to take some of these greeneries. And then all we're going to do is take our hot glue gun. And then we're going to glue on all of these little leaves in kind of a circular pattern Then all we're going to do is a glue on our Apples. Then we're gonna put it right back into that ribbon, loop it right through, and then we're going to center it on our frame and then just duct tape it back to the back of the canvas. And that's it. Isn't it so super cute?! If you were making this for the first time, this will cost you a little over $9 to make, but if you've been making this all along with us, because we have used this five times now, it drops cost for you to just barely over $5 and we will continue to use this in the future, making it less and less each time making this a very versatile piece of decor. So last, but certainly not least is my digital print that I give out. And this is a free print and I'll put the link in the description box below with all of the other prints that will all send you to the same spot. But this was my print from last month. And I got a lot of positive feedback on this. And I just love this one. I'm telling you what I have got planned for this time. And then also what I've got planned, cause I've already designed them for Halloween and Christmas... And Christmas, I designed like three of them and winter. So we'll see which one I ended up giving for free. The one I've got for today is so super cute. It's keeping with the Apple theme.. It is... that! As you can see. And really what I love about this DIY is really all you have to do is print it out and then stick it in a frame of your choice. And it is so cute and so easy. You almost can't call it a DIY, but because you have to go to a little effort, I'm going to call it a DIY, but that's just my little gift to you for watching my channel. So you'll notice this one does not have a Stripe in it. And I thought that would work because that would match a lot of people's decor. Last month I had like a French Stripe that went down the middle of it and I also offered it in multiple colors. Well, I am doing it with a French Stripe for this Apple one. You can print it out at home. And then this is like a dollar tree frame that is actually pretty cute. So you can do this for a dollar, but I have this big 16 by 20 that I've had forever. You could do it in the bigger size. I go to staples because I love their print quality. I think it's the best print quality. I love it. And it ends up costing me around 13 or $14, which is a little more than the $10 budget, but you can do it in the smaller size and do it for much less. You can also print it at Costco for $6.99, which is a great price for a big 16 by 20 print. So that's the cheapest place to get it done. So if you want it with a French Stripe, it will be available in my Etsy shop. It's I try to keep their prices down really affordable, and it comes in multiple colors, including this kind of sea foam color. I'll put a link for my Etsy shop and the description box below so you can check that out as well as all of my other prints that I have available in there. And I'm trying to constantly add to the selection there so you can see what it looks like with the barrel top looking one that we made this time and what it looks like with the Stripe one from last time, I think both look super cute. Which one do you prefer? As far as cost, If you're doing the large print, it'll cost you somewhere between seven and $13. And if you do the smaller size, you can get job done for around a dollar 50, which is well under budget and super cute. I might add! If you enjoyed this episode. Here's another one that I think you'll like as well. Don't forget to hit the subscribe button so you don't miss out on any of my episodes. If you joined me over from creative on the cheap, welcome to the DIY Niner family. Thank you so much for watching. We'll see you soon. Bye. 