 Good evening and welcome to virtual climate science on tap. Tonight's event: A Blueprint for our Planet's Future is a co-production of the City of West Palm Beach Office of Sustainability and the University of Florida's Earth Systems Institute. Before we go on, I just want to give some introductions. I'm Elaine Christian. I'm a sustainability program coordinator with the City of West Palm Beach Office of Sustainability. Our main focus is conserving natural resources and reducing emissions within the City of West Palm Beach to ultimately create a healthy, ecologically sustainable and resilient city for you. We're here to help you do the right thing, make a difference and take care of our planet. We're striving to reach Net Zero 2050 by collaborating with you, our community residents, businesses schools and all city departments. This means reducing greenhouse gas emissions through less cars on the roads, making our city more walkable, offsetting emissions by planting more trees and many more. I encourage you all to visit our web page WPB.org/green and follow our social media pages too. WPB Green on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter for more information on the various programs and free resources that we offer. The Climate Science on Tap series is a great example of one such program and, as I mentioned before, we collaborate with all city departments and we're partying with economic development to bring the climate science on top series to you. Chris Roog wanted to be here but it looks like he may not be on yet so I just want to give a shout out to Chris. He is helping sponsor our prizes tonight. After trivia will be gift cards to Civil Society Brewing. So I'm going to go ahead and hand it off to Karl who is with Civil Society. Hi Karl, would you like to say a few things? Yeah, thanks for having me on. My name is Karl Volstead with Civil Society. Just a couple things about us. We opened in Jupiter Florida in 2015 and we opened our second location in West Palm Beach and February of 2019. And then to go along with the conversation as far as sustainability goes and things like that, we brew beer. So we use grain to brew beer and we take that grain and we give it to farmers for a cycle here to local farmers burger for beef and pigs and whatever you know they need. So it kind of always goes back. As far as that brew, we specialize in what's called hazy IPAs. So look the photo there. You're going to see a unfiltered hazy looking beer. Don't let the term IPA fool you. We're not super super bitter. We use hops differently. So it's more fruit forward and it's a totally different thing from what you would think of with a normal IPA. But I just really want to thank you guys for the opportunity to speak tonight and looking forward to the rest of the show. Thank you so much, Karl. And everyone I just want to remind you our gift prizes for trivia tonight are going to be gift cards to Civil Society so you can go and try that beer for free. That sounds good. My name is Stephanie Killingsworth and I'm with the Thompson Earth Systems Institute or TESI and we're located at the University of Florida's Gainesville campus. Our mission is to advance communication and education of Earth system sciences in a way that inspires Floridians to be effective stewards toward our planet. What are Earth systems you ask? It's the interactions between air, land, water and life and how humans influence those. We do this in three different program areas. The first of which is our Scientists in Every Florida School program which builds long-term relationships between teachers and scientists in order to inspire the next generation of and environmental stewards. Our team of trained communicators and educators also put on public programs such as this event this evening. We produce digital content to help people engage in science in a meaningful way. And lastly we help both scientists and journalists hone their communication skills through our science communications professional development programs. Our vision is to lead the way to a healthier planet by cultivating a responsible and curious society that values, trusts and has access to science. We want to encourage you tonight to sign up for our Earth to Florida newsletter. It's a monthly bulletin that curates the state's environmental news and explains what's going on, why it matters and what you can do about it. If this sounds like something that piques your interest, you can find a link to subscribe at the top of the chatbox. And if you'd like to learn a few fun facts about Florida's natural history, some of its plants and animals - please do so by visiting us on our Instagram account @knowyourFlorida to impress your friends with a little bit of Florida knowledge. Finally you can keep in touch with us by visiting us at our website seen here on your screen as well as following us on social media at Facebook and Twitter @UF earth systems. So we are super excited to be partnering with the City of West Palm Beach for the climate science series on tap and we are also super excited to present to you our extremely dynamic and might I say funny guest this evening. Tonight we bring you Eric Corey Freed. He's an award-winning architect, author and global speaker. As senior vice president of sustainability for cannon design, he leads the health care education and commercial teams towards better and higher performing buildings. For two decades, he was founding principal of organic architect a visionary design leader in bio philic and regenerative design. His past roles include VP of the International Living future Institute as well as chief community officer of eco districts. Both of these nonprofits pushing innovative new paradigms for building green buildings and communities. Eric is also the author of 11 books, including green building and remodeling for dummies. He's been named one of the top 10 most influential green architects as well as fills American Architecture's top 25. He also holds a prestigious LEED fellow award from the US Green Building Council. Before we turn things over to Eric, we want to go over just a few housekeeping items with you that you can reference at any time this evening at the top of the chat box. First of all, we can't have a virtual science on tap unless you've got your beverages and snacks nearby. So go ahead and get yourself situated, you'll want those with you. We also ask that you write any questions for Eric tonight in the chat box and we'll be sure to get to them in just a little bit. If you need to move your zoom presenters windows for any reason, you can do that by clicking and dragging that window around your screen. And we want to make sure, like Elaine mentioned, that you pay extra close attention this evening because we've got a trivia game (live Kahoot) and there are chances for those prizes and the giveaways to Civil Society Brewing tonight. In order to play, if you have a phone handy that's going to be a helpful tool. For our Facebook live audience, if you want to participate in the trivia we have put the Zoom link registration in the comments box and we ask that you join us through zoom tonight so you get a fair chance and finally we encourage you to take a moment at the end of tonight's Climate Science on Tap in order to take a one-minute survey to let us know about your experience this evening. So I think without any further ado, we're going to turn things over to Eric so we can explore a blueprint for our planet's future. Thank you. Eric, take it away. Thank you everybody and thanks for having me. It's weird that we can't all be in person but you know that's kind of the way it works. Let's see sorry hold on one sec. I'm having an issue. There we go. Okay now. Sorry, it's not letting me share my screen. Okay, come on. Alright we'll do this the old-fashioned way. Okay. Alright, hopefully you can see. Which screen can you see Stephanie by the way? It's in present mode. We see the next - yeah it's not. It's not working. I don't know why just worked earlier today. Alright we'll do it this way. Okay so hi everybody I'm sorry I can't be there in person but you're not there in person either. We're all virtual. This is the way it's going to be. I'm in Portland Oregon right now and I would have loved to been there because my mother lives in West Palm and that's you know part of what got me excited about doing this and then you know 1918 happened all over again and and we can't be there. If you are a tweeter and one of those tweeter type people you can tweet at me here and then there's my email address too. So if you want to contact me you can do that and normally we'd be all in person in a big room and there would be laughter and laughter is fun and I can't hear any of you because you're on mute. So you know I'm just going to imagine you're laughing which is really weird to me as a comedian. But if you're in a quiet place and you want to unmute I guess technically you could and then I can go to say you're somebody laughing. In the meantime, if you see something you like, you could take a screenshot of the screen and then remember it for later and then I'm also happy to share the slides with everybody too. Okay, so I guess I want to take a poll and you're going to have to use the chat so we can kind of do this. But if the y-axis is everything from we're screwed to no we're fine and the x-axis is but I feel great about it so I'm really bummed about it. Where are all of you given what's going on. Like who's in group A where yeah we're screwed but I feel great. Anybody in that bucket? A few. Okay, who's in Group B? Yeah, we're screwed I'm bummed about it. I've been wearing the same sweat pants for three months. Anybody in that? A lot of people. Okay, who's in Group C? I don't know what you're talking about? You know - I live in Florida. I feel fine. Everything's fine. I don't know what air all the hubbub is about. I haven't seen the news in months. Anybody in that? No. Okay and then who's in D? Yeah, we're fine but I kind of have my own issues going on that I'm dealing with slowly. Anybody in that? Alright, well you get a virtual hug. Okay, so the point is is that at any point we're probably all over this spectrum at some point or another and that's understandable but what I want to show you tonight is I want to show you a very different approach to sustainability that you might not be used to or might not have heard before. As you heard, I'm head of sustainability for Canon Design. Cannon Design is a top 15 firm architecture firm and we were named by Fast Company is one of the most innovative companies and it's why I work there. Because every day I get to work with talented, smart & amazing people across all of North America doing amazing things and then I get to be their sustainability person who says stupid things like you know that south wall is going to get hot and then you know they write it down and so that's kind of you know in my life. But I get to work on all types of projects all over the place -health care, education, higher ed, K through 12, businesses, you know corporations, developers, everything in between and so it exposes me to a lot of ideas and lets us really take some really innovative approaches to sustainability because that's what we need. So I guess what I'm trying to say is I'm kind of a big deal. I'm trying to get that across if you didn't pick that up already. No, that's stupid. Okay, so it is weird to talk about sustainability and not address the giant germ in the room and I get it. The last three months have been crazy for everybody and have really caused us to rethink our approach to issues like sustainability and resilience and healthy building and so forth and maybe that's a good thing. You could argue that you know normal wasn't really working for a lot of people and so maybe going back to normal isn't really the answer here. Maybe we can redefine a new normal together. Maybe this is the opportunity that we've really been waiting for and I know it can be bleak. But I also know that things will get better. How do I know that? Because I'm really really old and I just have seen before. Not this of course but you know I'm sure this will pass and soon it'll be fine but in the meantime, it's kind of ridiculous. I get it. I know but maybe this is a chance to rethink everything because sustainability is our only opportunity here. This is our chance to rethink everything. All of the systems of the past 50 years that haven't really been working because buildings actually don't make a lot of sense. We think they do. They look pretty and everybody likes them and stuff. But, in truth, buildings are huge hazards in terms of the climate crisis carbon emissions health and certainly inequity and so this is our chance to rethink all of that. You know - and the way the news covers it is not really great because it's like well what does Taylor Swift really think about climate change? It's like who gives a crap? I mean I care a little bit but still like it doesn't really matter and at the end of the day we don't really cover it in any sort of meaningful way and then everybody just goes back to doing whatever the heck they were doing before and that was all fine. But in the meantime I'm looking around and I'm seeing evidence that maybe we're not going to think our way out of this. I'm seeing a lot of evidence that maybe we're really just not as smart as we think we are and maybe the idea that we're gonna come up with some magical solution isn't really going to work here, especially because the signs are telling me otherwise. And now that you're aware of them you'll start seeing them too. They're kind of all over the place and you know you'll get it. Like I saw this in my in my daughter's school. It wasn't her by the way. But I saw this in my daughter's school and it bothered me. And it took me a while to figure out why it bothered me and so let me explain it to you. It's a sign that says don't give up and the kid well the kid gave up. But that wasn't what bothered me about it. What bothered me was they hung it up. They put it on the wall. Like that really bothered me. Like why would your reward that? And so that's why I'm thinking maybe we're not really going to like engineer our way out of this. Maybe we just need to roll up our sleeves and work hard and do something about it. And if you've been feeling a sense of urgency around sustainability and climate change and hearing more about it, that's because it is urgent. In fact, it really has lately seemed like it's been turned up to 11 because well it has and I'm not a you know I'm not a protester type guy. I don't think of myself as a political person. But, holy crap, how can you not be when the world is literally on fire and everybody's like yes fine? That's fine. You know - I have this great life where I get to travel all over the place and I see the solutions that people are putting in place and I could have to tell you they're not going to work. Some of these things are not really scalable. And so, as a result, we now have all this incredible data. Data that we didn't even have just three years ago telling us about this but you don't need data when you have literal signs of the apocalypse right in front of you telling you there's something going on here and now we're paying the price for decisions that we made decades ago and we're now having to deal with. By the way, I don't know if you all fully appreciate this photograph but this was a very hard photograph. I mean this took weeks in the making and I almost got divorced over this photograph. You know what I'm saying like this is I want you to just to appreciate the artistry here. Okay, so we got a lot of problems and I this is the part of the talk where I feel like debbie downer because all I do is kind of -- you probably all were in a good mood. You know it's Thursday night, you're excited. And now I'm going to ruin it for you with all of the craziness but you know this kind of shows you where we are. And first of all, it turns out that we have 1.6 million people a week moving into urban centers worldwide. And that urbanification is going to keep continuing and then by 2070, you know or 2050, 70% of the world's population will live in cities. And maybe that's a good thing because we can centralized services. But at the same time, we need to build a lot of stuff. We need to build about 92 million square meters just in the next 15 years. So we need to build a lot of stuff for a lot of people in a very short period of time and the way we've been doing it is not going to work. At the same time that is going on, the United Nations says that we have about 60 harvests left before we start to see widespread soil degradation which is really going to affect our food supply. And at that same time, in that same period, we're going to see about 200 million climate refugees worldwide. And these climate refugees are not going to look like what you think of as refugees and these are going to be everybody from everywhere all the time, including Floridians. You guys are at the frontline of the climate crisis in North America whether you realize that or not. And to give you a sense of scale 200 million was the size of the entire Roman Empire at its peak. So it's a lot of people. It's like a big thing, right? So we've literally redrawn the maps of the world just in the last few decades. The tropics have grown by 38 miles per decade. The Sahara desert has increased 10% since the 1920. Tornado alley, for some reason, has moved 500 miles to the east. The permafrost line keeps moving and inching forward to the north. The hardiness zones have shrunk by 13 miles for the decade. And the wheat belt has shrunk by 160 miles in that decade. We've reached drawn the lines of the globe and now we're paying the price for this and you're feeling that this. Climate change is not this abstract distant thing. This is happening now. Today. This is my computer fetching the latest climate science data. You can see this is the carbon levels in the atmosphere. Over 416 parts per million. The last time carbon levels were this high was 2 million years ago and there were trees at the South Pole at that point. So this is truly unprecedented. We've never had carbon levels this high and half of it has occurred in the last three decades. So we don't know how to handle this. All of our measurements have been largely optimistic but now they're coming in worse than we even thought and in Florida when I talk to people about it they're respond has been "oh no, it's fine because I'm like I'm like seven feet above sea level" and I want to say to them that "no, that's not that's not enough feet like you need you need more feet." It's funny how by the way in Florida everybody knows how high they are above sea level. I find that very interesting. Anyway, we just finished a decade, right? 2020 just started and you know most people when they finish the decade they like to look back on the hits of the decade. Most people do this with movies or music. I do this with climate science. So let me show you some of the big hits from 2010 to 2019, shall we? First of all, the 5 highest years on record have all occurred in the last five years. In fact, that's just going to be something that we say now because 2020 is not even halfway done and it's probably gonna be one of the five hottest years on record. In fact, 18 of the 19 hottest years on record have all occurred in this century. So this is just the way things are now. At the same time, four of five largest California wildfires occurred in this past decade and it's just going to continue to get worse. They're entering wildfire season now and they're scared. We saw six category 5 hurricanes in just four years which is a new record. And unfortunately, most of them targeted you guys in the southeast. At the same time, the Arctic sea ice hit an all-time low. Shrunk 13% in that decade and we had more 100-year floods than ever before and now they're officially classified as five-year floods. And what this really means is that in any year there's a 1% chance of that flood occurring. Now there's a 20% chance. That's really what that means. At the same time, we had over a hundred of these billion dollar climate disasters double what it was the decade before and in that same period we pumped more than 40 billion tons of co2 into the atmosphere. Another new record. So we're not learning anything from our mistakes. So all of this is leading us to this idea that we're going to go well above our target of two degrees of warming and we're going to get into the three degrees & four degrees of warming which by the way is going to be a radically different way of life for Florida. Again, I'm sorry about being so depressing but I just wanted you to know where you fit into all this. And largely our projections have been trying to be optimistic for the last 50 years because we didn't want to freak everybody out but now everything's happening at such an alarming rate we were too optimistic. And so we really need to ring the bell here. And so this idea that we're going to somehow become profoundly better people and and learn from our mistakes and really take climate change seriously I'm kind of over that now because I don't know if you know this about people but most people are awful. I mean I am too. I'm a terrible person. So this idea that we're suddenly going to become her miraculously open-minded and I don't think that's going to happen especially when you know the country is fighting about everything else at the same time. So we need change and we need big change fast change in a very short period of time and change makes people uncomfortable. I get it. I don't believe that there are people that are you know ignorant of climate science and those that aren't. I don't think it's really that simplistic. I think, in fact, what you have is you have people that are seeing the science and they get it and they're scared of the science. That's me. That's what I put myself in that category. And then you have people that see the science and don't want to pay attention to because they're scared of the change that that science represents. And that makes a lot of sense to me. You know I get to go all over the country and talk to a lot of people. This really more accurately sums up what I'm feeling from everyone. So all of this has changed my priorities as an architect in a profound way. Every project we work on matters. Every project we work on has to target this. Every building we work on houses target NetZero energy. It has to. We can't just wait for the good buildings. or the special buildings. It doesn't work that way. So in my firm, we build about 20 million square feet a year. I'm pushing them on all 20 million square feet to make all of it as green as humanly possible because it all matters. We can't wait and most buildings are not designed for this. Most buildings are really built around a set of assumptions that is no longer true and in fact those assumptions maybe never were true. This idea of unlimited abundant cheap energy was really kind of only for maybe a few decades and that was kind of it. And now we're seeing the ramifications of designing entire cities around assumptions that are not no longer true. That's kind of the problem. By the way, I like this image too. Okay, so what I think happened was I think that you had a whole bunch of architects look at the movie Blade Runner and they thought that was a documentary. I think that's kind of what happened and, if that's the case, they kind of missed the point of the movie. I don't know if they've seen it or not. But it turns out that the way buildings work is just a failure across the board. Buildings are failures in terms of energy, in terms of health, in terms of how they use water, how they produce waste, how they use up our resources and even in terms of costs because they're relatively still very expensive. In fact, the only place the buildings really work is in creating equity for shareholders. You sell your house, you make a profit - great. But everything else kind of sucks and so this is our chance to rethink all of those systems and really design something better because we have to build a lot of stuff in a short period of time. We have to build the equivalent of New York City every five weeks for the next thirty three years. Just in order to meet demand. And I don't think we're going to get there. So this is our chance to really rethink what a house could be. What it should be made out of. And just doing it the old way is not going to work because if you plan for cities cars in traffic you get cities cars in traffic and yet if you plan for community and walkability and vibrancy that's what you get. And as silly as it is for me to have to say that, that's basically what we have to tell our clients is like let's not plan for the worst let's plan for the best and then that's what you end up getting. So create your visions now of what you want southern Florida to be. You can transform it in a radical way to make something truly amazing. We're working right now with the University of Florida for the Gainesville campus and we're building a new Student Health Center for them and we're making it the healthiest building on campus and so our process really was about what does that even mean? How do you define that? How do you measure it? What would it mean for the students? What would it mean for the staff? What would it even mean for the campus to put the healthiest building on there? Does that create a competition for the other buildings? How does that work? And so you can envision this future and that's what you can get people excited around because to build any other way any old traditional if you really think about it it's kind of a form of climate denial. And I'm as guilty of it as anybody, right? Any time that I advocate for a car centered lifestyle. Any time that we're building to code minimum. Any time we're using a you know material like copper or an intensive material like concrete. Any time we're doing any of those traditional things, isn't that really ignoring the data and the science that you know to be true? Isn't that kind of pretending and hoping that it doesn't exist? And that's something I struggle with as an architect who's building lots of space all over the country. And so that's why every project matters. That's kind of the problem. If you're wondering about how to understand it in your own brain, I'm going to make it very clear for you. We are more sure that greenhouse gases cause climate change than we are that smoking causes cancer. That's really it in terms of the science and the debate and that should kind of be a good if anything talking point for a lot of people and because of this we've seen amazing results, right? We've seen now 130 banks adopt new climate policies as they pull all their money away from fossil fuels. About 47 trillion in assets. We've seen the city of New York say that their biggest emitter are buildings and they're radically changing how new buildings are built and how existing buildings are operated. We've seen that mass timber has become this global trend in construction because it is a zero carbon way of building buildings. Unlike steel and concrete, mass timber is a way to use renewable wood grow more trees and really sequester carbon at the same time. At the same time, we saw Europe's biggest emitter of carbon dioxide, they decided to be climate neutral by 2040 and they're already ahead of schedule. We've seen other firms like the Bank of England said that any firms that ignore the client climate crisis are going to go bankrupt. And at the same time, Moody's, their credit risk agency, said that any city that doesn't address resiliency issues is facing a downgrade in their credit rating and they even bought a climate data firm showing that they're going to really start scrutinizing you doing that. So suddenly now finances and and climate crisis are intertwined. At the same time, coca-cola realized that climate change is threatening their business for their water supply and they're making deep steps to deal with it. AT&T now reports on their annual shareholder reports just for example just a couple years ago that they lost 627 million dollars due to climate change and they're reporting this to all their shareholders so their shareholders can insist they do something about it. At the same time, Exxon got sued by their own shareholders and they won. And now Exxon has to deal and report about how climate change is hurting their investment. At the same time, Exxon dropped out of S&P 500 top ten lists for the first time in history which really to me signaled the end of the oil age. And for a lot of you might be nodding your head but this really to me signifies that the age of oil especially cheap oil is now over. BNP Paribas which is the eighth largest lender in the world, they cut all their ties to fossil fuels. The World Bank ended all their financing for oil and gas exploration the entire country of France said that they're just going to ban internal combustion vehicles entirely by 2040 and they're going to join these six other countries that do the same thing. At the same time, you saw that most of the large insurance companies in the world, these are the six big ones, they've all divested themselves from fossil fuels and one of them in particular zurich said that if you have more than 30% exposure in fossil fuels that you are quote uninsurable and we will work with you for two years to teach you how to get off of oil. That's kind of unheard of. At the same time, California which is the fifth largest economy in the world said that they're going completely carbon neutral by 2045 and they're really holding themselves to their word and then 18 cities including my city of Portland all joined a commitment to become carbon neutral too. So kudos to West Palm for your commitment to this as well it's kind of amazing really and very very difficult. Trust me I know all about it. Okay, at the same time, we had 51 CEOs from 20 different economic sectors across 150 countries it's about 1.3 trillion in revenue, these 51 CEOs wrote an open letter last year saying that we need ambitious bold action for climate change and we need it now. At the same time, the World Economic Forum released their Global Risk report and you can see the risks in the upper right corner all of them are climate related essentially and they're going to revise this now to include pandemics in that but anyway and all of the central bank of England 34 central bank's across five continents said they also wrote an open letter saying that if you're not addressing climate change you don't deserve to be in business. We also saw 100 the world's largest companies have all committed to a hundred percent renewable energy in some sort of timeframe and these are not hippie companies. These are companies that you all know and love and use all the time GM Clif Bar Citibank Facebook. So this is happening whether you realize it or not. I was in Chicago last year and I saw this this is a net zero energy McDonald's. It's right on Dearborn Avenue by the way if you want to go take a look and I went in there and they still sell you know cow meat but still it's you know it's a start. And then this is here in my town of Portland. This is a net zero energy Domino's complete with electric vehicle out front which is just kind of cute and you know you got to realize that where we are now the position that we're in that didn't sneak up on anybody. We're not the victims here. This is really all part of the plan. This is 75 years of bad planning decisions. Deliberate bad planning decisions to get us here to this car centric fossil fuel-based emitting carbon climate creating culture. So we really have nobody to blame but ourselves really and the one thing that we didn't know is that it would make the earth uninhabitable in the process. That's kind of the one thing we weren't expecting but in the meantime everything else was part of the plan and so climate change is so big it's what I call an out-of-context problem. You can't even understand it it's so big because it's happening everywhere all at once in varying forms and so how do you explain that to people to make them care about it and not just shut down? Which is I totally understandable. Let me tell you a story. During World War two, there were the string of South Pacific Islands and because the military was going through there they were taking care of the villagers because all the other supply chains were cut off. And once a week a cargo crate would be delivered and would land on the beach and the villagers on these islands didn't know what was going on in the rest of the world and so every day they'd start to chant for the cargo crate to arrive and they do special dances and prayers and then the cargo crate  would land and it became part of their culture and part of their tradition and then World War two ended and the crates stopped coming. Yet they continued to dance. Yet they continued to show up and do it and not even realize why. I like to think that we are part of that cargo crate cult thinking. That we're still doing this dance of we're going to put highways everywhere. Where people just drive everywhere and that's just going to be the way it is. Because we don't even know why anymore it just became part of our tradition. So this is our chance to rethink that. Widening the highways isn't going to help us here. We need to rethink everything especially the last 75 years of planning data and Florida is a ripe place to do this. They say the trying times are for trying. Well this is it. So let's try stuff. Let's try crazy stuff. There's lots of rating systems you can use. I've worked with all of these systems. I've helped launch some of these systems and they're great but they are not the end-all be-all here, right? They're a good place to start but they're just at the end of the day just tools and like any tool they're really only as good as the person using them, right? It's after all it's just a tool and so how you use the tool will determine how useful it is and how beneficial and how efficient. By the way, this video goes on for eight minutes. So I'm not going to do it and in case you're wondering he never gets the shirt down which is even more frustrating. Okay, so what we need are ideas. What we need are visionary big ideas and we're good at ideas. You come up with ideas all the time, like you goat yoga. That was a great idea, right? What a clever idea that was. So let's put our creative thinking caps on and figure out how to fix this. How to redefine this in a very bold way. This is our opportunity to do that. This is our opportunity to rethink everything and find a way to make it more fair and equitable and wonderful and beautiful and livable and thrival for everybody. Let's make every building a green building and it turns out if you do that there's a lot of benefits too. My buddies at Stok, which is a consultancy in San Francisco, they did a report on high performance buildings. You can download it for free and they found that having a high performance green building boost productivity and workers by 9% and that translates to a bottom benefit of about 6% boost in their profit margins. All told having an inefficient building with poor air quality reduces your productivity by about $15,000 per employee per year every year. In other words, you can't afford not to build a green building so keep that in mind. The climate is changing so we must be changing. That's really the long and short of it. And so, if we're going to holistically think of this, how do we do this? So I put this together as kind of a guide for you. Doesn't it make sense that we should make buildings that don't solely depend on human labor? Because every construction site has a labor shortage. And until we fix that maybe we should start to look at more automated or prefabricated options. We need to find ways to speed construction, scale the assembly and lower cost for everybody equitably all the time. That's clear across the board. But in terms of sustainability, we also need to find ways to eliminate or reduce waste, sequester carbon at the same time, avoid all known toxins and carcinogens and increase biodiversity. This is our finish line. This is our big vision. This is our moonshot. This is what construction needs to be and I know that it's hard to do but at least now we know what the finish line looks like. So what we're doing is we're trying everything. We're experimenting with 3d printing to see how that works. We're doing prefabrication to see how that can work. And we're building whole hospitals out of prefabricated units. It's actually kind of amazing. We're even playing with automation to see well what would look like if robots were to build these things and it turns out robots never complain and never take a lunch break. So they're they're kind of amazing actually. And we're doing a lot with mass timber and trying to build out of mass remember more and more and more because it is the only scaleable zero-carbon solution that already has a way to build it in code. Your code in the state of Florida already allows for mass timber a little bit and hopefully soon in the future it'll allow for a lot but it's something to consider and believe it or not it would work well even in humid Florida. How does it work? Well if you have just 10% adoption across the board all new buildings being built were mass timber you can see that mass timber still ends up sequestering a little bit of carbon, right? It gives off a little but it saves more but the equivalent in steel and concrete wood a lot of carbon. And then if we switch that to half of the adoption, you can see the mass timber is still sequestering even more carbon and we've cut the steel in concrete in half which makes sense. And at ninety percent adoption, suddenly we're sequestering a lot of a carbon storing it in the wood and we've really cut down on the amount of steel and concrete emissions that we're doing. To me this is the only scaleable way that we can kind of get out of this mess okay. And then lastly, all of this brings me to my brand new focus and what that looks like and I want to share this with you and I'd love your feedback on it. If there's something I'm missing, I'd love to hear that too. But generally, what I'm looking for is radical efficiency. And I don't use that word radical lightly. Radical sufficiency. Let's build things that are appropriate for that place in that climate. Radical simplicity. Why do we keep adding corners to everything? All we're doing is making things more expensive. Let's dumb it down for a while. Radical electrification. Let's stop burning things inside buildings where people work and sleep and play. That doesn't make a lot of sense. Radical decarbonisation. Let's clear the air and radical restoration let's restore the nature that we destroyed in the process. And if we do these six things it also creates a seventh one. For radical community really opens up opportunities to really connect to your community in a in a vibrant thriving interesting way that we've never really seen before. This is my road map. This is what we're trying to do on every building. This is my focus and like I said you're welcome to it. You're welcome to revise it. You're welcome to critique it if you like but this is what I'm going by and this is 30 years in architecture struggling with these philosophical issues of how do we build in a responsible way. What are you holding on to here? Traditional buildings are gross. They're weaker. They're disgusting actually. So what are we holding on to here? What is the nostalgia we have for the old way of building? It doesn't really work. We don't sell people on sustainability. What we do is I sell them on outcome. I'll show you these are the 10 outcomes that I typically use and their benefits really this is what we get clients excited about, right? If they're doing an office, we talk about lowered absenteeism. If they're doing a workplace, higher worker productivity. If it's it's just a school, boosting cognitive performance. Higher evaluations on the real estate. Retaining talent. Lowering insurance premiums. Cutting operating costs. These are the outcomes that we sell at the beginning of the project before we've even designed anything so I can design to these outcomes and then we use sustainability to achieve them. That's what we do. And if you start to get people excited about that, suddenly that's a level of potential they've never seen before. So I don't go in and say "hey, do you want a LEED building?" Because they're just going to go no. Instead I say you want to keep paying $40,000 a month for electricity because that's what you're doing now. And suddenly that opens up a whole new world to them. I reframe the question and you can do it with anything. Don't say "do you want LEED?" "Hey do you want to keep having employees sick days because that's costing a lot of money and because I can affect those outcomes too." That's the trick. Sell them on outcome. Not on sustainability. That gets people excited and when you work with that type of excitement that type of potential problems start to go away because everybody wants to get part of that. Everybody wants to participate in that and so suddenly problems become opportunities. It's very exciting way to treat sustainability in a new way. Look, I know you don't like change, I know nobody likes change. I know that our brains are wired to resist change but the construction industry has to change. When I started out, we used to draw things like this- blueprints remember those? Using fractions. Imagine that. And now today I have parametric modeling where I'm able to design the way nature does. When Antonio Gaudi was doing his model for the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona, he had to use chains upside down to try to mimic the forces of gravity. And today, I've got free software that my students use that they downloaded for free that does the same thing faster. It's amazing, right? That's what it means to change. Things change. In fact, when I was a kid this is what I was told Pluto looked like and today pluto's a little different. That's changed. Get over it. That's fun. That's exciting. So imagine the change that's possible. You're the heroes of this story. It's up to you. It's your community. I can only be your cheerleader but I need you to step in and say this is the change that we need and I know it's hard. I know at times being the hero is exhausting. I get that too. But at the same time I also know that if Tupac could released seven albums after he died you can do this. You can pull this off. This is doable. This is possible. And if we do that, isn't that the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow? Isn't that really going get I don't know everybody excited? Okay, that's my time. Thank you for listening. Thank you for coming. If you want to copy the slides, text the word "green" to that phone number. That's not my number by the way so don't send me any weird pics but if you text the word "green" to that number you'll get an automated response. And otherwise I think that's my time and I'm happy to take questions and then we have a trivia piece too, right? Ao thank you all. Eric thank you so much for taking the time to share your expertise with us today. if any viewers have questions please write them in the chat box and I will ask them on your behalf. Eric - our first question comes from Lara who actually has a two-part question. She says would you say that most architects take into account the environmental implications of their work? And then she also asks are there certain environmental guidelines that architects must adhere to? I would say that it's fair to say that every architect knows their impacts on the planet. I think that's fair to say. I think our big group is called the American Institute of Architects. Last year, at our annual meeting for example we voted 93 to 7 that architects have a moral responsibility to offer climate solutions to their clients. So an overwhelming majority. That being said, I also know that a lot of architects don't know exactly how to address it. When I first came to Cannon, you're talking about a big company with 1,200 people I was worried that nobody would be interested in it and I was delightfully surprised to find everybody was interested in it and not only that there are a lot of people with deep technical knowledge about it but they weren't kind of offering these up to clients because they were kind of waiting to be asked and so it created this chicken-and-egg of well nobody's asking so I'm not going to offer it and the clients aren't offering because nobody's offering it to them and you know and so you had to kind of break that vicious cycle. And so that's what we did. We don't ask. We don't wait for the clients. We just forced it on them for lack of a better word but we're offering up these really cutting-edge solutions right away. Early on. And we're doing it even before we get the job we're doing in the pursuit phase and so that's the way to handle it. You got to kind of break that cycle. And is there a tool to use? There's lots of tools. There's amazing tools. Tools that didn't even exist three years ago but if you're looking for a simple one to get started I suggest the LEED rating system. You have actually a robust green building chapter in Florida that I know very well and have a lot of dear friends involved in and so get involved with them and they'll show you how to apply LEED to your projects and you can even use it as a if anything a suggestion list of what to do if you don't want to go through the whole certification. Adam asks when you refer to 60 harvests, does that mean 60 years? Yes. Yeah I mean it's grand. I don't know. I mean - what a the bummer of a question but it's my fault for bringing it up. Yeah, I get it. Yeah sixty years. We had quite a bit of people asking all about the idea of retrofitting old buildings and how do you weigh the consequences of whether it's worth it to build a new building or retrofit and green an old one? That's a tough decision and truly one that you almost have to make on a building by building basis, right? So it depends on the building. But think about all the effort that went into making that original initial existing building. All the steel, all the concrete, all the labor- everything. And we call that upfront effort. We call that embodied carbon because it really talks about the effort into it. So is it worth tearing all that down just to get something that's a little different? No but if you're taking a two-story building and building a skyscraper on it then obviously that's probably a different story. So how do we recapture some of that embodied carbon and if we're tearing down an old building maybe we don't throw it in the dump but we can recycle reuse repurpose redistribute some of that material. So it really depends but you know we're really pushing to try to reuse as many existing buildings as possible and architects don't tell you this but you know obviously we enjoy just building new stuff because then we get to do whatever we want but the truth is we're really really good at transforming old existing buildings to the point where you couldn't even recognize them from what they used to be. I mean that's kind our secret skill and so if given the chance we're happy to do that too. So maybe it's just raising the question of is this building worth saving? Our next question comes from Brandi who asks what do you suggest smaller scale individuals can do to help when it comes to either bringing up the issue at work to their superior or within their own home? Well brandi, I think I think there's two sides to that coin. For your employer, I would definitely bring it up. I would ask questions but not know in kind of a bully way. But more of is this important to the company? How are we addressing this? Are we looking at carbon? Are we looking at energy? Are we looking at water? Are we looking at equity? And just be prepared for them to say well no we're not. But maybe you can take it on and handle it. So maybe you end up changing your job description at the same time. I have a lot of friends that ended up doing that, right? They started in one department and they ended up becoming the sustainability leads for their company just because they were asking those questions and maybe that's the change we need right now. As for your own house, I mean there's tons of you know the tiny things you can do. You know drive less, bike more, walk more, bring a reusable bag to the store, all of that crap. It all adds up but you know at the end of the day I'd much rather see you change policy that affects thousands of people than you have to remember to bring these reusable canvas bags everywhere. You know we're really if we're really kind of nit picking here. I think I'm at the point where we don't have a lot of time to get everybody up to speed and feel comfortable. We really have to do some dramatic changes very quickly and because of that the incremental tiny changes from lots of people is great and  I would never dissuade anybody from doing that but in truth I think you should all think bigger. In other words, what would it take to get your city to commit to zero carbon within a 10-year time frame? That's what we're looking at and so what would it take to do that? I won't say the name of the campus but there's a school in Florida that we were talking to and we were in a meeting with the marketing people and said we know we're going to be carbon neutral by 2020 and I said you know it's already June 2020, right? And they kind of laughed and said "oh my god we've been saying that for ten years and you're right oh I guess we have to change our goal." So they quickly changed it to 2025. But now 2025 is really only 42 months away so now we're helping them kind of create a plan for what are you going to do in the 42 months to get there because. Otherwise you're just gonna wait another five years and and then change the date again. It doesn't make any sense. Bruce is wondering what type of work do you do to involve politicians and these kind of ideas and concepts for the future? Politicians are - they're different than you and they're not normal people. I found that alone in a room because I've been alone in a room with lots of electeds that's what--that's we call them. Alone there they're really knowledgeable about every issue but they refuse to take a stand unless they have to. Look at what's going on now in 100 cities across the country and how suddenly people that ignored an issue now are suddenly taking it very seriously. Does it take that level of protest? I hope not but what it does take is you raising the question to your electeds. This is a big election year and maybe this is the year to ask what their policies and stances are in this and once politicians know that this is important to you then they'll start talking about it. I mean I live in Oregon. One of my state senators has a complete climate change platform that he runs on and he does not give a hoot about what anybody thinks and he's doing it but Oregon's a pretty small state compared to Florida. So in your state it's a little more complicated but get to talk about it would be a big thing. Asking questions about it would be a big thing. Them even mentioning it in a debate is the big thing. So  let's get them doing that. All right and our final question from our viewers before we begin to wrap up this evening is kind of a big one. It asks what gives you hope for the future? Whether it's for Florida's future or for the country or the world as a whole. When it comes to such a heavy topic, how do you stay optimistic or what keeps you going or motivated? You know it's funny because I find that I'm going on my 29th year in sustainable architecture, I moisturize a lot in case you're wondering and I find that I'm more hopeful and optimistic today than I ever have been oddly enough. In part because I want to be. Like who wants to run around going this is crap man? Like who wants to just do that all the time? Like you need to have hope and you need to look forward to it. You need to get up knowing that you're working towards fixing the problem so I just want to be hopeful but the other part of it is I have a daughter who's about to turn 12 and in 2050 the world's gonna be a very different place than it is now. So when she's basically my age you know what kind of world am i leaving her? And what kind of world are we leaving for one another? So what gives me hope are young people, right? You've seen this time and time again you had a terrible shooting in South Florida and those kids changed the debate on gun control over night changed the debate. Did they go as far as they wanted to? No but they changed the debate. They changed the conversation. That is amazing and unfortunately we've given them a crappy hand and they've taken and they've run with it and they are powerful and mobile and fearless and amazing and you know I applaud the young people that have to be given this crappy hand that the old farts like me have left for them. But you know for 30 years I was trying and trying and trying with a lot of other people and getting nowhere and I think now I'm at the point of we can't wait for you to feel good about it. We just have to force it on you and so seeing what young people can do is amazing and getting old people involved would be even more amazing and getting everybody involved is ultimately what we need. So that's what gives me hope. Well Eric, I can't thank you enough for taking the time to be with us this evening. We really really appreciate it and with that I'm going to turn the floor over to a Eliane for a little bit of trivia. Alright so as I mentioned in the chat box go ahead and grab your two devices. So one that you're watching this presentation on and another one that you can log on to Kahoot. So I'm going to start sharing my screen now and we'll get this trivia game going. So you'll need to log on to www.kahoot.it and enter the game PIN. Okay I'm going to go ahead and start now and so five out of five of the past five years hottest on record. Let's see who remembers this one. Awesome. Those two hundred million. That's kind of a tricky one. I'm sorry guys. It was in there though. He talked about that so. Good job you guys. Alright and I think we have one more- no two more sorry - so yeah we talked about that for a little bit too with Eric. Our last one. Well that must have been a tough one. All right let's see who our top winners are. In the third place. there are runners up are Colleen you're in fourth place. So I am going to move and so here you go so please email me @ eChristian@wpb.org to claim your prize. So we have our prizes listed there so please make sure to email me and we'll get those over to you and I just want to say thank you. That wraps up tonight's Virtual climate science on tap. We hope you've enjoyed the conversation. We'd like to thank you our partners and a special thanks to Eric Cory Freed for being here with us tonight. For more information about our guests as well as our programs, please visit the websites on your screen - oh we didn't add the websites - I'm sorry guys we will email those out and please visit our social media. As well, a recording of tonight's climate science on tap can be found on the UF Thompson earth systems YouTube channel. Remember to complete the survey at the end of the program and stay tuned for our next on top event which is set for July 14th. Once again thank you and enjoy the rest of your evening. Bye everyone. 