  Hello. My name is Bharath Ajendla. I'm with SAP S/4HANA Product Management Group focusing on the topics related to integration. Today I will be talking about how we are making integrations with S/4HANA and other SAP applications-- as well as non-SAP applications-- easier. SAP was founded close to more than 50 years ago. And since the beginning, we've been playing a major role in supporting the mission-critical and doing business processes in, really, a holistic way. Over the years, we built many modular line of business applications. Some of them are based on homegrown technologies and some are acquired. And one of the challenges that SAP has that our customers faced was, especially, some of these acquired solutions are not based on the same technology stack, or not on the data model, so the integration has become a challenge. In order to address it over the years-- the focus was on the APIs as well as building point-to-point integrations-- now we are taking things next level-- since the middle of last year, beginning of this year-- we have taken the integration topic into next level by looking at it more holistically. So today, again, I will be talking about in the first half, how we are making S/4HANA to other SAP application integration easier. And secondly, in how we are making the non-SAP application integration easier. Since the success of ECC or R/3 was based on the support of end-to-end business processing in one data model, we want to go back to our roots, in a way, in looking at all of our applications in an end-to-end business processes. So that being said, we consider our SAP intelligent enterprise suite into these four major business processes, starting with lead to cash, source to pay, recruit to retire, and design to operate. Middle of this year, our CEO Christian Klein actually published a SAP strategy paper on integration plan in the cloud. For integration and practitioner solution architects, enterprise architects, and people from CIO office, it's really important that you go through this particular slide-- white paper-- that talks about how we are making integration easier. So first, we wanted to break down the silos by looking at all of our applications in these end-to-end mega-business processes. And for example, recruit to retiring was one of them. It comprises of more than one SAP application. In this case, SuccessFactors, Fieldglass, Concur, et cetera. And this is supported by common set of suite qualities which I'm going to go through in a minute. And most importantly, at SAP, we're also making automation changes to support this strategy. And there are a lot of these innovations underway already. So what are the suite qualities? Earlier, until the middle of last year, we looked at integration mainly through either API maturity or point-to-point integration maturity. And it is clear to us that it is just not sufficient. So we are taking this to the next level by investing heavily on these certain suite qualities so that all these different applications start to feel like one end-to-end business process starting with the seamless user experience. In this particular suite quality, our goal is to provide a consistent look and feel-- a navigation pattern based on SAP Fiori guidelines-- so that all of our applications-- whether they are coming from SuccessFactors, Fieldglass, Ariba, or S/4HANA-- will start to feel like the same applications for our end users. That's reducing the friction that they have in the switching between applications seamlessly. The next one is the work flow box. This is the central place where one would go to perform their tasks or approvals. Whereas in the current situation, each new-gen application has the edge on work flow box, or some set up a task manager. So we would be moving into the central one for all of our applications. The next one is the end-to-end process blueprints, also known as the reference architecture. Here, we are providing the guidelines on what the target state looks like when you want to become an intelligent enterprise. This especially can be useful to the solution architects and enterprise architects of any organization, where they could look at this target structure and look at the current architecture and then start mapping out their roadmap. For this particular piece, I have a demo in the next few slides. And let's move on to the next one. In the aligned data model is an area that, by far, has the biggest impact on our integration strategy. Because with this, we are making the master data synchronization and distribution across a lot of our applications much simpler, not only from just the integration perspective, but from provisioning and ease of use, et cetera, and how much out-of-the-box functionality we can deliver. And I will be using hire to retire as an example in explaining that. And the next one is the security and identity management. Usually, when we look at integration, we tend to think from a pure API or a point-to-point-based integration, but central user authentication like single sign on, central user provisioning, and even role management plays a key role in the experience of administrators and how these applications are coming together. So we are making a tremendous progress there. The next one is a coordinated lifecycle management. It's something to do with the harmonized provisioning release management. All that has to be structured, consistent, and harmonized. And the integration monitoring. And we are deploying central integration monitoring tools as part of our cloud application lifecycle management. That would help with that. And last but not least, these embedded analytics and cross-application analytics-- current reality analytics cloud-- is embedded within SAP S/4HANA Cloud and SAP SuccessFactors providing cost application analytics capabilities. This is how we plan to make intelligent enterprise a reality. For the next few minutes, we are going to look at the reference architecture in the SAP API hub. And then, also, I will show you where to find the roadmap for the intelligent enterprise. Let's go to SAP API business hub by going to this simple url-- api.sap.com. SAP API BUSINESS HUB have originally designed, so all the APIs from different SAP products could be accessed in one place. That's why you would see, on the left side, S/4HANA, SuccessFactors, Fieldglass, Concur, et cetera, products. And also, we have APIs from third parties like Open Connectors, through which you can connect to hundreds of other applications. And also, some partner content is also out there. And we have, traditionally, had been different content types' APIs and integration content. But we have introduced a new content type called business processes. Here, this is where we would find the different architecture for various end-to-end business processes. And let me click on view more. And here you could see lead to cash, hire to retire, travel to reimburse, and a few different variations around source to pay. And so let me select hire to retire. When you click on that, you would see an end-to-end value flow. Here we are looking at hire to retire process where it starts with requesting a position, which is really part of the workforce recruitment on-boarding. And then, how is the administration in the lifecycle of a particular employee and what do they do from time management, payroll, and payments. And et cetera. So each of-- and this, we call the value floor-- and each of these blue chevrons are called value process steps. When you click on each one of them, it would take you to a software collaboration diagram. And this diagram actually lays out how different components in an application or several applications interact with each other, what is the starting point and, also, what are the integration points. And all the way, linking you to the runtime artifacts. In this case here, it starts in apply central, approving a headcount by creating an open position. And here you have a third-party integration to an external job board which, when you click on it, it would-- in this case it opens up a SAP node. However, it could open an API or an integration flow depending upon how is that integration point. So the biggest value add is the ability to start from the business value and then drilling down to each individual collaboration diagram. And also, the ability to see the integration points and what is behind it, actually. And without even looking into a system. So, especially, this is useful to solution architects, enterprise architects of any organization. The other thing I wanted to mention is these end-to-end to end business processes. Roadmaps are available in SAP Roadmaps. Also, we introduced here the view of an intelligent enterprise scenario view, here. And if I select recruit to retire, you would be able to see that roadmap of those scenarios end-to-end. So again, please check out API business hub for the different architecture. And if you're interested to know what is coming up in the future quarters, you can look at our roadmap. Thank you. Let's take a hire to retire as an example and go through it. In the hire to retire-- and this is, again, a big process. It consists of travel reimbursement our external workforce, et cetera. But as far as the one data model is concerned, we brought in a worker object that encompasses the employees. In the future it will also include external workers from Fieldglass. also, a cost center object. So these two objects are harmonized across all these different SAP applications-- in this case, S/4HANA, Concur, Fieldglass, and SuccessFactors. So they will be centrally distributed out of the box when these applications are provisioned. So if I go to the next slide-- and again, we are calling it as a people model. And one of the biggest advantages with this, you don't have to integrate with each of the applications individually for master the data distribution. In this case, SAP cloud platform-based master data services will synchronize the cost center and workforce as well as the identity of the users to the respective applications. And here, in some cases, S/4HANA Cloud could be the provider for a cost center, for example. Whereas for employee worker information, S/4HANA cloud will be the consumer. But overall, the cloud platform mastered integration services will be the central hub where these updates of mass data published are consumed. In the bottom, you can see the identity and access management services and the cloud platform will help with the single sign on identity provisioning and role management. And one other important thing to remember is we also started to provide SAP Activate roadmaps fpr implementations for end-to-end business processes. Currently, we already published the hire to retire one, so that when you're implementing-- especially for green field implementations-- you are guided step by step from start to finish. And this does not aim to duplicate information. The Activate roadmaps are aimed to provide all the information you need in one central place. So this is how we are trying to make the integrations between SAP applications easier. As far as non-SAP applications and concerns, there are two factors that make it easier. One is APIs, and the other is out-of-the-box integration content. And here SAP Cloud Platform Integration Suite plays a major role, starting with the SAP API Business Hub. That is the central place where you will find APIs, out-of-the-box integration content, and even the reference architecture like I showed in my demo, related to the end-to-end business processes. There are many other capabilities of SAP Cloud Platform Integration Suite, such as API management that would help with the entire lifecycle of APIs and the integration advisor. This is where the machine learning based recommendations for mapping guidelines. And there are other services that I mentioned here, especially with Open Connectors. There are more than 150 different connections that lets you integrate with the third-party applications. So the recent highlights for SAP S/4HANA Cloud is that-- as you can see from the slides-- there are several hundreds of APIs and several thousands of CDS views are available. Again, CDS views are good for reading the data through a self-service fashion, and we have more than 150 business events available. These all will help you integrate with any third-party application. And also-- in some cases, on exception basis-- we have traditional BAPIs and IDOCS are also available. And to jump start your integrations, we have more than 1,400-plus out-of-the-box integrations. These are right iFlows that are published to API Business Hub. In some cases, these are SAP to SAP. But also, in many cases, they are SAP to third-party applications is also available here. And partner content also can be published here. The other most frequently-asked question is-- for SAP S/4HANA Cloud APIs, obviously, these can be found in the API Business Hub. The question often asked was where to find the SAP S/4HANA on-premise APIs. So SAP S/4HANA on-premise APIs traditionally can be easily found-- I mean, their BAPIs and IDOCS, remote function modules can be found in your S/4HANA on-premise system. But for the new generation APIs such as SOAP services and OData services, we have plans to publish in the API Business Hub. And this will be coming out sometime in Q4 this year. And the other important thing is the SAP S/4HANA Cloud has a much frequent lifecycle. Four quarters release in a year, but S/4HANA on-premise has an annual release cycle. So all the innovations that come to Cloud will eventually will make it to on-premise in the nearest release cycle. So that being said especially when you are planning your non-SAP integrations-- look at an API Business Hub, see any of the integration content helps you out. Even if it is closer, you may want to take a look at it, because that will help you accelerate or jump-starting your integration needs. And then, most importantly, check out the SAP Road Maps website so that you know when certain APIs, if you don't find them, may be coming in. Maybe they will come in the next quarter or in the near future. And here the data in the same Road Maps site is used for both the product roadmaps as well as end-to-end process roadmaps. And last but not least, if you need some things that may be asked, you can also log a request in the customer influence portal. So, hope the session was helpful in getting you the information on how to plan your SAP S/4HANA integration journey with SAP applications, just especially keeping the intelligent enterprise suite within mind and how we are looking things now and doing business processes not just from application to application. So cross-check the different architectures that are published in the SAP API Business Hub to see how you can map out your implementation journey and take advantage of the out-of-the-box accelerators such as the APIs integration content and SAP Activate for the implementation support. Thank you, and we'll see you soon. 