  [WIND BLOWING] This is awesome! Hey, it's me Destin. Welcome back to Smarter Every Day. This video is unlike anything I've ever had the opportunity to do. It's incredible. What you just saw was filmed in March of 2020. That was me on a sled on my way to a US nuclear submarine that's just popped through the ice in the Arctic. By the end of this video, you're going to see what it's like to board that submarine. I went out to observe a military exercise known as ICEX 2020. I boarded the submarine. And when I got back, everything was different. This happened right before COVID 19 started hitting the US in a significant way. And things continue to change. This was before the murder of George Floyd, which has proven to be a watershed moment in the history of our country. This video was a very clear demonstration to me that no matter what's happening here at home, right now there are hundreds of thousands of people in the US Navy from all different backgrounds providing security and stability across the entire world. These people have taken an oath to defend the Constitution, and they take that very, very seriously. So what's so cool about this, is in this video, and in some upcoming feature content, hopefully, I get to share with you how I learned what these people are doing. How they're protecting our interests and assets at the far reaches of the Arctic. And how they exactly do that. We as Americans, are in a tumultuous time of change. But it feels like we're actually on the cusp of living up to the ideals the country was founded on. All that being said, there are people that want to do harm to America, and this video is an attempt to give you a little insight into those that are defending America at the outer edges. The Navy is not just a huge organization. It's made up of people. We the people. These folks are highly skilled. They come from many different backgrounds. And like I said, they've taken a solemn oath to defend the US Constitution. I'm going to introduce you to the Navy one person at a time. In a way you've never seen before. A couple of years ago, I showed you RIMPAC, the rim of the Pacific exercise. That's where the Navy partners with its Allies in the region for a huge military exercise in the Pacific Ocean. ICEX is a three week biennial exercise that offers the US navy the opportunity to assess its operational readiness in the Arctic, and train with other services, partner nations, and allies to increase capability in the region and maintain regional stability while improving capabilities to operate in the Arctic. To help you understand the strategic importance of this operation that we're about to explore, the day after I left, our F-22 fighters intercepted Russian bombers, reconnaissance aircraft, and fighters as they approached and circled Camp Seadragon Which is the forward operating ice base that we're going to travel to. It's located off the coast of Alaska. This is a big deal. All right. So now that you have some context for the video, let's do it. And to be clear, the Navy has paid me nothing to do this. They simply gave me access, and said, tell the story as you see fit. It's a beast to even get there, though. So let's start by showing you what it takes to get to Camp Seadragon. I flew across the country to Seattle, which was a long flight. But I hadn't really thought about how far it was from there up to Alaska. I didn't realize that as far as I'd flown from Alabama, I was only about halfway there because of the distance between Seattle and Fairbanks. Once I got to Fairbanks, I had a layover for a day, and I decided to try to track down a couple of different local scientists before I continued the journey further north. And by the way, it is stinking cold in Alaska. I'm going to experience negative 30 for the first time. [LAUGHING] Oh! DESTIN: I had heard from experienced explorers that my camera gear might not work at these temperatures, but this is the moment that made me start to take that advice seriously. This is a problem. [LAUGHING] OK. We are testing the cold weather gear at the hotel. It looks like I'm testing for good reason. I'm just recording with the camera to see what the camera does. OK. First thing I did in Fairbanks is I came to Beaver Sports right here. And I got a little pressure transducer right here. I don't know if you can see that. I want to measure the pressure on the inside of the submarine. Now I'm walking to the University of Alaska because I want to meet the people that are going to be out on the ice taking scientific measurements. So we'll see what they're doing. I think I'm also wearing my parka wrong. I don't know what I'm doing. So I'm walking to the University of Alaska. And people are laughing at me as I cross the street. Apparently this is a bad plan. DESTIN: To be clear, I had no scheduled meetings or appointments. My goal was simply to adjust to the cold over this layover day. But I walked up to the university and kept going until I found a rocket outside the geophysical institute where they study all kinds of science that ICEX 2020 relies on. I had no idea that they own a rocket range. Did you know that? The only university owned rocket range in the world. That is a gigantic rocket. They fire sounding rockets up into the Aurora and see what they can learn. DESTIN: I connected with Fritz on Twitter. He's a science writer at UAF, and he explained all the Arctic science research they do. And introduced me to Dr. Donald Hampton, who told me all about the Aurora for a future video. Fritz then did some coordination so I could attend a special ICEX meeting that I didn't even know was happening. We're at the International Arctic Research Center at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. DESTIN: Got it. And your the director, is my understanding. I am the director of the International Arctic Research Center. DESTIN: And it's Hajo-- It's Hajo Eicken. DESTIN: Eicken. OK. Pleasure. Yeah. DESTIN: And so, my understanding is the meeting today is about how to keep these people safe when they're out on the ice. Yeah. I mean, we've got, of course, the Navy who is taking care of that. We have one of our researchers, Andy Mahoney, who's with the Geophysical Institute here doing it out on the ice. And we're a group of people who have a lot of experience and experimental forecasts looking at what the best science gives us to give them just that little bit of additional edge. DESTIN: Got it. So you're going to be looking at winds, temperatures, and like, the ice breaking and things like that? Yeah. I mean ultimately, it's all about the ice. The weather is potentially a concern from the perspective of flying conditions. You know, blowing snow, key concern. But what we really care about is, how does the ice respond to changes in the weather, changes in the ocean, and changes in the ice itself? DESTIN: So you have people here at the University, and you also have people out there? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So we're communicating on a daily basis. And kind of using satellites and various other types of data sources to give us the best picture of what the situation is. DESTIN: This meeting was fascinating. There was far more planning involved than I realized. Turns out, the specific spot ice camp was set up on is carefully selected and they constantly have tons of experts monitoring the situation with satellite imagery, GPS trackers, and weather simulations. All to keep their Naval and academic colleagues safe. And at one point in the meeting, it dawned on me that this meeting had direct implications for my own safety. Amazingly strong arctic oscillation. DESTIN: Mmhm. MAN (ON PHONE): Yeah the AO, the arctic oscillation, is now forecast to say strongly positive. You know, pretty much throughout the month of March. WOMAN (ON PHONE): They did upgrade today's risk fracture is from low to moderate. And then downgraded that very high risk to a moderate. DESTIN: So the next morning, it was time to head even further North. For the first time in my life, I was going North of the Arctic Circle to a fascinating place called Prudhoe Bay. On the flight up there, it was clear looking down at this vast landscape that I had never been anywhere like this before. When I landed, I was picked up by a Marine named Sergeant Santos. Manny handles the logistics and transport, and gave me my first look at Prudhoe Bay. This town is crazy. It's basically the end of the line and, it's mostly occupied by oilfield workers and tons of machinery. The atmosphere here was so cold that I saw a weird 360 degree halo around the sun. Which I can only assume has something to do with the ice crystals in the atmosphere. Anyways, we headed over to an airplane hangar which serves as the staging area for Camp Seadragon Over the course of the exercise, they have to get over six semi trucks worth of equipment out to camp, and this is where they store it and manage it and then pack in onto planes and ship it out there. It was here that I was given the opportunity to speak to the Admiral who is over the entire operation. OK. I'm sitting here. I should take my hat off. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sitting here with Admiral Logger And are you over ICEX? I'm trying to understand the structure here. I am. So I'm the Commander of Undersea Warfare and Development Center. And I have the pleasure of having the Arctic sub lab lined up underneath within my domain. My warfare expertise. Because Undersea Warfare and Development center, we control the undersea domain for the commander submarine forces within the big Navy structure of the warfare development centers. And within that, is the Arctic Submarine Lab. Because they own the Arctic. DESTIN: So what's the point of ICEX? Like, is this-- my understanding is this is a demonstration of the Arctic ability of US forces and our allies. Is that what we're doing? Yeah, absolutely. One of the things is twofold. From my perspective, it's one, Arctic readiness. Submarine force Arctic readiness is one of our priorities during ICEX. The other one is Arctic engagement. With our allies as well as, I'll be honest with you, academic institutions within the United States. Such as MIT Woods Hole, who does experiments during our ICEX time frame. And the reason for that is, we want to make sure that one, we have assured Arctic access for the submarine force as well as our combat credibility. So we, The Undersea Warfare and Development Center, we own the tactic techniques procedures for the United States submarine force throughout the entire globe. To include the Arctic. And so that's what we're evaluating with our submarines here. DESTIN: What are you trying to demonstrate with ICEX? You said, you know, capabilities. But what are the capabilities that you want people to know that America has? I would like America to know that we bring individuals from all over the United States to operate our submarines. And we're very capable with ensuring that we can defend our homeland. We can defend our strategic resources here in the Arctic. And we also want to be open and engage with the community, our allies. And again, academic community. To ensure that we have the best technologies to maintain our undersea advantage in the Arctic region. DESTIN: This was a great conversation. And some of the things that the Admiral I talked about will make a lot more sense once I make it out to the sub. So we're here and Bob is going to make sure I have the appropriate clothing for ice camp. So, it's outside. OK. DESTIN: I don't have a tactical beard like you do, though. What do we do about that? Well, you just have to wait and grow one. DESTIN: [LAUGHING] So we're going to be here while, buddy. Bob works for the Arctic Submarine Laboratory. And if you look at their logo, you can pretty much figure out what they do. Submarines under ice have unique navigation and communication challenges, and they work to solve those. I've got the first layer on, and my understanding is this is for wicking? This is for wicking, and also protecting you from the wind and the cold. DESTIN: OK. BOB: It's your base layer, so it's your first layer. And then you have your mid layer. And you can do multiple mid layers depending on what kind of environment you're in. Your next layer can be another mid layer, or your civilian clothes. Or, with the military, they'll use their specific branch of clothing for that layer. And then your outer layer is going to be your parka, your pants, boots, balaclava, hat, gloves and ear protectors. And that's pretty much about it for keeping you warm out in the Arctic. DESTIN: Now that I have the right gear, I want to introduce you to someone who's critical to ICEX. So I've heard about this person called the Ice Queen. It's Sofia. Why do they call you the Ice Queen? I got to know. Like, have you researched-- like, do all the stuff with ice? What's the deal? Yeah, I work at the US National Ice Center in DC. DESTIN: Uh huh. SOFIA: And I have done the big three deployments. Gone on the US Coast Guard cutter Healy, the Coast Guard cutter Polar Star to the Antarctic, and now I'm at ICEX. DESTIN: What are you doing? You're tracking the ice? Yeah. I'm tracking the ice floe that the camp is on and tracking any fractures that might have been in the ice around it. DESTIN: So when we're out at ice camp, you're going to see if it's going to break up with us. Yes. DESTIN: Since ice camp is floating on the ice in the middle of the ocean, Sofia sat me down and taught me about a ton of stuff I was going to see. She explained what's called a lead, which is a long crack in the ice. She politely corrected me when I misused the term iceberg. Can I correct to you that it's not an iceberg? DESTIN: Please do. Icebergs are from glacial ice. DESTIN: OK. SOFIA: Ice that froze on land is glacial ice, and that calving off is a berg. And this is all sea ice, and these are called ice floes or cakes. DESTIN: My favorite thing she told me to be on the lookout for was called finger rafting. That's when two large ice floes come together. And right where they meet, parts of the ice from one side will go over or under the other. And they end up interweaving almost like a zipper. It's crazy. Because if you look at a large scale out the airplane window, it looks like it was like, I don't know, like a woodworking finger joint. Hence the name finger rafting. So you're tracking the thickness of the ice? Whether it's going to fracture? All that good stuff. Mmhm. DESTIN: OK. Sweet. Well, do me a favor. Keep us alive. Yeah. DESTIN: It's time to head out to ice camp. And to be clear, ice camp is located on the ocean, out in the deep water. Which means the airplane is going to have to land on an ice floe. Before we boarded the plane, Bob put us and our stuff on the scales for weight and balance. So the Canadians are good at flying in the Arctic, huh? It's all we do. DESTIN: Yeah? That's awesome. Coming in, sir? Yup. So as you come in, the seats are folded down. Just makes them easier to climb over. DESTIN: OK. Fold them up as you're-- DESTIN: Sounds good. Twin-- so this is a twin otter? Yeah. Twin otter. So most you guys are scientists? Yeah. There are some students. DESTIN: Yeah? Professors and staff.  All over the place. DESTIN: All over the place? We took off from Prudhoe Bay, and headed North out into the Beaufort Sea. The Royal Canadian Air Force are the experts at Arctic flying, which is why they handle most of the transport. The ice was beautiful. The way it breaks up reminds me of my fracture mechanics class. I saw leads and flows and even finger rafting. I started to be able to identify first year ice versus multi-year ice. And while staring out the window, I chatted with the Canadians on comms and asked them how they land a heavy airplane on first year ice. It was an interesting discussion. And right after that, we saw it. Camp Seadragon. Just before landing, we circled over one of the two submarines that had popped up out of the ice near camp, and it was amazing. This is a huge machine that contains people. And it went under the ice hundreds of miles. I don't even know how far. And just popped up right out of the ice. All my questions rushed to my mind. But they would have to wait, because first we have to land an airplane on ice and make our way to camp.  So what exactly are you guys studying out here? What we have working on specifically is acoustic navigation communication under the ice. Because of course we don't have GPS. But what we have developed is an approach combining acoustic communication with navigation that allows us to get close to GPS navigation accuracy under the ice. And that's what we're going to be demonstrating. DESTIN: Nice! So you have beacons out somewhere? Yeah. DESTIN: And then you're going to put-- They're out there. A couple of my guys are out there putting them out now. So we'll have four of those beacons and their communication buoys. And the vehicle will then communicate to these buoys. Where it thinks it is. DESTIN: Right. And then on the top side, we'll then make a track solution and send that back down to the vehicle and tell it, no you're not there. You are there. DESTIN: Ah. And then it's updating that. DESTIN: Oh, so it's like a correction. It's like when you integrate. That's exactly it. It's the plus C. Plus C. Yeah. And also, we tell it where the camp is. Where the camp is moving. What the ice is moving. Because it's using an upward looking device for measuring speed relative to the ice. It gets confused when the ice is moving. So we also tell it how much ice is moving. DESTIN: Oh, that's awesome. So it's a really complex navigation system. DESTIN: Oh, it's just calculus though, right? Absolutely. DESTIN: Yeah. That's it. That's what PHD students are for. Exactly. DESTIN: [LAUGHING] I know all about that. I'm just here to talk to you. DESTIN: Yeah, that's right! You're here to get your name on the paper. Am I right? Am I right? Yeah. They're the ones doing everything. DESTIN: You left me hanging. Oh. There you go. Thank you. Recaught it. How are you guys doing? Ready to go? Oh yeah. Absolutely. All right. So I can take two up here. And then everybody else can get comfortable on the sled. We'll go sledding. DESTIN: Oh, that's what I'm talking about. WOMAN: You want to be on the back? DESTIN: Sure. WOMAN: Front? Or-- This will be fun. DESTIN: This reminds me of when like, it used to snow in Alabama. We would pull a tire behind a four wheeler. [LAUGHING] This is awesome! DESTIN: The beauty and simplicity of the Arctic is striking. And it was meaningful for me to see this many people coming together from all over the world to do science and learn from and help each other. How's it going? Going great. DESTIN: I'm Destin. I'm Michael Cox. How are you doing? DESTIN: Where are you from, Michael? Originally? Texas. DESTIN: This is not Texas. This is not Texas. This is by far from Texas. DESTIN: What are you doing here, man? I am a part of ASL. DESTIN: Yeah? I just started-- DESTIN: The Arctic Submarine Lab? Yes sir. DESTIN: Yeah. What do you do? Uh, we set up camp. We dig holes and we make sure everybody gets around where they need to do. All of the teams. All the projects. We assist with whatever they need. DESTIN: So logistics? Logistics. DESTIN: When you say dig holes, what does that mean? They got a project 10 out there. Dug a three foot by five foot hole for them to do their project that they're working on. DESTIN: So you're keeping camp alive, basically. That's what-- yes. Between us and UIC, we keep everything running. Keeping it heated, and keeping electricity to it. DESTIN: That's awesome. Thanks, Mike! Thank you! DESTIN: Pleasure to meet you! Take care! DESTIN: We're going to be heading out to the sub pretty soon, so my goal is to find Andy Hajo from IARC said he's the guy that's studying the ice. What are we doing here? We are drilling a hole for our RO unit. Make water. DESTIN: You're making fresh water? Making fresh water out of sea water. DESTIN: Nice. So is this salty? Uh-- You want to taste it? It's normal sea water so-- DESTIN: Yeah, I do, actually. Is it all right? Here's you a slush if you want. Let's do it. It's the sea water. That will actually be concentrated, so that's frozen. Whoa. That's very briney. Yeah. [LAUGHING] That is the saltiest water I've ever had. DESTIN: So you're Andy? Yes. DESTIN: So, Hajo told me to say hey to you. Oh, right. You talked to Hajo already? DESTIN: Yeah. Cool. DESTIN: Yeah. So what are you up to? Aside from drilling holes in the ice, I guess I'm here as the camp ice expert. Helped pick the floe that we're on. Try and hedge our bets against the ice floe breaking up underneath us. DESTIN: Yeah? Try to pick the right floe. And then I've also done some research here. Working with colleagues from Cold Regions Research Engineering Lab as well. To try and study what makes ice break. How strong ice is. What makes it break. And we predict if and where ice is going to break. DESTIN: So like, fracture mechanics and stuff like that? Yeah, it's fracture mechanics. It's understanding properties of a material at large scale. Like beyond the lab scale. A big enough scale where there's random cracks and flaws and heterogeneities. Unevenness in the ice that act to weaken the ice kind of in aggregate. The ice floe is our lab. DESTIN: Yeah? And specifically, what we're trying to do is take this out of the lab. We're trying to make measurements that are too big to do in a lab. So I've got a radar sitting on top of the pressure ridge out there. And that's measuring real small changes in how the ice is moving. DESTIN: Uh huh. We can measure shortening or stretching of the ice by a few centimeters over several kilometers. DESTIN: Yeah. Strain. Strain. Exactly, yeah. DESTIN: Yes. Strain on the order of 10 to minus five, ten to minus 6. DESTIN: Can you show me one or two of these things? Uh, yeah. So this is on the left is a radar. DESTIN: Yeah. Interferometric terrestrial radar. DESTIN: Go ahead, I'll follow you. And on the right is an LSO, laser strain observer. DESTIN: Yeah. They're both essentially measuring the same thing. We're trying to measure strain in the ice. Potentially down to 10 to the minus 6, which is what we would expect for elastic strain if the ice is just being squashed without actually cracking. But if we start to get cracks, that's when we'd start to see higher rates of strain. You know, centimeters. Potentially meters of motion. And that's what we're kind of sort of measuring. DESTIN: Yeah, that's when you know there's been some stress relief happening. That's right. And so we've also got a couple of stress gauges out there. And what we see is, you see a peak in the stress, and then the stress drops just as the cracks open up and the stress state relaxes again. Oh, so yeah, so this is rotating once every five minutes. So we kind of got up here a good time. It's just getting to the end of a sweep now, and then it's going to go back to find home. So the radar is doing this every five minutes. DESTIN: So it's interferometry? It's interferometry, yeah. And it's actually got it's got one transmit and two receive antennae so it can do instantaneous interferometry and create a 3D map of the ice around us. Although, I am primarily using it to look at interferometry looking at changes over time. So you know, it's basically going to tell me how far away an object is, and then I can measure any change down to a small fraction of a wavelength. This is a KU band radar with about a 17 millimeter wave length, so we can measure changes in the-- DESTIN: Oh, yeah. So you've got-- so the wavelength means you can only measure up to 17 millimeters and change, but you have to use interferometry to get it shorter than that. That's right. Exactly. DESTIN: Yeah. That's cool. So we're measuring the phase of the radar signal. DESTIN: Can we go see your total station over there? Yeah. So it looks off into the distance where there's some prismatic retro reflectors. They give a very, very precise-- DESTIN: Corner reflectors. Yeah, exactly, basically. And so it's going around, and roughly it takes roughly five minutes to make a scan. And so every five minutes we get a recalculation of the position of these reflectors. There's about 20 reflectors circling camp. And we can see changes in the position of those. And what we've seen so far, is that we're standing on an old pressure ridge. This is multi-year ice that survived several summers. Off behind is camp itself. And the ice behind us is also multi-year ice. Thicker, older, colder ice. Off on this side where you landed on the runway, that's first year ice. Thinner, warmer, not so strong. DESTIN: But the reason we did that is because it was smoother. That's right. DESTIN: So it's my understanding that the position of ice camp was selected based on old year ice right next to first year ice so you could get the roughness to study-- or you know, basically the depth to study. But you can also get the first year stuff to land on. That's right. So it's very difficult to make a runway on this ice behind. As you can see, it's really lumpy in that it gets that terrain that topography from successive summers of melting. The first year ice hasn't seen a summer yet. So unless it's been busted up into a pressure ridge, it tends to be very smooth and flat and ideal for a runway. So we want first year ice for landing the plane, multi-year ice for the safety. It's less likely to fracture. I don't know if you saw when you came in, there's actually quite a few leads and openings around us. We went up in the helicopter yesterday to kind of scout those out. And reassuringly, those cracks are primarily in the first year ice. So they are circling us. I'm going to put my hat on because my ears just getting a little bit cold. DESTIN: Yeah, my ears are too. So if I understand correctly, correct me if I'm wrong, Andy. So you're using the total station to measure strain between here and many points. So this is your datum. Yeah. You're doing a two dimensional strain rate analysis. Yeah, that's right. DESTIN: OK. And have you analyzed the data yet? We're actually analyzing the data in real time in the command center. DESTIN: Yeah? So you have optical corner reflectors for the Leica total station here. That's right. DESTIN: You have metal mechanical corner reflectors for the interfermetric radar? The sea ice is a natural reflector. DESTIN: Really? Yes. This is the command center for the Camp Seadragon And what we've got set up here is a laptop showing real time data from the LSO-- the laser strain observing system up on the ridge top out there that we were just standing by. These arrows here show the motion of some of those reflectors. So you can see this ice out here, with these long arrows, this ice is moving in a largely southerly or easterly direction. Whereas, out here, the arrows are very small and not moving. So the old ice where we are is-- DESTIN: And where is camp? ANDY: Camp is right here. The laser strain system is right on top of this pressure ridge. DESTIN: And where is the airstrip? ANDY: The airstrip is in here. DESTIN: OK. And the reason it's on the young ice is because it's smoother. Is that correct? Because it's smoother. But what these data are suggesting, is the young ice is moving relative to the old ice. And if we see some ice is moving and some ice is not moving, then in between those two bits of ice there's a crack. And we're trying to work out where those cracks are. How they develop, how quickly they develop, and whether we can predict where they're going to be. So I think our current location is the circle at the end of that track. DESTIN: Can we walk closer? Yeah. And maybe Bailey here can correct me, but this is our current location. Lieutenant Bailey Miller. DESTIN: Bailey Miller. Yeah. DESTIN: So, what's going on here? Is this a GPS track of where we're at? Correct. Yes. So, Andy's involved in the designing of this buoy. But pretty much once we found the floe that we liked, we left a buoy there that Andy actually placed. And so then we're able to track the floe that we're on. And it uploads via iridium satellite. And then we can get a live feed of where it is. It updates every hour. So we have data of where our floe goes every hour based off of currents and wind conditions where the floe is drifting. DESTIN: So, where are we at on here? BAILEY MILLER: We are at this bullseye point. DESTIN: Yeah? BAILEY MILLER: Right now. We were going really slowly in various directions. Mostly based off of the winds. And then yesterday we had a couple of days of moderate winds and we tracked very quickly relative to the past month up to the Northwest. And over the past couple hours, now we've slowed down and we're heading South right now. If you zoom in, you can see the last two data points are Southerly. Lieutenant Miller, you're trying to track where we are like, at a macro level. And then Andy is doing the micro level. Like, what's happening locally. Is that what's kind of going on? We're both interested in the overall health of the floe and how the Beaufort Gyre is influencing our particular floe since we're living on it. DESTIN: Yeah, yeah. I'm kind of interested in it too right now. That's awesome. Over here we have the camp safety watch. And the camp safety watch is manned by one or two people depending on how busy it is. They're keeping track of field parties that are going out on the ice. Since it's obviously very cold out there, we want to make sure that they have good comms. And that we know what they're up to, and that they're accomplishing their goals. DESTIN: Oh, they're tracking somebody right now. Can I see them tracking? Yes. DESTIN: Is that OK? BAILEY MILLER: Yeah. So we've got a live feed camera that has IR and visual. And we're able to keep track of 360 around the camp. Also, the camp safety watch is keeping track of the weather. Providing it to the entire camp, and also aircraft that are coming in and out. DESTIN: So when we called Seadragon you were the guys that answered. Is that right? BAILEY MILLER: Yes. It is, indeed. DESTIN: Yeah. BAILEY MILLER: You're the voice of the Seadragon DESTIN: The voice of the Seadragon. So what's up with this horn? That's the alarm system for camp. DESTIN: For what? So, if I see a polar bear, I just sound the alarm. DESTIN: Have you done it yet? Not yet. No. This is the closest I got was this morning. I saw something warm on the horizon, on this IR camera here. DESTIN: Yeah? Yeah. Right there. You can still see it. DESTIN: Yeah? And then in the morning, about 6:00 AM, nobody was awake yet. I thought, polar bear time. So I grabbed the horn. Somebody came in the tent, got a second opinion. And they said, that's a submarine sail. DESTIN: [LAUGHING] So I stood down. DESTIN: That was your moment to shine, dude. Right DESTIN: Did you have the can in your hand? I had it in my hand and then I said, if he didn't walk in I was buzzing it. And I was going to go-- we have a loudspeaker here too. Camp safety, camp safety, comms check. Over, over. DESTIN: You were going to yell polar bear? Polar bear, polar bear. DESTIN: The submarines were a couple of miles from camp, and we got word that they were about ready to leave. So the lieutenant took us to the helicopter for the short trip over. So do you love it? Yeah. Getting out of the office is always good. This is definitely as far out of the office as I can get. DESTIN: I'm Destin. I'm Bob. DESTIN: Nice to meet you, Bob. MICHELLE: Hi. Michelle. My co-captain is Evan over here. Hi, guys. DESTIN: What's up, Evan? Hey. DESTIN: After a thorough safety briefing, we spun up the helicopter and headed out to the sub for one of the most interesting moments of my entire life. [HELICOPTER BLADES WHIRRING]  Well, that's a pretty big moment.  Hi and welcome. DESTIN: How are you doing, sir? We'll take your bags. We're going to go up the sail, and then go down. So we'll take these for you. DESTIN: Yes sir. Thank you. No problem. We'll take that. We're going to hold the bottom of the ladder. When you get to the top of the sail, you're going to have to swing your leg up and over to get in. DESTIN: Yeah. While you're going down the ladder-- when you get down to the bottom-- you're to have to shift around because the ladder rung is going to change. DESTIN: Right. But other than that, it will get you in, and we'll get you set up and warm. Will you hold this? DESTIN: My name is Destin. Arnell. I'm the chief of the boat. DESTIN: You're the chief of the boat? Nice to meet you, Arnell. No problem. DESTIN: All right. Following you guys. All right! [HELICOPTER BLADES WHIRRING] [INAUDIBLE] ARNELL: Normally the guys come in through here, but we're not high enough with the ice right now. So there's a little water over our wet shipping hatch. We couldn't open the normal hatch. DESTIN: Great. Sounds good. [INAUDIBLE] DESTIN: You want me to go first? Go first. DESTIN: Cool. ARNELL: Here. Make sure you take a good step. A good grip. [INAUDIBLE] DESTIN: What's up, man? Not much, sir. DESTIN: How's it going? Good. DESTIN: Nice to meet you. Same. DESTIN: Nice to meet you. What's your name? Caleb. DESTIN: Nice to meet you, Caleb. [INAUDIBLE] CALEB: You can step down right there. And then the rungs are on the left side. DESTIN: On the left side? CALEB: Do you see them? DESTIN: Yeah. Got it. CALEB: When you get down to the second step they rotate. DESTIN: Yeah. Just be careful about that. DESTIN: OK. Sounds good. Can I take my gloves off or leave them on? You can leave them on. DESTIN: All right. So there we go. Even getting to the boat is an incredible adventure. When I went down in the boat, I saw things that I never thought I would see. In fact, it was hard to point the camera in any direction without capturing something classified. In fact, that's where the video is right now. It's being OPSEC reviewed. Operational security. So we're going to wait on that. In an upcoming episode of Smarter Every Day I'm going to show you amazing things. But for now, I want to say thank you to the sponsor for this video, which is not the Navy. In fact, I had to pay for my own food on the boat. It's Audible. Audible is a place where you can go and listen to incredible audio books about adventures and get yourself outside of your own personal perspective. If you want to check out Audible, do that by going to Audible dot com slash smarter, or texting the word smarter to 500 500. Whether you're mowing, you're driving, whatever it is you're doing, you're going to be able to consume audio books in that moment and you're going to reclaim your time. The only point of reference I had for being this cold was Endurance by Alfred Lansing. This is an incredible story about Ernest Shackleton's adventure to the South Pole with his crew. They get stranded in a boat. Like, I had the option of leaving in a helicopter, a sub, or an airplane. They didn't. By the way, my favorite person in the entire story is Frank Worsley. His navigation skills as a captain basically what saved the entire crew. This is an incredible story of survival that I desperately want you to listen to. It's true, too. It's not fiction. When you go to audible dot com slash smarter, you get a free audio book. And I recommend Endurance. However, you can get whatever audio book you want. You can also get unlimited access to Audible originals. That's 30 days of Audible by going to audible dot com slash smarter, or texting the word smarter to 500 500. Anyway, that's it. I really want you to subscribe and see these upcoming videos about this submarine stuff. Imagine Destin in a nuclear submarine with a camera and able to ask questions. It's incredible. There's science everywhere you look. I loved it. So please consider subscribing if you feel like this earned it. If you trust me at this point to give you good content, I would even appreciate it if you you would consider that little bell. If you click on the bell by the YouTube subscribe button, it'll actually give you a notification when I upload. Big thanks to the navy for allowing me access to all this stuff. Thanks to everybody at ice camp for keeping me alive. And thank you to you for watching. I hope you enjoyed this video. I'm Destin. You getting smarter every day. Have a good one. Bye. 