 Tinker Edge boards are single-platform computers produced by Asus. They are Raspberry Pi's competitor. Today we will discuss Tinker Edge R and Tinker Edge T boards. Single board computers have shown for years that the technology is moving forward all the time. The trend started by Raspberry Pi is continued by other companies, even by the huge corporations like Asus. Tinker Edge boards are not to be treated as boards with a few sockets and dubious parameters. They're powerful devices that can intimidate fully-fledged computers available in shops. But what really distinguishes Asus' boards? Size, for sure. Small sizes doesn't mean but for limited performance, because there is nothing against making the boards work as full-fledged servers or warehouse control systems. In addition to the high computing power of the boards, they are characterized by full support for machine learning. The manufacturer shall make fully fledged tools available for implementing these algorithms. An interesting solution is to provide tools for remote board management in enterprises, so they can work better than their competitive counterparts. Another advantage is Tinker OS. This is Debian-based software. A separate system has been developed for each board, making it work perfectly and not requiring configuration from the user. The main elements of Tinker Edge T are: USB type C socket, a package of two USB 3.2, and a Gigabit Ethernet connector, HDMI socket, and a DC socket. 40-pin GPIO, display connector, cooling made with a radiator and a fan, processor based on ARM Cortex A53 1.50 GHz, Two camera slots for micro USB cards and 1 GB of RAM. Additionally, the board is equipped with in Bluetooth and WiFi communication and 8 gigabytes of built-in eMMC memory. The Thinker Edge R is more powerful and includes an HDMI port, 3 USB 3.2 and USB type C, mini jack socket, Gigabit Ethernet, DC socket, two camera connectors, display connector, 40-pin GPIO, Cooling containing radiator and fan, ARM A72 plus A53 1.8 GHz, Rockchip MPU machine learning system, mPCIe connector, nanoSIM card slot, micro SD card slot and 6 GB RAM. Additionally, the board is equipped with in Bluetooth and WiFi communication and 16 GB of built-in eMMC memory. The boards and accessories presented in our video can be purchased in Botland shop, which is the official distributor of ASUS Tinker series in Poland. 