 G'day, it's Matt here from Sydney Guided Tours. I'm standing here in the noisy  Circular Quay Railway Station but we're about to get a ferry, right  across the harbour to the other side and we're off to Manly. So stick around because it's  going to be a lot of fun! This is Circular Quay and you can get  here by train, ferry, bus and light rail. It's right in the center of town. It's only about, say, ten  minutes walk from Town Hall. So, this is the starting point to  get on a ferry to go to Manly. I can't think of a better way to experience Sydney because what you get to do is see the  Sydney Harbour Bridge on one side, and then we're hopping on the  ferry and we're going right   around the corner past the Opera House over there. To get around in Sydney, it's quite easy. All you need to do is pick up one of these Opal   cards and that will allow you to hop on  trains, buses, ferries and light rail. So today, hopefully, I'm  going to make three videos... The first one is getting  the ferry across to Manly. It really is a scenic ride. The other video, is walking along Manly  beaches, and the third video and final video, hopefully, if everything goes to plan, is getting  the ferry back from Manly to Circular Quay. The 17-minute trip from Circular  Quay to Manly runs every hour, daily. You could catch a bus across the  Sydney Harbour Bridge to get there, but why would you when the  views are as good as this? The ferry travels past the more  affluent eastern suburbs of Sydney, like Rose Bay and Vaucluse. Today is a calm day, but some days the  swell here is huge at Sydney Heads,   which is the entrance to Sydney Harbour. The ferry arrives at Manly Wharf  where you'll find charming bars,   cafes and restaurants, if  that's what you're after. Well that was a nice short and sharp video. I hope you enjoyed it. If you did, please remember to like and subscribe. Right now though I'm going to go for a  walk right through the corso at Manly and then we'll go to the other side  and go for a walk along the beaches. So, watch this video up here and  we'll go for a walk through Manly. 