 We're discussing CIO strategy and  priorities with two top experts.  I do a lot of work helping organizations with  their transformation programs. We do a lot of   work around Agile and DevOps product management  and data analytics and AI. We have a StarCIO   Agile Planning Program that helps  organizations develop their Agile culture,   and I do a ton of writing on my blog,  blogs.starcio.com, InfoWorld, and other sources.  Our second expert today is Tim Crawford. Thanks, Michael, for having me. It's great   to be here again on CXOTalk, and  especially with both you and Isaac,   talking about this really important subject. I'm Tim Crawford. I'm CIO and Strategic Advisor   with AVOA. The nature of the work I do is really  more of a CIO at large, so a lot of assessments,   executive coaching, helping folks  through their transformation journey.  Like Isaac, I do a fair amount of writing and  speaking and just working with really smart folks.   I'm hoping to learn as much as I'm hoping to  share what I've learned through the process.  Now a quick thank you to Productiv, a SaaS  management platform that unlocks the power   hidden in your SaaS applications to bring  you higher ROI, better team collaboration,   and lower license costs. Tim, we're talking about   this idea of a transformational CIO. We've  spoken about it in the past. Give us a quick   rundown. What do we mean by that? You're the first  person to have used that term, that I'm aware of.  The transformational CIO has changed and it hasn't  changed. Fundamentally, the difference between the   traditional CIO and the transformational CIO  is that the traditional CIO is more focused on   back-office, technology focus, and they've  centered their organization in that way.  The transformational CIO, on the other hand, is  far more business-focused. What that means is   that they have stronger relationships with the  rest of the C-suite, including the CEO. The CEO   being probably one of the closest relationships  that they have. If not, their direct report.  It's also understanding how technology fits into  the mix to achieve those business objectives.   That's a really important distinction here is  that integration between business and technology.   It's not just technology and being reactive but,  rather, being proactive as part of that C-suite.  I would say, having that digital mindset is  really about growth and understanding where   the industry is going, where markets, and where  customers are going. The transformational CIO is   talking to customers, is learning about prospects.  They're really outgoing and learning about what's   happening in other industries. They bring a lot  of agile capabilities into their organization,   not just in IT but bringing it to other parts  of the organization so they're collaborative.  In terms of technology, they're really looking  at the scope of the business through a digital   lens. What that means is technology is changing  so rapidly. We're getting new capabilities from   application development to edge to analytics  and AI. Getting a sense of what needs to change   when is a really important part  of the transformational CIO.  Why are we even having this conversation?  If we were talking about any other position,   any other leadership position in business,  it would be fairly obvious that the person   needs to understand in-depth, in detail, the  business. Why are we giving the CIO kind of   a pass to even think about not doing that? The first thing is, you have to look at the   anthropology of IT. When you do that,  when you look at the history of IT,   it really kind of speaks to an organization  that was taking a really complicated problem,   business problem, and solving it. As you've gone through the decades since the   start of IT, through the evolution of IT, we never  really came back and reconnected with the business   in the ways that we really needed to. That demand  has been growing over time. It's not that it went   away. It's just that we could get away with not  having a really strong connection between the two.  Now, fast-forward to today, and that connection  absolutely must be there. It's been growing   even before the pandemic hit us. I know  we'll talk a little bit about that but,   even before the pandemic, the demand to  connect technology and business together   in a meaningful way has been increasing.  The CIO absolutely has to lead that charge.  That's been one of the problems is that we've  been able to wiggle our way through this   and make it work for some period of time.  The pandemic has really brought a spotlight   to the need to make that connection a  solid line rather than a few steps removed.  I think part of this that also is different  is that the CEO and the board and, really,   the CIO's colleagues want the CIO's input.  I don't know if that was always the case   five to seven years ago, but they want the  CIO to really explain the art of the possible   in language that they can understand and they want  them to do it in a way that is executable. Right?  Yeah. We don't want to hear about some far future,   cognitive AI if it's not relevant and if it's  not executable by the group. That CIO is there   to explain it, to sell it at times, to get buy-in,  to think through what parts of the organization   need to transform first and sooner, where there  are disruptive factors that might impact business,   where there are some opportunities. It really has become a two-way street. It's   not just the CIO really stepping up. It's really  the CEO and the board and their colleagues, the   SLTs to come back and say, "Look. We need the  CIO to own parts of this transformation program."  You're absolutely right, Isaac. I will  take it a step further and say that   the rest of the organization outside of IT has  been increasing in terms of their needs and   reliance on technology. To some degree, they've  tried to do it themselves, but they've quickly   realized the complexity of doing that. It really  takes them afield and out of their wheelhouse.  It's really been adding pressure to that of  the role of the CIO. We talk about the CIO but,   realistically, for those listening, it could be  any role that is the senior-most person in IT.   It doesn't necessarily have to be  someone that holds that CIO title.  The importance that I would amplify  there that Isaac just said is,   it's become a two-way street. The executive team  knows that they can't just keep IT in a box and   it's far removed. It has to be part of your core  program to survive today and moving forward.  What are the practical implications  of this for the CIO role and for CIOs   that are thinking forward into the next year? Continual evolution of the digital operating model   within IT is really important. How do you build  collaborative practices that bring ops and dev   together, that bring data technologists and  data scientists with the dev teams together   that really educate the business on how to be an  active stakeholder or an active product manager   or product owner? There's an entire collaboration  that needs to happen for the CIO to be successful.  Also, thinking about the skills and the  leadership qualities of their staff,   of the organization itself. The CIO doesn't  do this work by themselves. Most of my   interactions tend to be with secondary reports  and sometimes even tertiary reports to a CIO   that their roles are expanding. Right? Mm-hmm.  They're expected to have business acumen. They're  expected to negotiate with stakeholders around   scope or to take on a transformational program. How does the CIO work with their staff on   communications? You're going to start with a  whole new set of programs, a whole new set of   initiatives. How do you educate the organization  around what the strategy is, what the roadmap is?  You listen to what I'm saying. I'm talking about  communications. I'm talking about marketing,   selling, collaborative. This is not sitting and  coding. It's not looking at service desk tickets.   This is really being a part of the business and  saying how to make technology work together.  You have to understand the business operations at  its core. You have to understand how the company   makes money and how it spends money. I know  that I've said that before I know that sounds   super simplistic, but it's actually not. It's really getting into the bowels of how   your company engages with its customers,  which then leads to how you drive customer   engagement, how you're engaging with your  customers, how that's changing. Remember,   all of this is evolving and changing over time. A business is a living organism. It's not a   structure that you build once, you're done, and  you just keep multiplying it as part of scale.   Rather, this is an organization that  has to evolve and change over time.  The CIO needs to think about how they can play a  role in that whether it's organization, culture,   process, technology. All of these pieces  have to come into play, whether you're   talking about the customer engagement end  of it or the business operations. Both of   those are incredibly critical, especially today. Arsalan Khan takes some issue with a couple of   things being said here. He's on Twitter and he  points out; he says, "Okay, so we want the CIO   to be transformational but still the majority of  companies don't even include CIOs in their annual   reports as a key executive." In a way, are you  guys talking about a theory of an ideal world?  This is where I've talked about this in  the concept of the three-legged race.   There are three components that have to move  forward as part of this evolution. We're focused   on the CIO may be as part of this conversation  but the rest of the IT organization also needs   to come along in this transformation journey. There's a third piece to this in this three-legged   race and that's the rest of the company  and how it perceives the role of the CIO   and the role of the IT organization. This  fundamentally comes back to the relationships   that the IT leader has with the rest of the  C-suite and the value that they're executing   on in terms of providing that direct business  value to achieve those business objectives.  If there's a disconnect between those, you're  absolutely right. As a CIO, you're not going to   get invited to that table. You're not going  to be seen as another C-suite executive.  However, if you are delivering on those objectives  and you are focused at the business level   and you do have those strong relationships, not  only will you be working at the C-suite level   like the rest of your peers and the title that  you hold, but you'll also be engaging more   regularly with your board of directors. That's  another piece to this that has to be understood.  You don't just get a seat at the board  table either. This is where relationships   are where it starts. If you do not have a  good relationship with your CEO, for example,   you will not get invited to the board  meeting. That is your doorway to the board.  Again, kind of back to what Isaac was saying  earlier. This is less about technology and more   about everything else in the soft skills.  We have to think about where our focus is.  Isaac, what are the practical  implications, again, for a CIO strategy?  There's a bit of a continuum right now in terms of  how different businesses and different industries   view the strategic needs around technology  and how they view the CIO and how they view   IT. It doesn't come overnight. It comes through  a crisis. It comes through opportunities.  The one thing the CIO can do to help themselves  is when you develop business acumen and you can   ask questions from a business perspective,  when you can challenge people's thinking,   when you can bring solutions and then express  what the problem is and what impact it's going   to have on the organization. When you can do that  continuously without getting under people's skin   in a way that gets people to think  differently and do it in a way that   gets the CEO thinking differently, then  the CEO is going to slowly start saying,   "I want to understand what this person is saying." Now, this is not about shipping jobs to the   ones that really want CIOs that are  transformational. We're all in our   roles to make our roles successful, and so part  of that is using that acumen to ask questions,   challenge the status quo, bring solutions in,  and I think that's a big role for CIOs today.  The one thing that I'll add to what Isaac said,  everything he said plus in business terms.   When you have that conversation, you must  have that conversation in business terms.  Do not bring up technology terms.  Do not bring up the jargon. Bring up   business terms. How are you going to engage at a  business level? That is the start. The language,   the relationships, the way you approach it,  what you prioritize, and why you prioritize it,   all of those factors come into play and that  helps you derive your strategy which, in turn,   helps you decide how your organization should  be structured, how your processes should evolve.  Let's face it. If you fast-forward to today, take  all of this, and put it into today's language,   the reality is what you were doing a year ago is  up for grabs. It's totally different today. That's   something that I think we have to take a really  hard look at is, how has it evolved? Again, it   comes back to starting with the business, starting  with understanding what your business is, how your   customers are evolving, and then going from there. We have a very, very fundamental question from   Wayne Anderson on Twitter. Wayne, I'm paraphrasing  here but, basically, what he's saying is,   does being a transformational CIO have some sort  of major business impact? To put it another way,   why should we care about this? If you're going to the board and   you're going to the CEO and you're coming to  them with opportunities to reduce risk, to make   things more efficient, or bring technology in to  automate processes, quite frankly, they're table   stakes. They're things that are just expected of  CIOs. They're what CIOs have traditionally done.  When you get that chance to voice things,  you need to be talking about growth.   You need to be talking about customer experience  around where market opportunities exist.   You really need to talk about where data and  analytics can become a strategic advantage.  It's not just to   bring ideas to the table. It's where you are  willing to put your name against something   that's in an area that the CEO cares about. The  CEO expects you to do some of these other things.  The key here is, if you boil it down,  companies that compete with one another   will ultimately be decided on how they  use data and how they use technology.   That sounds pretty dramatic, but I think that we  actually will start to see that as we go forward.  Two competing companies, the way that they  define success versus failure is who is able   to use data and technology in a more meaningful  way to do three things. Those three things,   again, I have these little tools that  I use. I call it the Ternion Concept.  It's three focus areas. To Isaac's point, these  are the focus areas of the executive team,   of the CEO, which is business growth or revenue  growth. The second is customer engagement.   The third is operational efficiency. If you are focused on those three,   this is actually one of the differentiators  between a traditional CIO and transformational   CIO, a traditional CIO being focused on  operational efficiency, transformational   CIO also being focused on customer engagement  and revenue growth. It's a huge differentiator.   It changes the game and it also helps you see  the path that is going to differentiate your   company from your competition. That is really  important, especially in this day and age.  Yeah, and if I were to add a fourth wheel  in here, it's about just pure business and   technology agility. The things that are different  about the CIO role is the rules of the game   tend to change, sometimes slowly,  sometimes there are market forces.  You look at what's happening in different  industries. It hit media over a period of   about a decade from 1990 to about 2000 in  terms of the impact of the Web. But now,   it's happening in financial services. You think about the impact of technology   that happened in waves of three to five  years. That changes the role of the CIO.   It changes the rules that we can play with. Then you have some really harsh impacts like a   pandemic where everybody overnight is working from  home and everybody is looking at you and saying,   "How are you getting our work done more  efficiently?" That's a big part of the CIO   role is just having the entire organization  in a form of agility that when something is   abrupt like a pandemic or something is happening  gradually that you have the tools, the processes,   the leadership, the collaboration, the  principles in place that people can react to it   and sometimes be proactive about the things that  are coming down for that particular company.  We have a very interesting question from Twitter,  a very important one. Shahid Masood said, "CIOs   are overseeing multiple projects in high-pressure  environments. How do they deliver projects on time   when there are competing priorities, especially  in this pandemic situation, and how does a CIO   balance keeping their time between keeping  the lights on and strategy and innovation?"  I've written about this a few times. I don't  know of a single organization that expects   technology and expects data and analytics and does  a terrific job of prioritization. There's always   higher demand from IT and from data scientists  than what these companies can provide.  This really starts with the dialog  the CIO is having with their board,   with their organization. Then also, when they  start talking about their direct reports,   thinking through what are really that most  important strategic initiatives that are   going to drive transformation and having a real  conversation around that. Then getting tactical,   using Agile processes to negotiate around scope  but also being very good at executing on time.  I always tell people if you hit your timeline and  if you hit your quality but I have to negotiate   on scope with you, then that's a two-way  conversation that we should be able to have.   We want to be able to get things to market  faster. We want to be able to get feedback   because so much of what we're doing today is both  impacting employees, it's impacting customers.  Instead of trying to get the scope 100% right,  let's get it out to market a little bit faster.   Make sure it's good enough quality. Then  being able to get feedback for us to get   a better set of priorities going forward. It's a tough role and serving as a CIO is both   a privilege and an honor but, at the same time,  it's an incredibly tough place to be. You have to   get into that mode of understanding  what the table stakes are. You have   to execute on those, first and foremost. If you don't do that right, the rest won't matter.   Nobody will be focusing on anything above that.  You have to get those fundamental pieces right.   End of story. Full stop. Once you get past that, once you get   those fundamental pieces, to Isaac's point, this  is a team sport. This is not an individual sport.  You have an organization for a reason. You need  to bring that organization along. You need to   help them be as successful as you want to be  successful because if they're not, you won't be.  It's important to get those table  stakes underfoot. Once you do that,   then start looking at the opportunities  to engage from a business perspective.  The first thing I would do is just ask  yourself, where can I provide the greatest   value the quickest? Speed comes into play, value,  business value. Forget about technology value.   Just saying that you can do something faster  or you can become more flexible in doing it,   that's not going to cut it anymore. You have to have some tangible outcome   in the work you do and there has to be a very  clear line of sight in doing it. Start there.   Show that you can execute on that, that your team  can execute on that, and it will grow from there.  From experience, you'll end up with more  resources than you know what to do with.   That's a great place to be but you have to do it  in a meaningful way, and you have to be mindful   of what the rest of the organization is doing. If you're not in tune with the rest of the   organization, you could be thinking, "Okay,  I'm aligned in a certain way but now I'm way   off in the distance and the company went over this  way." Especially in this day and age where we're   changing on a dime multiple times every week, it's  incredibly important to stay in tune with that.  Wayne Anderson says, "How does a  transformational CIO adjust to a defensive market   like we're in today? What changes in the role,  in the thinking, when the market is struggling?"  It comes back to your perspective, your lens that  you're looking through. I would look at it as,   sure, there are aspects that are defensive,  but I think this is greatest opportunity for   CIOs and businesses to employ technology. Being able to bring data into the mix,   we haven't been able to do that in a meaningful  way in the past. We should have but, now more   than ever, let's do that. The second thing is,   you can actually start taking risks  today that you couldn't take a year ago.   Now, with our business down, now  is the time to take these big bets.  If something goes sideways, number one, people  are giving out hall passes. They're going,   "You know what? We're all dealing with the  pandemic. It's okay. Just get things together,   learn from it, and move on." If that same kind of going sideways   event were to happen a year ago or a year from  now or two years from now when things have   started to recover, you're not going to get that  luxury. You're not going to have that ability.   Now is the time to kind of double down  on accelerating those innovations and   finding ways to put yourself in an offensive  position as opposed to a defensive position.  I think there are opportunities across the  industries to do this, whether it's education,   oil and gas, healthcare, financial services,  high-tech. All of them have opportunities to   do this and the transformational CIO is the  lynchpin to be able to move that forward.  I think you are looking for places to be  offensive, particularly in down markets.   Think about yourself and your needs have changed  dramatically from a year ago. Even in a B2B world,   their needs have changed dramatically. It's almost like a big record scratch. Everything   that was our source of belief in terms of  what was important changed back in March,   and that creates opportunity. It's not just  a defensive matter. It's an offensive matter.  Also, the rules of operating have changed. If we  talked a year ago about this time, we would have   never guessed this shift to remote working. The  organizations that are figuring that out faster,   they're figuring out how to use  collaboration tools, how to be   innovative during this period of time, they're  going to get some edges over everybody else.  Yep. The perfect time to really stretch what you're   doing. You have to do it in an empathetic way.  People are going through different situations.  There was a question earlier about portfolio  and demands. You really have to be smart   about how many different things you're  assigning to teams and people and be very   selective about the projects you go after. But  you can really get an advantage when people can   work remotely and have fewer distractions  that they were having in their offices.  Ben Haines, who we all know is a CIO and he's been  on this show several times, is saying, "When you   talk about a transformational CIO, it seems like a  simplistic term because there is no implication of   being forward-thinking and business-driven.  Transformation simply means changed. Oh,   I've moved from on-prem to the cloud. Let me pat  myself on the back. What about that dimension?"  It's not. It's not. We only have so much time  to talk about what it is and what it isn't,   but the reality is the transformational CIO is  an incredibly complicated being and it's a being,   a culture, and a person that's evolving over time. It's not where you go from A to B and you're done.   It's A to B to C to C prime to D to D  prime to E to F to Z to R to S to M.  [Laughter] You're having   to jump around, just like our business changes. I go back to what I was saying earlier about the   organization needs to be organic. It needs to  evolve. So does your thinking as an IT leader.  The transformational CIO understands that but  understands that, like we talk about the new   normal, there won't be any one new normal. There  will be a collection of them and they will evolve   over time and evolve again and again and again. It's really a changing of the mindset. Yes,   we boil it down to try and communicate it. But  the reality is, all of the traits, if you were to   map out each of the different traits, it's an  incredibly long list. I know Ben knows that   but, for those that are listening, it  is a complicated conversation to have.  Ben is one of the top CIOs I know out there and  he's right. Look. If you look at anything that   you're trying to do as a CIO and it's taking  something you do today and targeting to make it   work better, that's probably not transformational. No.  That's just the transition from one efficiency to  another efficiency, one set of problems probably   to a new set of problems. That transformational  CIO, when Tim and I are talking about growth and   customers and data, it's because you're changing  the rules by which the organization is behaving   and what you're going after. Yep.  It's hard to explain it in words, but  if you're just shifting to e-commerce   and you're a brick and mortar, okay, so you  have a new sales channel and you have a new   way to market it. You're engaging with customers  in a completely different way and you're offering   a different set of services. You're selling  services instead of products. You're doing   subscription models against those products. Now you have a whole customer service and   retention angle against that. You have to  sell that very differently. You have to   be able to measure the engagement  level of your customers through a   subscription model. Those are game-changers. You might be a brick and mortar company and now   part of your model includes offering  technology or selling some of your data   back to them in anonymous ways. Those  are game-changers. That's what we're   talking about when we're thinking transformation. When you're thinking a few years down the road,   part of that role of the CIO is any  label in technology is going to have   tens, hundreds, or thousands of choices. Do  you build something on a public cloud or you   do it in the private cloud? Do you do it with  a partner? Do you do it with cultivating the   skillset internally to use a low-code platform? Picking those choices in a way that becomes   sustainable platforms that you can  continue to do agile and oriented   improvements, these are the things that the CIO  has to do some of the prediction through and say,   "This is where the market is going.  That's where I'm putting my bet here."  One quick thing on that and then, Michael, I'll  turn it back to you. The one quick thing on that   is it's not just that the CIO is doing that.  It's that they have developed an organization   around them that can also do that. That is  just as important as them being able to do it.  Lisbeth Shaw has a great question. She says, "How  does a transformational CIO define the right kind   of innovative strategy given the constraints  that most companies are dealing with?" I think   that this is important because it gets right to  the heart of how do you manage the day-to-day   realities of the grind of IT and still be  transformational and still invest in innovation.  Constraints are really important. I think that's  what drives innovation and I think that's what   drives competitiveness within the group. If you  have an open checkbook, you're buying lots of   things and probably not getting value out of it. Part of innovation, when you're under constraints   is, how do you extend the walls of IT outside  of IT? When we talk about self-service data   capabilities or citizen development  programs, a lot of that is saying   it's really about the impact that technology  makes and how the IT group enables that   but doesn't necessarily mean all the solutions and  the innovation have to be built and managed in IT.  I think constraint is good. I had the opportunity  to work for an organization. Unlike most IT orgs   where you are constrained by budget, this  particular organization I was not constrained   by budget. I had more money than I knew what to  do with. I will say that that is actually a worse   problem to have than the constraint because it  causes you and your organization to stop thinking   and making decisions in smart and clever ways. I think, especially right now where companies   are trying to preserve cash, they're  trying to cut spend as much as possible.   We have to think about more clever ways  to manage It but it's also forcing us to   get more innovative where we place our bets. We have to think more clearly on what is that   direct connection. How can we make every dollar  count or every euro count or whatever currency   that you work in? How can you make every  piece of work that you do really count   the most? That causes you to focus and  make decisions in a very different way.  Shelly Lucas tosses up two separate issues.  Let's take them in turn. Number one,   the role of cybersecurity in the transformational  CIO's offensive agenda in a defensive market.  Cybersecurity is so complicated and  it's on the minds of every board member   now more than ever. Risk is something that has  to be managed. You have to take the offensive   on it. You absolutely do, especially as we push  people to work from home, running on networks   that we don't manage, running on equipment  that don't have standard configurations.  There is a reckoning day coming for us and we all  know it. Those of us that are in the trenches,   we know it. We have to get aggressive  with it and we have to be smart about   where we spend the dollars to do it. If you were to just bring in a whole   bunch of tools and cobble them together, that's  not going to solve it. If anything, it'll cause   you to head for bankruptcy. I think you do have to  take an offensive measure and there are a lot of   strategies, a lot of thinking around how  to take those strategies and apply them.  Isaac, Shelly Lucas also raises the issue of  customer experience, which is a topic that you   and Tim spoke about a few minutes ago, the role of  customer experience in the transformational CIO.  It starts with developing who your customer  is, your segments, and your personas and   partnering with parts of the business that  have a vested interest in this. Usually,   it's a product group or a marketing group. I think a key area for the CIO is around   measurement and being able to illustrate where  customers are experiencing product. I think   projects like Customer 360 projects are really  important around that. Ultimately, it's around   providing a mechanism for capturing  feedback, doing an experiment,   finding out what the impact is with the customer,  and then readjusting your strategy around it.  Shahid Masood asks, "Organizational transformation  or digital transformation involves culture change.   Besides managing the technology change, how can  we manage this cultural change effectively to help   staff embrace new technologies and processes?" Legacy is one piece you have to think about. First   and foremost, start with business transformation.  Never start with digital transformation.  If you're starting with digital  transformation, that's a fool's errand.   You have to think about how your business  is evolving and use that as your North Star.  From there, you start to understand, as I said  earlier, how you can align the decisions you make   and the strategies you put in place for IT and  your organization can align with that business   transformation. Now you can start to determine  how processes, how organizations, how the culture   needs to change, how the people need to change. Some of those folks are along for the ride. Some   of those folks will come with you. They  will evolve, but you have to be realistic   and understand that there are some folks in  your organization that they will not come for   the ride. That's a tough conversation to have but  it's a reality that we all have faced as leaders.  You have to do that parsing exercise to  find the right alignment and the right   organization to carry you into the  future. But it starts with having a vision   that is clear, aligns with your business, aligns  with where the customer is headed, and that   people really understand it in their terms. Arsalan Khan says, "So, the nature of a   CIO's work has shifted from traditional  CIO to transformational/consultative.   Is the next phase to be CEO since most  companies are trying to call themselves   tech companies now?" Isaac, thoughts on that? It takes a very special set of skills to go from   a leadership position in IT to being a CIO. The  same thing is true going from a CIO to a CEO.   If you have that growth mindset, if  you understand your industry very well,   you understand what customers are looking for,  and you develop that board relationship, that   is where that potential can come from. It comes  from really understanding growth and customers.  What advice do you have for CIOs today,  moving into early next year, dealing with   all the stuff that we're dealing with, how  to maintain and be a transformational CIO   in the face of all of these obstacles,  and what are the opportunities?  It's about focus right now and  focusing on fewer things but   executing them well. We're not trying to spin  up innovation labs for the sake of innovation.   We're not trying to take a 2,000-person IT  group and spread them across 200 initiatives.  Pick the ones that are truly going  to drive growth, customer experience,   and data and analytics and execute them  well. I think that's one big part of it.  Then also, to follow up to an earlier question,  to really get more people in the organization   changing behavior and changing their practices,  focus on learning. The job people are doing today   is going to evolve dramatically over the next  few years. If you're an IT stuck on a technology   or if you're in business and stuck on a certain  business process, learning and pushing learning   is a great way for people to expand and look  at different ways from a different lens.  Let's get really pragmatic about this.  Number one, understand your customer.   Number two, understand your business. How is  your business evolving to be able to meet that   customer today and how that customer is evolving.  Then number three is, what pieces of data and   technology are going to help that process and that  business transformation take place? Focus there.  The rest of it, quite frankly, can slide by  the wayside at this stage because you're not   going to be able to do it all. But if you focus on  those pieces and, as Isaac said, you do it well,   that will then give you the air  cover to be able to do other things.  For right now, in this pandemic, in this economic  downturn, we have to focus on what matters most.   What matters most is the customer, it's  our stakeholders, it's our business,   and being able to do that in a meaningful way at a  reduced spend level. That's where innovation comes   into play, strategic innovation comes into  play, using data, artificial intelligence,   machine learning, and automation in smart ways,  not just applying it like peanut butter, but   be very smart about how you use technology. Another comment from Twitter, and this is from   Paige Francis. She points out: "Keep the focus  more on business outcomes and less on the need   for ego-stroking. The foundation must be strong.  Own it. A low bar is the best bar to start with."  I'll call it out. I had the opportunity to  present at a Women in Technology conference   a year or so ago. One of  the things I said on stage   was, "IT is an old boys' club. It is what it is." One of the things that that tends to spawn off is   this egocentric culture. We have to get beyond  that. We have to bring diversity into the mix.   Diversity is a strength, not a weakness.  We have to change the way we think about   our teams, our people, and our staff and the  value that we deliver to the organization.  I really welcome. I've interacted with Paige  a number of times. I really love her thinking,   and so I would welcome more of that. The entire industry needs a little   bit of humility and humbleness. That's part  of learning and part of helping your staff   learn about how the business is operating. That means that you can ask questions and   that means that when you put people on  teams and you create agile structures,   there's collaboration, and there's diversity  built into that thinking. We know the statistics   that diverse teams perform better. Shahid Masood says, "What is required for him   to upgrade himself from an IT director  role to a transformational CIO role?"  The gap between CIO and one level  below CIO is the biggest and hardest   gap to cross in the IT organization –  full stop. It's always been that way.  The best thing you can do is go back to  the fundamentals that Isaac and I have both   talked about. Educate yourself on the business.  Educate yourself on what your organization does,   what it should do, what it shouldn't do. Understand what are sacred cows in your   organization, too. Understand things that you're  doing that you've always been doing it and you're   continuing to do it but maybe you shouldn't do it. I think, again, that North Star is your customer   and your business. When you start evolving and  changing the way A) you talk, so the language   you use, B) how you execute and what you execute  on, people will start to notice pretty quickly.  There is a wanted thirst across the organization  for someone who can bring technology and data to   the forefront, so don't think that people  don't want it. People are desperate for it.   They just don't know how to ask for it. If you  can start to demonstrate that you can deliver   on those principles that we've talked  about in the last 45 minutes or so,   you will start to get noticed and  magical things will start to happen.  Another question from Ben Haynes, "What  skills should a CIO be recruiting for in his   or her leadership team now?" Isaac? Leaders need to be highly versatile in the   different areas that you're assigning them. I'm  going to try to put the two questions together.  You need people on your team who are  willing to get out of their comfort zones.   I'm going to hire a head of app dev. I'm going  to hire a chief data officer. I'm going to hire   maybe a head of product. Then there are going  to be a lot of things that fall into the gap.  The first is, if you want to be positioning  yourself as somebody who has CIO potential,   in addition to the things that we've talked  about, get out of your comfort zone. If you've   been a head of enterprise architect for 15  years, you're not CIO material because you   haven't gotten out of your comfort zone. It's building up three or four different   skilled areas, working in different areas of the  business. That's going to show that diversity of   thought, skill, and practices that a CIO needs.  That's essentially what the CIO needs as well.  If you hire a head of security, for example  – a very important role – if that head of   security isn't interfacing with the business  and figuring out how to make sure that you can   impact the business but also maintain  risk, it's not going to work very well.  CIOs have to look at those skills that  are versatile but also look at skills that   complement what they do well. If I'm not  good at managing cloud or I'm not good at   managing quality, look for people who  are going to complement your skillsets.  Look for someone like an Isaac or a Tim. Maybe  Isaac has a background in applications and Tim has   a background in infrastructure. Okay, but can I  take Tim and put him in charge of applications and   how well would he do? The same thing for Isaac.  You need to have people that can pick up these   other areas, do them well, and lead those teams. Again, I think it's more soft skills than hard   skills, but look at the networks that they bring  around them. Who follows them? It's not just CIOs   here. Even lieutenants and people further in,  who is looking to them for advice and leadership?   Those are the folks that I would really look for. We have one more question coming in from Brian   Lilly. He says, "How to lead IT, the  leadership qualities, the best practices   in a globally distributed organization  that is probably not coming back   to the office any time soon." The leadership in  a distributed environment, how do you do it? What   advice do you have? What are your thoughts? I think it's about setting principles so that   people in your organization can make decisions  and work collaboratively together. You think about   the world a year ago. You could get on planes 12  times a year and visit different offices, get in   front of customers, or go to a tradeshow and learn  something. All that is much more difficult today.  You could have a meeting for eight hours to get to  a consensus around something. It might have been   inefficient, but you got to an answer around  something. That's very difficult to do today.  I look at how are you empowering your  teams to understand what's important,   what are their guardrails, how they should make  decisions, how they're collaborating, and where   they're making some wrong turns that they can  course correct. As a leader, you have to set those   principles and what's important and give your  teams the room to actually execute after that.  The other piece to that, and I'll go to a  mutual friend that Brian and I both have.   He's a fellow CIO as well. He couldn't get on  a plane and go to Asia to meet with his staff,   but he could get on Zoom or video conferencing and  start to understand what they're going through.  Not everything is about business. It's about the  people too. Let's face it. Isaac and I meet in New   York City and we might talk about business,  but we're also going to talk about, "Hey,   how are the kids? How are things going for you?" You have to find ways to learn more about the   people and what makes them tick as well. That  connection, that personal connection, is something   that is much harder to do at a distance but it's  something that we as leaders have to do. We have   to find ways to create that connective tissue  with our leadership teams and with our staff.  They have to be part of that equation and  they have to understand the reasons why.   When you start to head down that path, it  really creates a completely different dynamic   and a different relationship you have with  those folks. Again, it comes back to soft skills   more so than hard skills. All right. I think our show for   today is done. We'll have to do it again.  We've been speaking with Isaac Sacolick   and Tim Crawford. Gentlemen, thank you so much  for taking your time and doing this today with us.  Great being on the show with you, Tim.  It's always an honor being with you.  It's always a pleasure. I  look forward to the next time.  Everybody, thank you so much for watching.  Thank you particularly to the people who   joined in and asked questions. Check out  CXOTalk.com. We have great shows coming up.   Be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel  and subscribe to our newsletter. Do it.  Thanks so much, everybody. I hope you have a great  day, and we'll see you again next time. Bye-bye. 