 Hi there, my name is Dan Scott, and I am an Adobe certified instructor for Illustrator here at Envato Tuts+. And together, you and me are gonna learn the basics of Adobe Illustrator. Now this course is for beginners, there is no need to have any previous knowledge in Adobe Illustrator, or design or drawing or illustration. Okay, we're gonna start right at the beginning and work our way through, step by step. During this course we're gonna work through practical real-world projects together. Learning the tips and techniques necessary to make each of those projects happen. We'll start with the techniques that you'll need to create just about anything in Illustrator, including custom shapes, the wonderful shape builder and the simple to us curvature tool. We'll explore lines and brushes. You'll master how to use and manipulate type. We'll use our new type skills to make our print flyer. We'll work through how to create your own custom logos and icons. I'll show you the sneaky secrets Illustrator has to discover and use beautiful colors and gradients. You’ll learn how to push, pull, cut and manipulate artwork like this. We’ll take our drawings and make repeatable patterns like this. And I’ll easily show you how to redraw these images in this vector style. Last but not least, we’ll make sure that you can save and export your print and web documents like a professional. Also throughout the course I set lots of class exercises so that you can practice all the tips and tricks and techniques you are learning as you move through the course. So if you've never opened up Illustrator, or you have and you struggled a little bit with it. Follow me and I will show you how to make beautiful artwork in Adobe Illustrator. All right, to get started what you need to do is you need to download the exercise file. So there will be a link on this page for source files. So look for the source files, in there is everything that we work on together during the course. Plus it has all of the things that I set for you as class examples. So at the end of a lot of the videos, I kind of said some not homework, fun things to practice the skills you're learning. And when you finish those practice lessons, not homework, I'd love to see them. So there's a couple of ways of sharing them. One is in the forum here on Envato Tuts+. So if you go to the forum and search for Adobe Illustrator for beginners, okay, and you'll be able to post your exercises in there. The other thing you can do is tag us on social media. So post your examples on Twitter. We have two things, we are @TutsPlusDesign and also personally I am @danlovesadobe, so tag both of us. On Instagram it's bringyourownlaptop. Okay, so yeah, share what you've done, share with the world. Make sure you tag us so we can comment and look at it as well. The other thing to do is, or the next thing we need to do, is we need to go through and just get our computers all looking the same, so yours looks like mine. And we're gonna reset the workspace, and make sure we got the right units, and increments, and that sort of stuff to get started. So let's jump into the computer now and sort that out. First up, let's open up a file so that we can get our workspace similar, so your version of Illustrator looks the same as mine. Because the trouble sometimes with this first start screen here is it can be different for everybody. So let's go to File and let's go to Open. Now what you wanna to do is you wanna find the Exercise Files you've downloaded. Here they are here, Exercise Files Illustrator. And in here I want you to find the file called Getting Started, and then click the Open button. All right, so the first thing we need to do is we need to reset our workspace, just so that we're all looking the same. And we can do it along the top here. There's this little app bar, okay, and yours might say something different in here. But drop this down, and what you want to do is you want to click on Essentials. You want to see if there's a tick next to it, so click on it. And the second thing you want to do is come down to that exact same menu and go to Reset Essentials. And that will just put it back to kind of a default setting. Now if yours still looks different, it might be that you're using an earlier version of Illustrator. And what that's going to mean for you is that you can continue along with this course, say, 90% of the course is going to be still fine for you. What you are going to have a little bit of trouble with is finding out where some of these menus are, because they have moved around just a tiny bit. What I mean by that, if I grab my Type tool and I click and I start typing. You can see over here it automatically says, here's my Character panel, and there's my Font and Font Sizes. This Properties panel did not exist in earlier versions of Illustrator. Super handy, I love it. But in earlier versions what you're gonna have to do is when looking at this Character panel or things in this appearance. What you're gonna have to do is go up to Window, and open them separately. This is how older versions worked. If I go down to Type, there's Character, okay? So it's the same panel, can you see? He matches him, but he's just in a separate little window. So that's going to be a fun game if you're using, say, CS6 or CS5. But don't worry, you can continue on with most of this course. So just make sure you have it set to Essentials and that you've reset them. Next thing, let's look at the units and increments. Let's change the units you're using. What you need to do is have nothing selected. The best way to have nothing selected is grab your black arrow, the Selection tool here. And just click off in this grey area here, just so that nothing is selected. Watch when I select on something, this Properties panel changes. But when I click on the background here, into kinda no-man's-land, it gives me kind of general overall settings for the document. In this case, it's currently set to centimeters, okay? I'm gonna change mine, and work in inches in this course. But let's say we're working, say, with some web or a UI design work in Illustrator. You can click on pixels, it doesn't really matter, but this is the place to change it. It's in a slightly different place than say, a lot of the other Adobe products like Photoshop or InDesign where it's kind of done in the Preferences. So that's just something to note here, we're gonna pick inches. One last thing we'd do before we move onto start making things is just some basic navigation. We'll cover a lot more during the course, but zooming in and out and moving around is quite important. So there is a long way, you can use this, see this little magnifying glass here? The zoom tool, click on that. And you click once, click twice, okay, and it just keeps zooming in. To zoom out, you can hold down the Option key on a Mac, or the Alt key on a PC. So look down at your keyboard. If you're using a Mac, it's the Option key. If you're a PC, it's the Alt key, and you can see the little icon changes from a plus to a minus. And then I just click again with my left mouse button, okay, and it just zooms out. So that's the long way. What you'll find is I'm not gonna cover too many shortcuts really early on. But the one everyone uses to zoom in and out is, on a Mac, hold down your Cmd key and tap plus. If you're on a PC, hold down the Ctrl key and tap plus. Okay, so plus is just up in your numbers, kinda along the top of your keyboard, there's a plus and a minus. So minus zooms out, plus zooms in. One last little bit of navigation is to move around, say I want to see kinda down a bit further. See these little sliders on the side here, okay, it'll look a little different on a PC. But there'll be a little kind of a slider bar that you can go up and down. Same with down at the bottom here, you can go left and right. Okay, that is the long painful way. That is fine when you're new, you can do that way. But let's do one last little shortcut, is if you hold down the space bar. Can you see at the moment I'm on my selection tool? Okay but if I hold space bar down, look at the icon that changes. It becomes a little hand. Okay so space bar down, becomes a little hand, and that just means click, hold, and drag. Okay, so space bar down, clicking the mouse, and just dragging it around. All right, that's it for the boring navigation stuff in Illustrator. I'll remind you of those shortcuts throughout the course, so don't worry. But now, boring stuff over, let's get into the super exciting world of creating things in Illustrator using shapes and lines. All right, I'll see you in the next video. Hi there. In this video, we are going to set up our documents that we can start redrawing this cute little sheriff penguin using all our shapes. We're gonna create a new document, show you how to bring in and use layers to lock this pencil drawing in the background so that we can redraw over the top of it. All right, let's get started. All right, first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna create a new document to draw our penguin on. Let's go to File, let's go to New. Now in here we've got a bunch of pre-sets, okay. Along the top here you've got like if you wanted to design a mobile phone, kind of a website. We're gonna start with print, okay. And in here we're gonna pick letter, and along here we're gonna change our units to inches. We're gonna make it landscape, and what you'll find is yours is probably twirled up down at the bottom here. See where it says advanced options, click on that word and this little extra option opens up, okay? And we'll change our color mode to RGB. And we're not gonna cover the full differences between RGB and CMYK. But, just so you know, if you're new, RGB gives you a bigger color field, okay? More richer colors. CMYK is a little bit more washed out. But if you're gonna eventually become a commercial illustrator or commercial designer using illustrator. You probably need to research a little bit more the differences between the two. But the short version is just use IGB, even if you go into commercial print, printers have some amazing software to convert it to IGB, which they need and often it can give you a better result. So RGB, perfect for pretty much all circumstances these days. Let's click create, all right. Next thing we gotta do is save our document. So next up let's go to File and let's Save our document. And what I want to do is, now if you're on a Mac, like I am, okay. You might have to click this little arrow to see a few more of the options here, okay. If you're on a PC, things are very similar but a little different, okay? Now, depending on your ability you might just save onto this top and just leave it at that. What I'm gonna do is be very organize and click on New Folder. And I'm gonna put it into files. Okay, I'm gonna put a folder coolest one, my penguin. I'm not sure if that's how you spell penguin, looks good enough for me. If you're on a PC it's slightly different, I think there's just an icon along the top here, that says New Folder, hover above them. Create a new folder called class files, name our document penguin, and let's click Save. Okay, these Illustrator options, just leave them all by default and click OK. So, to get started, what we've got is, I've drawn, hand drawn a penguin, and we're gonna redraw over the top of it, and that's a really common way that I work, and a lot of illustrators work. Is that it's easier to draw in my notebook, take a photo of it or rescan. And actually just draw on top of it in illustrator. So how everyone works? You can go straight into illustrator but it's gonna give us at least template to draw over the top of, just to make it a bit easier for us now. So to make that happen, let's go to File and let's go to Place. Place is the word, it's interchangeable with import. Illustrator likes to call it Place, though, so File, Place, we'll bring in our image. Let's find the exercise files that you've downloaded, and in there should be one called penguin.jpg. Now, before you click Place, what we're gonna do is click on this word Template. I'll show you what it does. Let's make sure a template is clicked, let's cut and place, and what ends up happening is, with my black arrow, if I click off in the background. Can you see? I can't move this image. So what it does is, it brings it in, it puts it on its own layer. It locks that layer and dims it down a little bit, so it's easier to draw over the top of. And mines put in the middle of this document. Yours is probably off to the side here a little bit. So, let's look at unlocking that layer and moving it around. So, up here in your layers panel. Layer one is where we're gonna do our drawing. This layer, here, called Template, you can kinda see Template Penguin. What it's done is, it's created a layer, and has locked it, okay? So it means I can't move it around, which is super handy. But let's say I wanna move it over a little bit, let's click on the locking icon. Click on this now, and now, okay. Just using my black arrow. Just clicking and dragging the center anywhere, okay? Now it's unlocked, okay? So I hope you can see the benefits of using the template. I can lock it again now, we're back to my layer one, okay? Make sure it is highlighted, and I can do my drawing on that layer. And this helpful little liar is just underneath dimmed down a little bit. The capacity is down a little bit and it's locked making it easier to draw. All right, that's it for setting up our document, just getting ready for drawing over the top of. What we'll do in the next video is that we'll start drawing with our shapes, okay. Lines and rectangles to make our cute little penguin. That, for some unknown reason, is a sheriff. Mainly because I needed to show you how to draw a star. But let's do that in the next video. Hi there, in this video we're going to redraw this pencil penguin, okay? Over the top, using shapes and lines, using illustrator, we'll turn them off and yeah. [LAUGH] Short little squat penguin. Look at how happy he is. All right, let's get started. All right to get started, what we're gonna do is we're gonna grab. Our rectangle tool over here in my toolbar. If you can't see the rectangle tool, it might be that if you click and hold this kind of where this option might be, it might be set to something like the ellipse tool. And to change that back to the rectangle tool, all you do is click, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, until these options appear, and then just click on the rectangle tool. Also to get started, just make sure you're on your layers panel, and make sure you're on layer one. In your Properties panel, I wanna make sure we're gonna change our fill and stroke. The fill is the center color of our rectangle and the stroke is the line around the outside. So what you do is you click on this first little icon. Doesn't matter what color it is currently. Pick a random color. Okay, cause we're gonna change it in a second but I just wanted you to get used to it. Then you can click back on this icon to close it back up. And then the stroke, click on this. And just make sure it's set to black. Then you don't actually have to click back on this, you can just click anywhere and it closes back down. And I wanna make sure that the stroke is set to one point okay? It's just a nice thin line that goes around the outside. So let's draw a random rectangle, don't worry if it doesn't kinda line up, we're gonna use it for the body of our penguin. So you can see the fill is the center color, and the stroke is the line around the outside. What you might see is kinda like faint blue line or red line, depending on your computer. But it means, it just means it's got selected. So if we go back black arrow, this is your kind of like safety tool. Always go back to your black arrow if you're not too sure what to do. You got all this selection. Just go back to the black arrow. It's the one you're gonna use the most. And what you can do is click in the background here. So I just clicked once and it deselected our rectangle. You can see the stroker on the outside a lot clearer. So it just goes blue when we have it selected. So what I like to do is, I like to keep the black line but not the fill. To do it, you have to have it selected, so black arrow, click it in the middle, anywhere. And over here, click on fill, and to have none, see this little red line here? If you hover above it, it tells you, but that means I want nothing in there, please. And I'm just gonna click in the background to close that little fill panel. Great, so I've got a line around the outside but no fill. And what you'll notice is it's a little bit different to select. So I click in the background now. What happens is if I try to click the center, you can see it just doesn't work like it did when it was filled with green, cause there is not center now. So if I want to select this rectangle now, I have to click the edge ones. So black arrow, click the edge and it should be selected. Now what I'd like to do is using these white squares, okay? I just want you to resize it, okay, so that it kinda matches the edges of our little penguin here. All right, not very exciting. Let's get into the slightly more exciting when we start looking at the corners. So black arrow, make sure the edge of it's selected, you see these little targets in the corners, these are called corner options. And all they do is click, hold, and drag it with your mouse, just drag it towards the center of the rectangle. [NOISE] So it's making all the corners not surrounded. Okay, so that's kind of what I want. It's got the top and not the bottom. Okay, so what we're gonna do is we're gonna use this thing called Edit, we're gonna use Undo. It just goes back one step, okay, undo it, undo what you did. And it keeps going back. You can Keep hitting Undo right back to the beginning of the document. You can also Redo it. Now, I'm gonna use the shortcuts throughout this course, because it's a really common thing to do, go to Undo. And on my Mac it's Cmd+Z, on a PC it should be Ctrl+Z, and we can just got to the long way, it's fine. What I'd like to do is I would like to have just one of the corners selected. So look at this little icon here, take note of the color. I'll click it once, you can see it's kinda changed, it's inverted. So it's kinda selected when the other ones are not. What I mean by that is if you click and drag that one now, okay? So you click it once and then click and drag it. You can see just to fix that one. I can do the same here, click it once, it goes to the alternate color. Now, click and drag and them, okay. I can kinda just work with these individual corners. Now, my radius is a little bit different on both sides, so what I'd like to do is go to Edit Undo, Edit Undo again. So it's back to being a square, and I'm gonna show you how to click both of them. So you click the first one, like we did before, just click it once with a black arrow. But if you hold your Shift key down on your keyboard, Shift key is gonna play a pretty big part in Illustrator, okay? So hold down Shift, click on the second one, and it means that I can select more than one at a time. So these at the bottom aren't selected, these guys at the top. If I click one of them, click hold, drag it. They both come off the right, now I know they match. And a last minute change to my design, I'm gonna click this bottom one once, and just tuck it up. I want it to have like a little penguin belly. [LAUGH] He was a bit stumpy before, he's still stumpy. But anyway, you don't have to follow exactly. So we learned what fill in stroke is. Stroke is around the outside, fill is in the middle, and we looked at these corner options. Let's start building some other parts. Let's draw the circle for his kind of eye there. So I click, hold, keeping holding down your mouse, and then release on this Ellipse tool. So with the Ellipse tool, what we're gonna do is click and drag over here. And what you'll notice is, I can click and drag any sort of size. So that's fine, cut any sort of weed size. Gonna undo a few times, what I'd like to do is I want it to be a perfect circle, ok, shift is a, really kind of usable tool. So if I start dragging out, if I hold on to the shift key while I'm doing it, you can see it locks in the height and width, and that's true with rectangles or stars, polygons, circles, okay? So I'm gonna get it to roughly the right size. I'm gonna grab my black arrow. I'm gonna click either the edge, or if you can see this dot here, grab the dot, okay, that will center. If you got it the wrong size, okay, say it's just still too big, and you try to line it up and you're like, [SOUND] it's kinda close. But what you can do is you can resize it. Just like we did before is that I can grab any of these little guys in the corner. The trouble with resizing it this way is, you can see I'm kinda distorting the shape. So what I wanna do is, before I do it, so I've undone a couple of times, is if I hold the Shift key and grab any of the corners, doesn't matter which corner it is, okay. It will lock the height and width like we did when we created the circle, okay? So holding Shift just kinda locks the height and width until I get to the right size and my circle is not perfect, okay? So don't worry too much about it. Another thing you can do here is if you're finding that you're trying to line it out and it's like jumping all around, okay. Get a close where you want it and then with your keyboard, start with my black arrow. Look down on the keyboard, you've got your up down and left right. Your cases. I'm just using my case hierarchies just to kind of tap it around the little bit. Okay, little bit left, little bit up. That often can be a nicer way to just kind of do fine adjustment in illustrator. All right, let's do this little upside down curve and makes him the happy content [LAUGH] penguin. Anybody seen Penghu? Anyway, he's my inspiration for this one. So what we wanna do is, I could draw a curve. There's lots of ways of doing curves. This is really easy way, though, is if you click and hold down. So hold down the Line Segment tool, there's an Octal, okay. So with the Octal, just draw anywhere out here. Doesn't really matter too much which way it goes cuz we can rotate it. So do it so it's kind of a nice curve-ish. What I'd like to do is go back to my black arrow. Remember, this is our default go back to it tool. And it does so many things. We use it to resize the circle a second ago. We can also use it to rotate. Now, what we need to do is, we need to zoom in a little bit. So who remembers what the shortcut was? You remember, right? It's Cmd+ on a Mac, or Ctrl+ on a PC. So let's zoom in a little bit. I'm going to show you why in a second. And to rotate this thing, we need to be in a kind of special zone. So when we're resizing it before remember we held Shift, and we drag this up and down to make it kinda bigger and smaller. The rotation is very close, so clicking in the corner and dragging resizes it but just as we figure out, and then this kind of like, so too close, no, perfect, too far. Perfect. This is kind of like every corner has this kind of like rotation zone in it. You wiggle with your mouse around and hopefully find it. You're looking for that kind of bent arrow. And if you click hold and drag there, just click hold, drag your mouse, it'll stop moving it around, okay. And just kind of find it again, drag it around and so it's kind of, a curve that you could use for an eye. Now, I wanna move down a little bit. I could use these little sliders, they're fine. What's the shortcut? You remember, spacebar, click, hold, and drag, okay? And just move it down, and mine's way to big, so I'm holding Shift, just kind of rotating it around a bit. Don't worry if it's not the right, perfect curve, we're gonna show you different ways of doing it in a second but eh, that's close enough. Drag it down in the corner using my arrow keys just to line it up perfectly. So to join nice, good-looking curves, you can use the actle. You can rotate it by that little special area, kinda just outside the scaling part. Just out a bit further, that's rotation. Next thing, we'll look at is, we'll look at the stroke. This stroke, if I click off in the background, it's pretty thin, I want to kinda be nice and thick in the inside here, cuz it's a bit more of a design feature. So I'm gonna select once with black arrow, and over here, okay, where it says stroke, I'm going to use this little up arrow. You can drop this down and pick one, or you can just use the up arrow, just a click and pick a size. I'm gonna pick 4 point, for no good reason, just looks thick enough, and that looks fine. I'm gonna click off in the background. And I've got this kind of like rainbow kind of shaped thing. What I'd like it to do is I'm gonna eventually round all these corners. Just the thing I'm going for. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna show you a little trick. You click on the stroke here, we're gonna look at what's called capping. Capping is the end here. Can you see that it's a straight line? I would like it to be like a little bulbous end, okay? So I'm gonna click on it once. Over here, our stroke, we don't have many options, right? We have color and we have the size of it, but if you click on the word, Stroke, ta da. There's all sorts of nerdy stuff in there, okay. So what we're gonna do in this case is, it's called the capping, the unfortunately named butt cap, and then there's a second one the, round cap. Click on that, you'll keep straight face, right? Okay, the second one, round cap, is kind of what we want, right? It's kind of this nice, more gentle end on it, okay? This one here, the last one, I don't use projecting cap, I kind of just, the butt cap, there's a projecting cap. You can kinda see what it does, it puts it like a square on the outside. I can use the round cap. That can really help your later on when you're working with Illustrator, you've got some really, like ugly edges or ends of strokes. Just switch into rounded cap can like finish them off nicely. We'll look at stroke a little bit more in another video, but that's it for now, let's click off in the background, click off. Happy, smiley, content penguin. All right, next up, we'll do some triangles. So I wanna do the beak, I wanna do the flipper. [LAUGH] Is it wing? I don't know, penguins, and his tail. So they're all kind of triangles with rounded edges. So to do a triangle, is you hold down the Ellipse Tool, the Rectangle Tool, and you gotta move to this one called the Polygon Tool. So a triangle is essentially a polygon, just a three-sided one. By default, you're gonna get a pentagon? I don't know. I'm not sure what that one is, but I'm gonna delete it using my Delete key on my keyboard. What I wanna do is just click once instead of dragging out, and it gives you the polygon options. So I've got the polygon tool selected, and I just click once on my screen. It gives you some options before you start drawing, and I'm gonna pick three sides, please. Not gonna worry about the radius for the moment, I'm gonna resize it once I'm done. So three sides, click OK, and I get this kind of giant triangle. So first up, let's resize it and rotate it, so I'm gonna use my black arrow, make sure it's selected by clicking the edge of it. I'm gonna make sure it has no fill, make sure it has a black stroke, and I'm not too worried about the size of it just yet. So to resize it and rotate it, resizing, remember is just grabbing this corner a bit here and just getting it down to a size. Rotating it is that magical area around the outside. Now, what you might wanna do is, at the moment, when you're rotating, it just kinda goes around in random degrees. If you hold Shift, remember that magical tool? Okay, hold down the Shift key on your keyboard, and you start rotating it, okay, you see it does it in 45 degree increments. You might want your nose to be that sort of shape. So clicking either the center or the edge, move it around, get into position, resize it, rotate it around until you've got a nose. It doesn't have to be the same as my nose. I wanted mine to be flat on the bottom, so I'm gonna try and rotate it using the magical rotation. Make sure it's big enough. Get it to overlap quite a bit in the back here, okay. I'll show you one in a second. Arrow keys just to have it down, triangle's overlapped a bit more. Why? Because I wanna change the kind of the roundness on the end, okay. So I'm gonna grab this little corner option, a little tug it in and drag it in. Make it a little bit bigger, drag that corner in, and you can see that done it to all sides. You could do our secret trick, remember, when you click on it once, and just do it individually, but it's a little bit easier just to hide these in here. We're gonna make both the nose black and and his little body black. So we wanna reuse this, I'm gonna have it selected, okay. Hold my beak there, I'm gonna edit, Copy, Edit, Paste, okay, and I'm gonna put this down here. Missing about that, looks like a good flipper to me. Copy and Paste it again. I am going to rotate it around. I just used Command + C and Command + V on a Mac. You can use Control + C and Control + V on a PC. There we go. Now, you'll notice, I'm trying to line it up in the bottom here. It does some clever stuff where it tries to like automatically line up. If yours is not doing that, it's called Smart Guides. Go on View, and you can see my Smart Guides is turned on. It's got a check next to it, okay. It just means it tries to align things up automatically for you, and it's super handy. It can also be a bit of a pain, as well. So you can go to View and to uncheck it, if you're not liking, like jumping around, lining up stuff. Some people don't. All right, the last thing I'm gonna do is his body. Should've done that earlier, okay. When we had the Rectangle Tool, and I grab the Rectangle Tool, I'm gonna hover, you can kinda see it says Path, that just means I'm just going to start bang on the edge of his body here. It's really handy, it's one of those Smart Guides, okay. I'm gonna say, click, hold, and drag. I've got my rectangle. Don't worry to much about the stroke around the outside. Remember black arrow, I'm gonna grab this, click once, drag him down to match. And same with this one, I'm going to click him and drag him up to match my, that's probably why it didn't do the little belly earlier on. I'm just adding more, kind of things that could go wrong for us. So I'm gonna try to line it up. Actually, I'm gonna bring it, yeah, here you go, perfect. [LAUGH] That's why it didn't do it. So we've got the body, let's do the feet as well. So I'm gonna do the foot with the Rectangle Tool, grab just that corner with my black arrow. I don't actually have to go with my black arrow, it's just a good habit to get into. Click on it once, drag it down, what I'm gonna do is copy and paste them, so Command + C and Command + V, two of them. And I try to them line them up. It's pretty good at lining, I'm not depending in which corner you grab it. So notice that if I grab the center here, it intersects, very good, nice. He's got two little feet at the bottom. All right, let's look at the couple the other drawing tools. We're gonna use just the regular, old straight line, okay, the Line Segment Tool. It had some fancy word for just drawing a line. And all you do is click, hold, and drag, okay. Click, hold, and drag. Those are two little, I'm not even sure what they are, little feathers out the back of his head? But what I'd like to do as well is change the width of this, okay? I'm gonna match, maybe, this. Remember it was four point, I think, that we used for that? And we changed the capping, okay. So what I wanna do is do both at the same time. So what I'm gonna do is go to edit undo. It was kind of back to the same shape it was. So like we did with the corner options, we can select more than one at a time and it's that same key. So I have my black arrow, I have the first one selected, then I hold down shift and click in the middle of the second one. So I have both of them selected at the same time. Now over here in stroke I'm gonna say I'd like you to be four point, and under stroke I'd like to change from that one to that one. All right let's look at the last, well last kind of new thing that I want to show you. We'll draw the rectangles and stuff for the water and the weeds, but this one here where he get a sheriff badge is [LAUGH] only purely so I could show you how to draw a star and a polygon. And you know how to draw a polygon probably. Okay, click hold, the rectangle tool, we saw it before, polygon. And it remembers the last setting, so the last time we used it, we said be three sides, so it's kinda defaulting to that now. So what we're gonna do is, remember, just click once out here, put it back to what it was, which was five sides. Click okay, and we get our pentagon, I think. Octagon, no, pentagon. I wanna lock in pentagon, okay? And I magically got mine the right size. If you don't remember, grab the edges here, hold down Shift while you're dragging those edges, it will lock the height and width. And just kinda move it in by grabbing the edges. Okay here we go, if it's the wrong fill and the wrong stroke, with it selected you can go and change the fill to none, and the stroke there. Let's do our star, so the star is there, is an actual star tool, so click and hold down this little kind of shape group, and grab the star tool. And if you click, hold and drag out, you'll get just a regular star. To adjust the star, you're gonna undo it, click once, and you can decide on how many points it has and how pointy they are. Just to mess around with the radiuses to experiment with it, it's hard to describe. But my one's fine the way it was I'm gonna leave everything by itself. I'm gonna cancel, and just draw the star. Now to lock it into a perfect kind of horizontal and vertical, hold Shift, remember that magical tool. When in doubt, probably hold down Shift. Grab the black arrow. Click, hold, and drag. Get it close. Hold down Shift grab on to the corners, drag it out. We're getting good at this, alright. What I'd like to do is make sure all the, it will try its very best to align these perfectly. Okay if you're like I know it's not aligned perfectly, so what you can do is select both of them. Remember our trick, have the star selected? Which key do you hold down? That's right, Shift key, click the center of this pentagon, and what you'll see over the side here is that you've got your align option. So I wanna make sure they're aligned horizontally center, and vertically center, and they are perfect already. I'm gonna move mine off hold Shift grab both of them just to show you what it actually does. Now the r perfectly centered so I'm just gonna mine way off so it makes it more clear of what we're doing. So I'm gonna make sure it's horizontally center and vertically center. Can never remember which is which so I just click both. All right so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna drag it I've got them both selected. And I'll hold down Shift key, I want them to be a lot smaller. So Space bar to move her along, grab one of the edges, hold down Shift, to get it to a kind of I don't know, sheriff badge size. All right, the last couple of things we're gonna do is I'm gonna zoom out a little bit so I can put in. That is meant to be the ground and that is meant to be the water, if you weren't sure. I'm going to grab my rectangle tool. I'm gonna click, hold, and drag, and I'm gonna get close to this edge. And it's gonna, [SOUND], it happens all the time. Where you kind of just get close to it, and Illustrator kind of you get lost this way. So I've got this giant rectangle. To get back, okay, we can go to View and just go to the one that says Fit All in Window. It kind of gets you back to home base. Command zero on your keyboard, okay. On a MAC, or control zero on your keyboard is a really common shortcut, to do the same thing. Otherwise, let's go to View and go to one that says Fit outward to window or fit all to window. Okay, we'll get back to here. I'm gonna delete with my keyboard. We'll go to undo to get rid of the giant rectangle. I'm gonna draw one that kind of goes just here. Other one. [SOUND] And I'm gonna draw in my circles. And I'm gonna cheat a little bit with the circles. I'm gonna draw a circle. Zoom in a little bit. I'm gonna copy and paste it instead of drawing lots of them. And resize them That's not even cheating. It takes just as long. Maybe even just easier drawing them. Holding Shift maybe to get a perfect circle. Yeah okay that first way is easier. All right, next thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna add some color, well actually, forgot the tuft of grass. I'm just gonna use my above the Act tool, there you go Act tool. There's gonna be a bit of rotation going on so, maybe not. That'll do. [LAUGH] Beautiful. All right, we're gonna come back and look at strokes in a bit more detail to maybe give these a little bit more prettiness but for the moment that's gonna do for me. What I'd like to do is add some fill colors cuz at the moment you use I don't know, weird shapes and sizes, so I'm gonna fill work our way through, adding fills, messing with strokes, resizing strokes, grouping, arranging and we'll do all of that in the very next video. All right I'll see you then. Hi there, this video we're going to take our drawing from the last video and do this to it. We're going to color him in, but along the way we're going to use grouping, arranging. What isolation mode is? All sorts of fun stuff, lets get started. All right, let's look at grouping, arranging, we're also gonna color them in. If that sounds real simple, hang around cuz there's things like isolation mode that you really need to understand before moving on. All right, so first up, let's turn off our trace layer, okay? It was useful for getting us here, but we don't need it anymore. So under your layers panel, let's just turn the eyeball off, or this little icon here. The first icon in the Layers panel, we don't need it anymore. You can click on it and hit the trash can way down the bottom here and that will just get rid of it. And I'm just gonna leave mine there, I'm gonna undo, just turn it off. So let's first of all look at grouping and then isolation modes. So I'm zooming in, I want to do a couple things. I want to grab my pentagon and I want to give it a black fill. So I'm going to click on fill, make it black. And I'm going to get the stroke and none color. We have a small problem, as there now star. You can see if I use my black arrow, I can just hover above and eventually, find my star by just clicking the little blue line that appears, it's there. But because it's black on black and it has no center, it can't be seen. So let's have a look at fixing that. So, stroke, I don't want any stroke on it. And the fill, I would like this option here for white. Cool, so I wanna group these two. So I need to select both of them, sometimes you can't click both. I'm gonna zoom in just a little bit. Makes it a little easier to click individual items when they are really close. So I clicked on my pentagon, okay? I'm gonna hold shift, and click on my star. So, I've got them both selected. So, what I want to do is group them, so that they kind of stick together. Okay, so I can go up to Object and go to this one that says Group, there it is at the top. All that means now, is if I click off in the background and I click back on just either one of them, they’re both kinda connected. It’s not forever, okay, I can go to select and go to Ungroup, and that will separate them up again. But that’s how to group them, grouping is handy. One thing you will run into is something called isolation mode and this is where most people get lost in Illustrator. The people that I teach quite a few then add double clickers, they love double clicking stuff. [LAUGH] What happens is, I don't know. We know from lots of programs, you're gonna double click things but if you double click in illustrator, everything goes wrong. So if I double click a star, double click, okay. What happens is the background greys out and I can still work on these guys, but I can't work on the background anymore. All that's happened is you've entered something called isolation mode. And the way to really tell is at the top here, can you see this thing, this gray bar here didn't appear before. I'm gonna go back out of it by clicking this arrow twice. Okay, so I'm back out of it, it'll appear up here, I'll move so it's easier to see. If I double click on this, this little bar appears and everything else that's not in that group is kinda blanked out. Why do we have it? It's mainly to confuse everybody that I'm teaching, but it actually has a really good use. It means that when I'm back outta here, so I've got these things together. But I wanna kind of move them, I want the star in a different position to the pentagon. So, instead of going to Ungroup and then moving around and then regrouping them. What you can do, is just double clicking them. And think of it as going inside that group, we've kind of dived inside. Everything else is grayed out, it's not important, now we're inside this group. Okay, now these guys are separate again. So I can go actually, I want my star to be, I don't know why, but you want it down there. And what it means is, I can click this arrow to go back to layer one and then all the way out to exit isolation mode. Just keep smashing away at that little arrow untill it goes away. And now, there's still a group, okay? But you were able to dive inside and change it. So I'm gonna dive inside again, grab it, stick it back roughly in the middle, roughly enough. We're gonna stick both of them and arrange them. And again, you can keep clicking on the arrow to go back, or double click the background. That kind of jumps you out like bit of a quicker shortcut. So if you ever get lost and think ike man, that thing's not working, it's not locked. And from inside of here, you can see a lot of these things don't work, these menu items, their all grayed out. Because we're in this kind of like special world isolation mode. Double click the background to come out, everything will come back to normal. So if you're lost, click the arrow or double click the background and you can come out. Hopefully you can see the use of isolation mode. Let's look at another things, so I'm gonna work on both of these little thing here, and I'll click on this. We're gonna put the edges member of this foot. I'm gonna click fill, I'm gonna pick an orange, just randomly from in here. And I'm gonna have stroke of, none. I'm gonna click this fella, this other foot, and I'm gonna do the same thing. I'm gonna make it slightly darker orange, okay? And I'm going to have a stroke of, none. Now, the trouble is is that this one that I kind of want at the back is in front of my front foot. Just because I, I drew him last, okay? But if you draw ends up on top of the last things. So what I can do is I can select them, I can go to Arrange, and I can go to Send to back. And there you go, that's how to arrange things. And we're gonna do lots of arranging now. We're gonna get the layer order all right. You can use layers but in Illustrator, unlike something like Photoshop, you generally only have one layer that you work on. You can add more but because these are all kind of individual vector objects Illustrator, allows you just to kind of arrange them and bring them to the front. If you want this guy at the front now, I can click on Arrange and say bring to the front, Arrange and Send it Back. One other really useful thing to know before we go through and start coloring stuff is that, watch this. If I grab my penguin, I'm just grabbing all of the penguin bits. Okay, so I've just dragged a box instead of holding shift, okay? And shift clicking it all, that would work, okay? It'll be there for a long time. What you can do with your black arrow is just click, hold, and drag a box kinda roughly around. Can you see I haven't colored the feet? Cuz I don't want that rectangle at the bottom, which is my ground. I'm gonna go just above there, and because I've overlapped those last little objects it should select them all. That's one way of doing it. What I'd like you to do is, by default I can't exactly remember whether it's on or off. I'm gonna show you both ways. So, what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna scale this down. So I've got everything selected. I'm gonna hold my shift, so it scales it proportionally, grab the corner. I'm gonna scale it right down to my teeny tiny version of my penguin. Something weird happens, [LAUGH] right? All of the stokes are, they don't scale down proportionally, okay? That is still like a nice solid, where is my eye in the middle? Remember we made him four point, he is still four point, so I'm gonna undo. So there's gonna be times when you need that to scale down, where you want these strokes just to remain the exact size you told them to do be. So ,to do that let's click off into the background, but nothing selected. This is option here the scale stroke and effects, okay? So with nothing selected you can turn on and off. You'll be turn on and off recently, for me, I turn it on and off quite often. Okay, so I cut it off, I'm going to drag oral this guys. I'm going to shrinking them right down. To be a little mini penguin, you see all the strokes came along for the ride. Other than to see a tiny penguin, I wanted to show you that little technique, okay? Before we move on. So I'm going to undo so he's back to his regular size. When would you want to use this? Let's say, that you're drawing something that's a bit more, say, you're a fashion designer and you need a stitch, okay? And you need to resize it, but you need that stitching detail to stay the same. Or say, you were drawing like I've taught open planners. This illustrator gets used by lots of different people, say this is a road, okay? And this is another road, say these are not these are roads, okay? And I wanna scale them up and down but I want them to keep the same thickness to match everything else at some of my document. Okay, so I wanna scale it up and down but I wanna retain the thickness. But most of the time, have nothing selected, just make sure it's on. That's a, I bet you probably 70% at the time, you just gonna need to leave it on. But no, that's where it is when you wanna scale it down, you can turn it off and it will keep its stroke size. All right, we're gonna work through and color this fella using our new found grouping, arranging techniques. I'm gonna click on the body. I'm gonna say you my mind have got to fill a black. And a stroke of wait, actually, I might do him last because he kind of makes these a little bit harder to use. So I'm gonna click on him. I'm gonna shift and then click on the eye because I wanna do the same thing. I want them both to have a white center, and no stroke please, awesome. Now, I'm gonna click on the body, and I want the body to have a fill of white. And, nope, I want it to have a fill of black and I'd like to have it no stroke. Okay, so my alignment's actually working out fine except for my little flipper here, you can kinda see him. So it's a little bit hard to find that flipper. I can kinda roll around and I eventually find them. And that's actually probably just perfect. Click on them, and I can say you, my friend, have a fill of black, a stroke of white. And I wanna bring you to the front, by going to Arrange, and say Bring to Front. Another way to do it, I'm gonna undo, okay? So I can't see it, right? There was a kind of skeleton view you can use, it's called Outline. If I go to View, and go to this one that says Outline, okay? It's a common thing to use, Cmd+Y, okay? Or Ctrl+Y, can you see, it's just like a really wire-frame version. So you can do things like, actually, click on him cuz it easier to see in this view. I can go to Arrange, Bring to Front. Then go to View, and so you see Cmd+Y toggles between GPU View. Which is [LAUGH] not a sexy way of calling it, but it just toggles outline to view, outline to view. So, I do that quite a bit if I lose something. If I'm like, mm, I'm pretty sure there was a flipper here somewhere. I can just go to command y on my Mac, or control y on my PC, and just select them. I'm gonna grab you, I'm gonna give him a no stroke. [SOUND] I want you to be the same, you are going to have no stroke and a black fill my little beak. I'm gonna grab you who are nicely grouped, my little sheriff's badge penguin. You'll notice, I should've selected all of these on one go, because they're all doing the same thing. I can do another little trick is, can you see this little eye dropper tool here? Okay, it says eye dropper tool, so to make it work I have this selected. Okay, the outside of it, grab the eyedropper tool, and then click on the middle of my beak here. And it goes and steals the same settings, so it changes the fill and the stroke to match it. It's handy little advanced one. All right, what I might do is I might grab this, is gonna be a fill of some sort of grey thing here. And I'm gonna show you a few other color options. So grey, I'm not sure why it's grey. It's ice, I just wanna a really monochromatic design. This edge of this for the water, what I'm gonna do is, say you've got these presets in here, okay? Just, these are premixed, they're called swatches. Adobe has just said these are the ones, they're just some defaults, and they're good. But say you want your own custom color. See this little icon here? Color mixer? Okay, it gives the option down at the bottom for this thing here called the RGB spectrum. It's just a little rainbow-colored thing, click anywhere on it. And it's the tip of the little eyedropper will be the color, so you can pick any old color you like. Move it around, pick any old color there, common on. That's gonna work for me ish. All right, a bit more green. And I'm gonna get rid of the stroke on these guys, same with you. Goodbye, stroke. And now, I'm just messing around, you can skip through the next video now. [LAUGH] I'm gonna go through and color all of these holding shift to grab them all, here we go. We're gonna go fill with white. Now, remember if you want to go back the swatches, click on this first one. And I'm going to have a stroke. I'm going to put in a little bit of a background color because I want to see my white belly a little bit better. So I'm going to put in, you can change the background color, okay? You know how it's white there the page color? You can't just go and say set background color like you can on some programs, you actually have to draw a box. So rectangle tool, I'll draw it all the way across covering the whole thing. I'm gonna give it a color of that really light grey, there we go. And I'm gonna give it a stroke of none, and I'm gonna say arrange in the back please. And that just means that you can see the belly of my little dude there. And if you're like me, I don't like his little potbelly now [LAUGH]. I'm gonna click on him, click on that guy once, to get the corner. And just drag him back down, so he's got a nice square belly, [LAUGH]. All right, my feet a little bit, so you can kinda see that he's got feet at the side. All right, so that's us for this video. We have created a little potbelly contender penguin. And what I'd like to do is give you a task now, okay? So I'd like you to create your own creature. The boundaries are, you have to use the tools we've learned in the last three videos. So just things like simple shapes like our triangles, pentagons, stars, rectangles. The corners you can use? I don't want you to use any of the other tools, just these simple tools we've used. The other thing is let's keep your animals, I'm gonna give you some boundaries. We're going for ocean going animals. It could be in the sea, or like a penguin, kind of related to the sea. So pick another animal and doesn't matter whether you hand draw it and then scan it in. Or whether you just draw it straight in Illustrator, it's up to you. Now remember, this is your first drawing, so don't worry if you're like this isn't good. I would love to see it, okay? So if you take a screen shot or save this as a JPEG. If you're not sure how to save a JPEG, we'll do it later in the course, okay. Look for a video court exporting from illustrator. You can kinda sneak it here to that one just so you can get the tape work out or you can just do a screenshot. And I'd love for you to upload and tag it to me in Twitter and Instagram. So on Twitter, I am danlovesadobe. Also tag in totsplus, okay? So I invited totsplust. They Tod's plus design on twitter, and on instagram, I am being your own laptop. Tag me in, I'd love to see what you did. So pause it now, go do that. And then I will see you in the next video where we start looking at something called the shape builder tool, all right? I'll see you then. Hello, and welcome. This video is all about the Shape Builder Tool. We're gonna take the drawing we did earlier, this one, and do this to it. What do we do? Okay, we cast some shadows, can you see? Before, after. We cast some shadows on the penguin using a real quick and easy tool, using the shape builder. We also did some stuff with the eye there where it's kind of a pie shape cut out of the circle. If you have tried illustrated before, and you've missed around with the path finder, and that was really tough, this is a replacement for it, it is awesome, you'll love it. It's been far too much time hoping this up, let's just jump in, and learn how it works. All right, to get started, let's go to File, let's go to Open, and in your exercise files, there's one cool cheap builder tool, we want the one that says 1, shape builder tool 1. Not particularly exciting, we just got some shapes, now, these are nothing special. Just like we did in the last videos, just I drew some circles, and some squares, and a star. Now, where the shape builder is quite cool, we're gonna just learn the basics here, and then, we're gonna go back and do what you saw at the beginning there where you kind of add some shadows and. So when that all selected, so I grab my black arrow, I've drawn a box all the way around it, or you can hold Shift, and click one, try clicking them all. Either way, once you got the ball selected, we want the Shape Builder Tool. It's this one here, so hard one to describe. Two targets and an arrow. Okay, click on this guy here, it's underneath the pin, notice a couple of ways to use shape builder, so by default, you can kinda see my cursor there has a little plus. Okay, and what that allows me to do, is these are two separate shapes. What I can do is click in here, hold, drag, drag, drag, and kinda like clicking my mouse, holding and drawing a line in between all three of these. And watch this when I let go, it magics them all together. So now, if I go back to my back arrow, click off in the background, this is just one shape that's all been joined up. We're gonna undo, I'm gonna select them all again, and I'm gonna show you some other things it does. So shape builder, okay, by default, it's got the little plus, but if I hold down the option key on my Mac, or Alt key on a PC, can you see it changes from a plus to a minus? And now, let's me do things like this, I want to delete this trunk here. Just kinda snips a wall out where they overlap. If you've ever tried doing that with the path finder tool, maybe you've used illustrator in the past, man, that was a pain. So clicking and dragging across things, joins them up, holding down Option on a Mac, or on a PCs, allows you to click and delete things, super handy, I'll show you it's other really good use. So I'm gonna draw a big rectangle across all of these guys, just cuz I wanna show you something. So I've drawn a rectangle, gonna grab my black arrow, gonna select all of them. I'm gonna jump to my Shape Builder Tool, and does another good thing. Rather than just joining up and removing things, you can actually color shapes where they all overlap. Cuz remember this rectangle's just a rectangle, okay, I wanna color some intersections, so I'm gonna select them all, black arrow, back to my Shape Builder Tool, go to my Properties panel, and then here, I can pick a fill color. So I can say, back to my swatches maybe. I'm gonna pick blue for no good reason. I'll pick [LAUGH] for another no good reason. And what we can do, is click it to drop it back in, and now, look what happens, look, magic. I can just color bits where they overlap. Now, you might not find this amazing, I do. It’s just super quick and easy for coloring vector. I can pick different colors. So instead of trying to joint them, and break them apart, and make them complete shapes, I can just click a fill color and just click on one of these separate shapes. Now, if you feel totally underwhelmed by this tool, It's cuz I got a really simple exercise here, just to get the basics going. So remember, click and hold, and drag across to join things. Hold down the Option key, or Op key on a PC to minus things. You can drag across with minus as well, to minus big chunks. And remember, with nothing held down, I can just pick a fill, and then, just click on them to color. So I'm gonna close this down, and we're gonna open up another file. So I'm not gonna save it, cuz we didn't do anything very exciting. Some terrible colors there. What I'd like you to do now, is get a file, get it opened. I want you to open up Shape Build It 2. So this exercise here, we're gonna do some more practical uses that actually build a two, and hopefully, you'll see the value then. First thing I wanna do before I get started, black arrow, I click on my sky. This is kind of big grey box in the background here. What I wanna do is something unrelated to the Shape Builder Tool, but often useful when you've got this background color. I wanna put it on its own layer and lock it, so it's not getting in the way of me working on my penguin here. So with it selected, let me go to my Layers panel, I'm gonna make a brand new layer, that's this little turned-up page here, create new layer, of the top all the way up here, it's giving me the thing called, Layer3. I'm gonna double-click the word Layer3, gonna call this Background. Just to give everything a name, Layer1, okay, is where all my drawing is, so I'm gonna double-click Layer1, and this is gonna be my drawing. So background has nothing on it at the moment. It's a layer with nothing on it. What I'd like to do, is put the sky on it, and then lock it. So to do that, black arrow. Make sure the sky is selected. You can see this little blue dot here. Okay, that means, that, that's indicating that it's on this layer here. The sky's actually on the drawing layer. To move it to the background layer, click and hold this little blue spot, until he goes to this layer. That just says, I've dragged him from drawing to the background layer. The trouble with the background layer, it is above everything else. You can kinda see it up here. You see background first, then drawing underneath, and remember that template we had right underneath at all. To change that, grab background, click Hold, and drag the word. You can see these little lines up here everywhere? It's kind of a weird like, so click and hold drag the weird background, until it appears just underneath the drawing there. You might have to practice that a couple of times. If it goes wrong, go to Edit Undo, and see if you can get it into the right position. So how do I know this is on the background layer? See that eyeball, turn it on, turn it off, turn it on, turn it off. So I know that's the background layer, it's underneath, I'm gonna click this little lock icon like I did for the background. What it means now, is if I try to move it, I can't. All right, next thing I wanna do, is just make sure I'm on my drawing layer. That's the one I'm gonna work on. I'm gonna go back to my properties panel. All right, so what I'd like to do, is I'm gonna change this eye. It's gonna go from content penguin. I'm gonna hit Delete on my keyboard. I'm gonna give him a different kind of eye like you saw at the beginning there. I'm gonna grab the ellipse tool, I'm gonna draw a nice big ellipse. Holding down Shift to get it to be perfect. I'm gonna give it a fill color, I'm gonna give it no stroke. What I wanna do is a second circle. So it's really common in cartoons to kinda have that sliced out eye, okay? So I'm drawing another ellipse, holding down shift. It doesn't matter which color it is. Cuz we're gonna actually delete it. But I'm just making it blue, so it's easier for you to see. I'll move back to my selection tool. Gonna grab the center of it, and just kinda overlap it there. So it's kinda half off. I'm gonna slice that out of the eyeball. To make it look like a kind of a reflection. So I'm gonna select both of them. Go to my Shape Builder Tool. And what was the key how down to delete things? Do you remember? That's right. It's the option or cannot be seen. And I can say, you go, you go, and a cool thing about that now. You see how that was, got a cookie getter. I got my black arrow, like a diagram, and you can see it's actually a hole cut out of it. So I'm gonna hold shift, grab the edge, and get it to a Penguiny size, eye ball size [LAUGH], you can decide on how big you want this eye, all right, up to you. Or is it gonna be, yeah [LAUGH], all right, it's enough, so let's minusing, we kinda minus that circle from that circle, what I wanna do is join something, so I'm gonna click with my black arrow with the white belly, I'm just gonna drag it up here, so it kinda overlaps. I'm gonna kinda get it so it matches up with the noseish. Cuz that's the kinda look that I want. I want it to be cool, kinda one. So I'm gonna click this. Hold shift, and click this at the center. So they're two super units spot, but using my handy dandyShape Builder Tool, I can drag across holding nothing down, just drag across them, kinda draw a line through all three, and papers though, it's one unit. Cool? And remember the other use for coloring parts? We're gonna add some kinda like fake shadow, so let's grab the line segment tool, and I'm gonna draw a line, let's zoom in a little bit, so you can see, I'm gonna draw a line segment that kinda goes from there down to, you can draw it all the way through. Let's draw it all the way through just so you can see what to do with the left over bits. I'm gonna do you. So drawing a line through it. I'm gonna grab my black arrow. And I need to click both the nose and this line. Your line might have a big thick stroke on it. That's fine, it doesn't matter. What we need to do is have that selected, hold Shift and click the nose. So you got both of them selected. Back to my handy dandy Shape Builder Tool. Remember for coloring, we need to have the Shape Builder selected first, then go to Fill, okay, then pick a color. I'm just gonna pick a, kind of a lighter gray, and I'm just gonna click on this. Maybe a slightly darker version. It's meant to be light hitting his beak, anyway. So it's worked, I colored it, but this is an overlapping hanging bit. Now, remember, what key to hold down to remove things: it's Alt on a PC, Option on a Mac, and I can just click on it. Cool? Love that stuff. Next thing I wanna do is the same with this, and it's just repeat. So I'm gonna grab my line tool, I'm gonna draw like a little highlight that kinda goes through here. Shift click them both. Now, what you would have noticed there or might not have noticed, is that I started using a shortcut, and I'm gonna show you just cuz shortcuts are great. So I was on my line segmental, I drew it through here, then I wanted to go back to my Move tool. And the Move tool, if I hover above it, can you see it has a little V in brackets? That just means that if I click my V key on my keyboard, so it's not on there at the moment, watch, this big E jumps, okay? If I wanna go to my Shape Builder Tool, it's a weird one, it's Shift+M. I use it all the time, cuz I use this tool all the time. Okay, Shift+M, so if you're using the Pencil tool all the time, you can see in it, I don't use the Pencil tool very often, so I don't even know what that shortcut is, but I know V is the move key, I know Shift+M is the Quick Selection Tool, there's the Shape Builder Tool, I know P is the pin tool, T is the type tool. Just the stuff you use very often, just hover above it, and it will give you the shortcut. Some of them don't have some, because they just don't get used very much. All right, so V key, I've got them both selected. Shift+M to my Shape Builder Tool. I'm gonna pick a fill color, my friend of that dark gray, like it wants. Hold down my Alt key, or Option key on a MAC. One more cash shadow, and then we'll do one more special trick that the shape builder can do, so don't leave just yet. So first of all, I wanna join these two fellows together, so I'm gonna hold Shift, click both of them, go to my Shape Builder Tool, draw a line through them, throw one unit, and what I'm gonna do, is I'm gonna duplicate it. So I'm gonna go back to my black arrow here, I'm gonna copy it, using edit copy, and edit paste. So I've got this little speech bow. [LAUGH], but it's built out of. So what I'm gonna do, is I'm just gonna offset it a little bit. Now, because my smart guides are on, it's very clever and tries to kind of line everything up, which is exactly what I want, actually what I might do is, Do something like that where it's kind of just down a little bit. So now, what I wanna do, is I'm going to select both of them, so shift, click both of them. If you're not sure if you got both of them, just kinda move them, and then undo it to go back. I use this for that kind of vector cast shadows all the time. We're gonna use the same trick, pick a fill color. We'll use that lighter gray. That doesn't work, unless you're on the Shape Builder Tool. I was on my section tool there, so when I changed my fill, it just changed everything. Make sure you're on your shape builder first, pick your fill color, and then, over here, just click on that once. Okay, get your black arrow. I've got all this junk left over, this thing here, I don't need him anymore, delete. I used him just to kinda get that the wall's a bit bright. A bit better, you get what I mean, right? So I'll use it to cast the shadow. There's a weird thing down the bottom here. I'm not sure where he came from. I'm gonna hit Delete, he's gone. So I promised you one other little trick you can do with the Shape Builder Tool. Is that, remember when this tail was separate from the back? Of joining with this Shape Builder Tool, it allows you to do cool things like this. Grab your white arrow, we've been using the black arrow quite a bit. The black arrow is perfect for moving big lumps around the whole thing, everything needs to go. If I use the white arrow, the white arrow is for moving a little parts within the lump. Okay, so let's say, it is here, if I use the black arrow, remove this corner. It moves everything, okay? But if I grab the white arrow, click on the corner once, then try and drag it, I get kind of little bits of individual control. And we'll look at that a little bit more when we use the pencil. But for the moment, the cool thing about it, is it says, I'm gonna click on here, and you get this corner radius. Can you see it? A little dot on the inside of the angle. I can click and drag it up, and I get these kinda nice curves. So the same thing for the gray one, click and drag him up, and get these nice kind of angles going on. You can do the same for this star here, and back click it with the white arrow, it's called the direct selection tool, okay? White arrow, you might just zoom in a bit, if you found it a little hard to work on, grab that, and just tuck him in. Cool? So you got any points that you're like. I like them, but I just want them to be curved. Curved tool, they are cool corner options, and they are awesome. All right, so that's our penguin. With some cast shadows, and some holes cutting things. It's called the Shape Builder Tool. I should finish it there, but I'm not. I'm gonna grab the line tool, and I'm gonna cast a shadow. I don't know in the water from the land. Okay, holding shift grab them both, like a fill collar. Remember, this is not gonna work, okay, we've got to have an undo, got the Shape Builder Tool first. I'll leave it in there, because you'll do the same thing, I do it all the time. I should know what I'm doing, I'm gonna pick color from my switches, and now, I'm gonna click it in there. Click off from the backgrounds, black arrow. [LAUGH] It's cool, it all kinda soothes, except for this thing where we drew, I wanna delete him so bad. Bye, we'll come back later on, and I will show you how to give him a bit more flavor using something called brushes. But for the moment, we're gonna move on to the next video where we create a kinda custom logo. What I really wanna do is show you how the Shape Builder Tool works. When we're not just drawing penguins, but when we're working, say, with icons, or logos. And we'll do that in the next video. Hi there. In this tutorial we are going to turn this pile of lines into this M that looks like it's kinda wrapping around on itself. We're gonna use our shape builder tool again, but we're gonna learn other tricks and tips for it so you can continue your mastery of Illustrator. Let's jump in and get started. All right to get started with this one, just gonna go to File and we're gonna go to a brand new document. So File New as defaulted to my recent items, if yours hasn't go to Print, go to US later, or A4, I'm gonna pick landscape just cuz, and down here under Advanced Options I'm going to switch it up to IGB. Okay, let's click Create. Then Save it, so File, Save, as I was using my shortcut there, File Save is Command S on a Mac, Ctrl S on a PC. And on my Desktop, I've got my class files, man, how efficient are we? This is gonna be my M logo, and often when I'm working on things, anything in Illustrator I'll put a v1 at the end, and a v2, and a v3 when I'm kinda doing updates. Never call it just logo cuz then you have to come up with something else for your number two. And it might be two or you might put in, never put in final. Final's the kiss of death, cuz then you have to come up with final-2, and final-revisited, clever names. So I find that v1, v2, v3 works just fine. Some people like to put the date at the end, up to you. MyLogov1, sounds good to me. Click Save. Never have to change this. Just click OK. And to center my document, Command-0 on my keyboard. Okay, just get it right in the middle. If you're on a PC, it's Ctrl 0. All right, so I'm gonna draw my logo using straight lines, okay? And we're gonna use the Shape Builder to kind of delete the bits we don't. Good project to see how useful the Shape Builder tool is, creating just more, stranger shapes. So we're gonna use a line segment tool, I'm gonna draw all out of lines. And I want a straight line up and down. I'll click and drag though, remember it goes any which way I drag it. But what key could I hold down on my keyboard to get to go straight? If you guess it, Shift key. Okay, if I hold down the Shift key, it locks it into 45 degree increments, and I just want it to be straight up and down. Okay, so I'm gonna drag it down, how long, everyone's M is gonna look a little different. I'm just gonna free hand it. So I want two of these little lines. So with my black arrow, I'm gonna go to Edit Copy, Edit Paste. So I had it selected, Edit Copy, Edit Paste. Grab the center, drag it along and it should just try and line up. If it doesn't try and line up, just make sure you're under View, your Smart Guides is turned on, should be a little tick next to it. If it's not, give it a click, and you should start working. So let's group these two, okay, Object, let's Group them. Cuz I wanna, with them selected, go to Copy, go to Paste, so I've got a second set. I'm gonna draw the inner part of the M, okay, at an angle. And remember, just using my black arrow, some vaguely outside of the corner we get the little bent arrow. Click and drag it until you feel you've got the angle right. And there's no right, I'm just kind of drawing something. Also make sure that they overlap quite a bit, why? Because we gonna kinda get them overlap and use our trick that we used when we did the shadows, to kind of fill in things and snip off the lines we don't need. So if they're not quite long enough you can just drag the ends like this to make them a little bit longer. What we'll also do is we'll group these two together, cuz what we're gonna do now is instead of trying to get the right angle on the other side is we're just gonna reflect this one across. So what we're gonna do is select them both, let's group them just to make it easier on ourselves. And then go up to Object, and there's one in here called, so Object, Transform, there's one in here called Reflect. Now weirdly, your trainer, your preview's not going to be on. Okay, this is weird. Horizontal, vertical, picking an angle, it doesn't matter, it's not gonna show up over here. So what you need to do is turn on Preview, so that if you're like me and you're \vertical, horizontal, there's even a little handy icon there. Thank you. Okay, if I click OK now, the trouble with it is that it's kinda deleted my original and reflected it across. That's what this little copy button here means. It means that I can make a copy of it and flip it, leaving the original there. Let's just click the button then and see what it does. So there you go. You've got your original areas there, and the new one. If you'd just click OK you'd only have this fellow left. So what I'd like to do is kinda line them up roughly. So they look like an M. Don't worry too much about it, what kind of M you have, I'm trying to visualize the M in those sticks. What I wanna do though is make sure that they're aligned cuz the moment this one hangs down lower than this one. So I'm gonna select both of them and I'm gonna say, it's arranged, it doesn't really matter which one, but it needs to be vertically. Here you go. So at least all the way down the bottom they're together. Okay, next thing we wanna do is zoom in a little bit. Maybe use lines to kinda cap these ends off, so I'm gonna use my line tool, no fill, black stroke, maybe use one point. And what I'm gonna do is, watch this, if I hover above this, okay, line, you can see this where it says path. Path is the name that illustrators, it's the nerdy name for a line, okay? So Illustrator will call it paths. The cool thing about it is see this where it gets up to here where these two lines join? It says intersect. This means do you wanna draw something that intersects these two lines? I'm like, [INAUDIBLE] yeah, that's awesome. Thank you illustrator. I wanna click, hold and drag it, and what you wanna notice is that, what's the handy shortcut I can make it to go straight? That's right, Shift, and I find with using this tool it's always better to go past where you need it. It's easy to trim off, but sometimes it can be a little bad if you don't get it quite banged in there perfectly. I find just going past where you need it to be is a lot better. Same thing over here, click and drag all the way through. What I might do for this one here is click hold and just drag through than I need it. It gives me a better result. Some of these bottom ones I'm gonna click hold and drag across all of these, all the way through, and now we're gonna use our super fancy Shape Builder tool to trim off all the stuff we don't need. So black arrow, draw a box around it all, make sure you've got it all selected, gonna grab our Shape Builder tool, and we're gonna start deleting things. To delete things, remember, what key do you hold down? That's right, Options Mac, O PC. And click and drag through all of this stuff. Sometimes you need to do it twice, just cuz, okay, drag though it all. Click in and drag it through, you can just click them once, click them again. [LAUGH] Sometimes, you get to click when you don't. There's some stuff in here I want to drag past, get rid of you. Get rid of you, get rid of you. Click through all of that, through all of that. Here we go, I've kind of trimmed it up to something that looks a little bit nicer, at least more like an M. Now I want to kind of make it so that this bit goes all the way and it joins it across, so remember you don't have to hold anything down to join them up. So I'm gonna click and drag across all three of these to make it one unit, and I"m gonna drag these two to kinda give this like folded origami M type thing. Probably the most overused [LAUGH] printing thing in the world, folded M shaped papers stuff. That's all right, I'm sure if you Google it you'll find 100 logos that look like this. But what I hope you got out of that is showing you how you can create something out of nothing just using simple lines. It doesn't have to be complete shapes or rounded corners. You can just draw a pile of sticks, you can hand draw with your pencil tool which we'll do in an upcoming video. Then tidy it up with the Shape Builder tool. So you can move on now, all I'm going to do is I'm gonna color it, okay, and what you'll notice that, can you see this is actually separate parts now? It's not actually a full unit, so I'm gonna select it all and color it using my Shape Builder tool. I go on about the Shape Builder tool being my favorite, it's because I've taught Illustrator for years and years, maybe, I don't even know. 15 years, and up until Shape Builder tool got made, man, it was hard teaching people Illustrator. But it's easier now. Anyway, so I've got it all selected on my back arrow, I've shifted to my Shape Builder tool, and what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pick a Fill color. I'm gonna say I want, I mean I'm just gonna work with black and white. We'll deal with color a little bit nicer later on in the course, so hang out for that. And I'll pick a darkish color to do that one and maybe and that one, we'll work it out. [LAUGH] Winging this, we just slightly lighter gray for this one, and even a lighter gray for this one, even lighter, come on, Dan And this last one here will be, I don't know, dark or a bit lighter. [LAUGH] I want to use color, but we're segmenting these out so we're not overwhelming everyone. Glorious. One thing I might do is can you see these little guys point out in the corners here? I'm gonna get rid of my strokes completely, we'll covered a bit more when we do lines. But I'm just gonna delete them so Strokes, it gonna be none. So I've just got kind of a full color. Whenever you're presenting a logo, I always find, I don't know why, it might just be me. And you draw a giant rectangle in the background because what I like to present on is a darker kinda gray. Logos are cool, maybe we get to use them in this dark gray, but they always look nice, presented against a nice solid gray. So my black arrow, I got it selected, I'm gonna say arrange into back. And I pick the same gray to that. [LAUGH] See my friend, needed different gray, darker? Yeah, look at that. How good is that M? All right, that is gonna be us [LAUGH] I hope you enjoyed it. I enjoyed making it. I too want you to enjoy the [LAUGH] joys of drawing lines. You've probably done the M with me. I would like you to pick another letter. Try not to pick anything that has a roundy part, because we just draw it with lines so pick a letter then can be drawn with straight lines. And I'd love to see what you do. Try your first name or your last name, whatever the first initial is or the last initial is. Mine's Dan Scott so it's terrible. Ds and Ss are not good for this tutorial. So my middle name is W, for Walter, so I can just turn this upside down I guess. But I want you to practice drawing a different letter, an E or an F or an L, something that has straight lines, and I'd love to see what you did. Remember on Twitter we are @danlovesadobe, and make sure you tag @TutsDesign as well. It's Tuts Plus Design, those are both for Twitter. If you're more of an Instagram person, tag me in it. I am bring your own laptop. All right, let's get onto the next video where we, instead of using simple shapes to make illustrations, we're gonna use something called the Curvature Tool to draw our own custom stuff. There'll be curves involved. All right, let's jump into it now. Hello, illustrator learners. In this video, we are going to draw these icons using the curvature tool. It's like the pen tool, just a bit easier. Let's get started. All right, to get started, let's make a new blank document, so File, New. It's already loaded with my last thing I've done, okay. So I've set it to inches and it's just remembered. Landscape, US letter, okay. I'm gonna click Create. I'm gonna bring in something we're gonna trace and a little tip for you. If you are bringing in things to be traced, if I leave it here, you can see it's kinda offset a little bit to the right of my screen. It's gonna put my trace document overlapping this edge here. But if I quickly go to View and go to Fit Upward to Window, okay, so it's in the center. Now,when I bring it in, it's going to be in the middle. It's a weird little quirk. All right, so go up to File and go to Place. In your exercise files, there's one called redraw icons.png. And just make sure it's a template cuz it's gonna put it on its own layer, fade it out so we can trace it over the top. Click Place, awesome. Okay, so there's my redraw layer. And we're gonna use this thing here called the curvature tool. That looks very close to the pen tool. If the word pen tool is not new to you, you probably know the pencil. Which we're gonna cover in the next video, is man, it's hard to learn. Not impossible, just harder than the curvature tool. It's a new tool, the curvature tool. I love that Adobe Illustrator invented this tool, it's super quick, super easy, I love it. It's like the simplified version of the pen tool. Okay, so give it a click. And what we're gonna do is we're gonna zoom in on this, it's meant to be a pallet, like an artist's pallet paint thing. Zoom in again. And we're gonna start with a circle in the center here. So we could just use the ellipse tool, I know, but we're learning the curvature tool. And for a circle, just so you know, there are four points that make up a circle. And how you use the curvature tool to do it is you click it once at the top, once on the side, once on the bottom, and you can see there, I'm gonna start again. Click once, nothing happens. Click again, and you're like, this is not very curvature tool like. Okay, and it's not until you kind of move the mouse out, I'm not doing anything, it just kind of starts guessing about what you wanna do, which is super cool. Click once at the bottom, click once there, click once more to close it all up, and it's a pretty good circle. I haven't done it perfectly but it's pretty clever. What I'll do as well is I'm going to turn my fill to none and my stroke to black one point. You do that as well, or pick anything. [LAUGH] Just turn the fill off in the middle so we can see through. So drawing circles, easy enough. What we're gonna do now is this outside where there's curves going each way. So where do you know how to collect? We kind of know from the circle here that there kind of should be a point out here, maybe one at the bottom. But all the rest of them are like where do I put this curvature tool? And the answer is it's just where the apexes are, where the middle of a curve is. So you can kind of see there's a curve here and there's another curve going the other way. I'd say that's the middle of this one and kind of there's the middle of this one going that way. So let's start there in this dip. So I'm gonna click once, remember nothing really happens. I'm gonna click the second one at the top here, cuz that feels like the middle, this feels like the middle of this one. We can move them afterwards, don't worry. And again, we get this wierd straight line, and it's not until we kinda move over here do we decide, now don't worry about the curve, the blue line coming out. Don't try and line it up here, just know that, remember our circle before kind of had one over here and there was one down at the bottom? And you can see this curve looks not very good, right. But when I come down to this second one, there's a little bit of faith involved, okay. You learn how the curvature works a little bit, kind of from experience. It's kind of a little bit hard to explain sometimes. But if you put the curves kind of halfway around this curve, a little bit down here, maybe another one there. You can delete and add them later on. Now this curve here, where is the center if it, kind of about there. And then back to the beginning here, and all I do is click once and it completes it all up. Cool? Now the last thing about it is a really fluid line. Okay, a couple of things that you might run into trouble with is you might find it a little bit tough using the smart guides. I've turned mine off, I cheated at the beginning, okay. I should have said at the beginning, but go to View and I've turned smart guides off by clicking the little tick and it just turns off. And make sure you turn it on later on cuz it's quite helpful. I'll try and remind you. But sometimes, like I said at the beginning, the smart guides can just be more hassle than they're worth. All right, what else can we do with this curvature tool? Say you kinda like it and you're like, almost there, this one's a little bit wrong. So I'm still using my curvature tool, I can just click, hold, and drag it around, okay. Cuz I told you one needs to be there and one needs to be there. But when you are doing it on you're going to be like, I don't know where these go, you're just going to click all over the place. So what you can do is fix them up, just throw them in, don't worry, get them in roughly where they need to go, even if it looks paired, okay. You can grab these guys, click on them, it kind of goes blue, and I can click and drag them just how I want. You need to be a bit further up there, and maybe you around here a bit more, and maybe you look better down here. You can see I'm kind of trying to fix it by moving these guys around. Cool, what else can you do? Maybe you've not got enough, okay. Say you didn't put one over here, okay, and it's just and you just can't do it. You can move this one around, and you can move this one down. There's just not enough control, right. So I need another one to help me out. So to add another one, all you do is use the same tool, and just you can kinda see the icon changes from this. See the little plus appears? So asterisk plus, okay, the little plus button just says I'm gonna add a point, and then it'll give you a little bit more control. And a kind of tip I guess, the pro tip is, it will be most smooth with the least amount of these little dots. They're called anchor points, okay, the fewer of these you can have, the nicer the curve will be. So you might get tempted just to put in loads of these because then you get to do this really fine adjustment. Okay, and it doesn't matter how good you are. I'm pretty good, okay, but if I have lots of anchor points, okay, it can look kind of good. But then if I click off and I'll turn off my trace layer, can you see it's just a little wobbly by the bottom? It's not bad, okay, but it's just sort of, it's not super smooth like up here. Look how good that is, and look how little bit wobbly that is. Okay, delete points, use the same tool. So curvature tool, give them a click, and all you do is hit delete on your keyboard. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, and goodbye. [LAUGH] All right, now there will be a point where this curvature is good but it's hiding some of the nitty gritty detail, okay. So if there is times when you just need a little bit more control, what you can do is you can ditch the curvature tool once you've got it all in there, and start using this guy here. Remember the black selection tool, okay, the black arrow? That's for moving this thing around, kind of the whole thing physically. The white arrow, remember, is moving little parts within this object around, okay. So I can use my white arrow, click on any of these anchor points, and say it's this one here that I wanna fix. I can physically move them like I did on the curvature tool, but also what I can do, I'm gonna zoom in a bit, is I've got these two little guys here, they're always there. The curvature tool hides them just to make the tool I guess a little easier for people that are new. But these guys can be quite handy. So this is considered what is an anchor point, okay. So this is the line has to run through him. Doesn't matter, has to go through it. These guys influence how that line kind of gets to it. So they're kind of like influencing the line or gravity, they're kind of trying to pull it towards them, they're like little moons. So watch this, if I grab it and drag it, can you see it's influencing the line. It's not like 100% moving it to follow it, but it's kind of dragging it out, okay. And you can do a couple things is you can drag it in nice and tight, so both sides. You can see with the handles quite close to the anchor point, it's quite an acute curve, okay. Acute, I'm not sure if that's the right word [LAUGH] but kind of a pointy curve, okay. And the further they are out, if I drag them right out, can you see they make it quite flat through that anchor point. So there's a bit of playing around and getting used to these guys. Click, hold, and drag, and don't be afraid to do this. Wiggle, wiggle, wiggle, and just kind of work out what it does. And kind of I'm looking for this side a little bit, and then this guy over here. And what you'll find with, it's kind of a see-saw, okay, where I fix this side, I get this looking nice. And then I've wrecked that side, and you're like, no. Fix that side, and I've wrecked that side. And what you'll find is little by little you've kind of worked them in until they both kind of sit happily. And you can also see this guy is influencing the line as it comes through this anchor point, so we might play around with him as well. So this white arrow gives us really fine adjustment. It's a bit finicky, but sometimes you need finickiness to get it all nice and pretty. All right, so that's doing a big curve, let's do corners. Okay, so the curvature tool. Okay, if I just click once, click once, you end up with kind of a weird looking, it's meant to be a funnel. Okay, this funnel here obviously is not working good with the curvature tool. So you can use the curvature tool to do straight lines. So I'm gonna just hit delete, and just delete everything there. So to do a corner, so clicking once gives you a curve, right. So what you do is you double click to get a corner. So I know this is a corner, double-click. That's a corner, double-click, double-click, double-click. You get the idea, right? So doing straight lines is easy, just got to remember to double-click. Now when you go back to the beginning, this is gonna be weird. Watch, double-click. Whoa, what happened? It's a quirk, okay. For undo, undo again. So what's happening is, when I get back to the beginning, it already knows it's a corner cuz we told it at the beginning. We double-clicked and said, you're a corner. So when I get back to here, I don't have to need to do anything, okay, just click it once and it kinda just accepts whatever I originally put it there. If I double click it, what it's saying is I'm completing it and then trying to convert it into a curve, okay. So it's a bit weird. All you need to know is when you get round to the beginning, there's my curvature tool, you wanna join a back up, you don't have to do anything, just click once. Curve, corner, just kinda finish it up by clicking it once. If you do end up doing this, [SOUND] [LAUGH] okay, all you need to do is double-click it again and it converts it from curve to corner, curve to corner, okay. So you liked all this but you want these to be curves, double-click, double-click. And we have [LAUGH] kind of a weird funnel. So let's do this example now. This is a bit of both, curves and corners. So what you've gotta do is, what I find the easiest for new students is before you click is to ask yourself, is this a corner or curve? Okay, this is a corner, clearly, okay, some sorta sharp corner. So and remember, corners are double-clicks, okay, sharp edges. Remember clicking once gives you lovely curves, and double-clicking gives you a corner. So that's what we're gonna do. This one here, double-click. Now this big arc along here, where is about halfway? I feel like that's about halfway, click once for a curve. Is this a corner or a curve? It's a curve, so just click once. Over here, corner or a curve? It's a curve. It's a curve. Back to here. Remember, it doesn't matter what you decide. You've already called this a corner, so I just click it once. If you accidentally get it like this, what do we do? Double-click it again and it goes back to being a corner. Again, if we haven't got it quite right, we can just drag these around. We can add new points by just clicking anywhere. And we can delete them just by hitting the Delete key on our keyboard. Same again here. I could copy, paste it, reflect it, but that's not what we're doing, we're learning the curvature tool. So this curve here, I'm gonna click once cuz it's a curve, right. Is this a curve? Yeah, it's a curve. Yeah, it's a curve. I'm guessing because I'm like, where do these curves go? I can adjust it later on, don't worry. This one here is it a corner or a curve? It's a corner. So what was it? Double-click. Down here, curve. Back to the beginning, just click it once. It's a bit ugly, but we can fix it. Drag it around, drag it around, add remove. And if I want to kind of finesse it a bit more, remember the white arrow. Click on this fellow, move him around, start adjusting the handles, okay, and get a bit more finer control. All right, let's look at this fellow here. Pretty easy, except I wanted to have something like this cuz I wanted to show you a straight line that goes into a curve. That's the kind of last thing we need to acknowledge or work out how to do. So let's do the circle at the beginning. So curvature tool, and just so you know or just so you remember, it's one in every kind of corner, north, south, east, west. Even though I got that pretty off, it's still a pretty good circle. Now I wanna draw this bottom part, and this is gonna lead me to one issue you're gonna run into. Is I wanna start this line here so I'm gonna click there, then I'm gonna double-click there, and it didn't connect up, why? I'm gonna undue and undue. It's cuz in my head I'm like, yeah, I wanna start a line there and draw it down. But what the computer's seeing is, can you see this little plus button? Add an anchor point there. And then down here it says, well you're nowhere near that line so you probably wanna start another line, and you kinda go off. So you need to kind of acknowledge or a least tell Illustrator that we don't want to work with this. And the easiest way is with it selected, it's currently selected, if it's not click it with the black arrow, and just go up to Object and lock it. Can you see this one that says Object Lock Selection? And it just temporary locks it, okay, I can't drag it or move it. It's the same as we did earlier on, remember our layers panel? We put things on its own layer and then locked it. It's just like a smaller version of that. Cuz in this case I don't really want its own special layer for a circle, I just want to temporarily do it. And when you want it to unlock it, you go to Object, and there's one that says Unlock All. Everything that's locked on the page comes back. So we're gonna lock it again. Go to my curvature tool, and this is a straight line so double-click, double-click, and this is the bit I wanted to show you. So if I click once for a curve here and I double-click for a corner, I end up with that. [LAUGH] It's not what I want. So kind of cool. But so what I want to do is there's a straight line here and it kind of finishes about there, okay, then the curve starts. So I want this to be straight, okay, so we double-click. Then it's a curve, click once, double-click for a straight line, double-click for a straight line, and that's how get those kind of, there's a long part with a curve. It needs to have a little bit of, a few extra anchor points then maybe you thought, okay. So these two lines are double-clicks. So there's a straight line, and then there's this guy in the middle for a curve. Double-click, double-click, click once, double-click, click once. And I'll have to, [LAUGH] don't click once, it's a corner, okay. And up here I'm gonna double-click cuz I want it to be a straight line. It wasn't a straight line. How do I go back and fix it? So with same tool, just double-click it. Why didn't I overlap them? Okay, it's because that I want to color them in or delete this chunk, and I want it to but up really closely to this line. And we're gonna use the shape builder tool, kind of doubling down on our tools that we've already learned. Okay, now we're at a point where this thing won't let go, I'm like, I'm finished, let go. Okay, and there's two things you can do. You hit Escape on your keyboard, so look down, it's the top left of your keyboard, okay. Escape is the just let go, get off there, okay. Now we can go start working on this thing. Or what you could do is you could just say I'm gonna go back to there and join it up, and then it lets go cuz it's completed the whole path. And it doesn't really matter cuz we're gonna delete all of that stuff with the shape builder tool anyway. So next thing we're going to do, it's already selected. Object, Lock, Selection, and we're going to work on this part. So double-click for a straight line, or actually, it's kind of, yeah, double-click for a corner up here. I'm gonna click once for a curve. Double-click, double-click to get the straight lines. Okay, I've clicked once, double-click, and then I'm gonna kind overlap this thing. Now this is probably not the best example because you're like, man, it's so symmetrical. Why isn't he using the rounded corners thing? And I probably would. But again, we're practicing the curvature tool, so you can do lots of things with it. So I'm just gonna delete it, and this what I would be doing. I'd grab the rectangle tool, just drag it out. And then I'd grab my black arrow, actually the white arrow, remember, click this guy, hold Shift, grab the second guy and just drag him in. [LAUGH] But that's cheating. It's the right way, but it's cheating. Now what I wanna do is I wanna select it all and use the shape builder tool to delete the chunks I don't need, like this bit and that bit that overlaps. But I can't select this, why not? You remember, okay, we need to go to Unlock All. Okay, so that's why that lock is quite cool, it's temporary, you don't have to go and bother making layers. It's just quick and easy. We've unlocked them, we've selected them all with our black arrow, and we're gonna go into our shape builder tool, my favorite tool, and we're gonna delete stuff. So what do we do? We hold down the Option key on a Mac, Alt key on a PC. And I'll say, get rid of that line, let's get rid of that line, and life is good my friends. All right, so what do we do now? There's these two guys at the bottom here, and this is your homework, okay. There are a range of straights and corners, okay. And there's gonna be bits that you need to lock and join up. The only thing you're not allowed to do, is you're not allowed to use shapes. You're not allowed to use ellipses and rectangles, just cuz we're practicing the tool. And what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to draw these and color them. I'd like you to color all of these people, okay. And these guys are gonna be super easy to color. There's gonna be probably some arranging to do to practice. This one here is gonna need your special trick where we fill cuz these are actually separate shapes, watch. Can you see there's no joiner here. So what we need to do is select them all and use the shape builder tool that we used in a previous tutorial to color them. Okay, so fill, color, just in case you forgot. Cool, so draw these guys, color them in, and I'd love to see them. Remember on Twitter we are danlovesadobe, and also make sure you tag TutsPlusDesign, and on Instagram I am bringyourownlaptop. Love to see your drawing, I'll mark your homework, make sure you've colored them as well. And if it goes horribly wrong, you can mention that in your post as well, and I'll jump in and give you a hand. All right, my friends, that is the curvature tool. In the next video we're gonna look at his best friend, the paint tool. I'll see you then, after your homework. Welcome back everyone. This video is all about the pen tool. We're gonna draw these icons. You might be thinking hey, these are the same icons from the curvature tool. They are. We're gonna compare the curvature tool with the pen tool because really as an Illustrator user you're probably gonna need both. So let's jump in now and figure out the pros and cons for the pen tool. All right to get started, we're gonna redraw the same things. Just to kind of see clearly the differences between the curvature tool and the pen tool. Save some time if you go to file open, in your exercise files there's one called pen tool.ai. I've just kind of imported that graphic already for us, ready to go. And the reason we have the curvaturey tool and the pen tool. Is the paint tool is kind of a really kinda staple for pretty much all graphic design programs and 3D and drawing, lots of things use the pen tool. So once you've learned it in Illustrator, you can use it in the same tool and works the same way in Photoshop, in InDesign, Sketch Up, 3D Studio Max, After Effects. Lots of different programs you use the pen tool. The curvature tool is new and just a bit easier. But really you need to know both. The slightly harder version, or more controlled version of the pen tool, and the curvature tool, which is just a bit easier. So, we're gonna use the pen tool. First thing to note is if you got Caps Lock on your keyboard. Okay, so just look down on your keyboard. You can turn Caps Lock to make your type upper case and lowercase. By clicking it on and off. It changes it from this pen tool to the cross hairs. I'm gonna show you that because you might have it on and you may like, wow, freaking out. Why does mine not look like Dan's? So just tap it on and off, you can decide, it doesn't change it at all, it's just a different way of working. We're gonna stay with the little fountain pen looking thing, okay. And we'll start with the funnel here because it's kind of the opposite of the curvature tool. The pen tool draws by default straight lines. So if I clicked once maybe with the curvature tool it gave us a curve. If I clicked once with the pen tool once, once, it just gives us corners. So corners are awesome with the pen tool. Just keep clicking, and come back to the beginning and click once. Let's remove the fill, so I'm gonna have a fill of none, and a stroke of black, and let's get back to this guy. So how do we do curves, then? Okay, so it's slightly different. Let's pick a curve. Let's pick, say, this curve here. Yep, and you click, hold your mouse down, and drag. And then you get this random thing. Well, we've seen it before, right? We saw it with the curvature tool, it gives us the fine adjustment. And I guess that's why the pen tool is the way it is. It gives us fine adjustment straight out of the bat where the curvature tool does a bit of thinking for us. So what we do is click it, and where do we drag it? You drag it whichever way you want the line to drawing. So I'm gonna keep drawing down this way, so I'm gonna drag it down here. And how far do I draw it? This comes with experience, so it's kind of hard to kind of guess this first one. So we're just gonna drag it out this far. Okay, and nothing really happens right. You're like it's not until you let go and you kind of move the mouse out and you're like okay, that's what it's doing. Remember that anchor point, and these are the handles that kind of influence that line. Now same point before kinda halfway through a curve, kinda breaking this into two, because I can try and do it with one, but there’s just not enough control with just one anchor point. Kinda works. So what I’m gonna do is I’m gonna do one there, one there, and maybe one over there. So clicking, dragging, okay and then you wanna try and see I can get real fine control by just kinda dragging it around. So give it a wiggle cuz sometimes this way, sometimes that way. It's a little hard to I guess to get your hit around when you're first using it. So don't be afraid to move this in and out. Up and around to see if we can get the curve. Awesome, okay, where's my other curve gonna be? Remember, we can adjust it afterwards. By using the white arrow, so don't be to worried about your first go at it. Click. Okay and clicking once like I did there it's gonna give me a corner so that's not what I want, right? So I'm gonna undo, remember clicking, holding, and dragging following the line around. Cool, you're gonna get to a point here where you're like actually I just wanna click once because that curve is good. But we really wanna corner, right, cuz if I do this and then try and do this, we get this sharp corner. So I get to here, click and drag out, and you can see this destroying the line, you're like, man, I really wanted it to, well, it was looking good. Don't worry, we put in these first anchor points and handles only so that we can adjust them afterwards. So I'm gonna drag it like this way, drag it up this way, drag it up this way. When we get back to the beginning what we need to do to finish this thing is We don't just want to click once, like we did the curves, so we decide, is it a corner? Okay, if we want it to be a corner we click once, it gives it kind of a sharp into it. But if you want it to be curved, you click hold and dragged it,you kind of see i dragged it out and you get this kinda little handle popping out. It's a little bit kinda strange, it takes a little bit of practice. Now, mine looks okay, okay. Yours might look really bad. That's totally okay and what we can do is we can look to fix it. So let's grab the direct selection tool, maybe the White Arrow. It allows us to do some fine detail adjustments. This is the biggest, ugliest thing. Now there's this curve here. Like it did with the curvature tool, there's these two handles kind of affecting this line. This one's kind of okay, it's this massive guy here. He's kind of doing battle with this poor little guy. Okay, so we're gonna say, you be a bit smaller and be less influential on that line. And I'm happy with that. I'm happy enough with this. Here we go, okay. So you can do this fine, kinda see-saw adjustment. You can move them around, just like we did with the curvature tool. All right, so here we go. Now, I'm really messing around with it. It's looking pretty good. So a couple of things with the pen tool. Often it can be easier to turn off View  Smart Guides, mine are turned off. And let's look at how to add, remove, and convert those corners, okay. So let's say this one here is accidentally a corner. With the pen tool, it has its kind of special own tool called the Anchor Point Tool, okay, this will convert anchor points. Okay, so you click and hold down the pen tool in this guy here. So, click it once will turn it into a corner, click and drag out from the anchor point, will turn it into a curve. Click once, you're a corner; click and drag, you're a curve. What people tend to do is to drag this out, they’re not sure which way to drag it and they’ll try and do something like this. They’re like, how’s this? And you kinda see what I’m doing, right, it’s kind of looping back on itself. So if you’re like man, that’s doing some weird spaghetti stuff, it’s probably on the wrong side. All right, let’s move on to doing the circle. Yes, we should probably just use the ellipse tool but I’m gonna use the pen tool to show you how it works. So drawing a circle. We know that it kind of needs to be in all four corners. Click and drag out, that's the first one, it's the hard one. You're like it's nothing, cuz if I just start with the clicking once here, and then started dragging out, it's gonna work kind of, untill I get back around to the beginning. Cuz I see to that to be a corner point, right? And you end up with that. So, the very first one on faith, I'm gonna drag it out to kinda create some sort of curve. Okay, I'm gonna click and drag you out. I'm gonna click and drag you out. I'm gonna click and drag you out. Wrong way, that way. Spaghetti, good way. And back to the beginning, I'm gonna click and drag out. So, my circle? Terrible, terrible circle. I guess I wanna show you this cuz I wanna show you how to get nice symmetrical looking things. So I'll show you a real circle. So a circle. The ellipse tool. If I draw this out there's nothing different between, well other then that one's beautiful and that one's ugly, this one has the same sort of construction. Watch this. Can I see? I got my white arrow clinging on the ellipse. And you can just see it's got anchor points at all corners but they're exact. And can you see, this is the big thing, can you see these anchor points completely across from each other and they run parallel. They're the same length. You can see my ones, particularly the top one. These are reasonably across from each other, but you can see that one points that way. That one points that way. Gonna zoom in. So, to get this to be symmetrical, we need this top one to be nice and flat. It's not gonna be perfect, just so you know. But this is how to get kind of balanced lines or nice looking curves, if you're like man, I can never get it right. It's probably because you need these ones to be somewhat symmetrical. Better, it's getting better. You see they need to be the same length as well. See this one's short, this one's tall, so you back up a little bit, buddy. You probably need to back up a little bit as well. And you can start to see it's getting better. [LAUGH] Okay, I just want you to, I guess, get the understanding of how these guys all interact together, that's there's kinda bit of a balance thing. Kinda the same length, kinda the same angles, will give you a nicer-looking. That's better, right, better. All right, let's go and look at doing, we've done the funnel. Let's look at doing our last one together, which is this guy, a mixture of both. So pen tool, what am I doing? It's a corner, so I click once. Big curve, click and drag right here somewhere. Click and drag. Click and drag. Man, but don't worry, I need a corner there but I need to back him up. Okay? But I can do that once I'm finished. Click and drag, back to the beginning, click once. Grab my wire, drag it out. And just you know like the first 20 things you're gonna draw, you'll slowly gonna get better and better as you get accustomed to kind of this how life works with the pen tool. And if you are somebody who dabbles and does the pen tool once every six months, you're probably not gonna get hugely experience with it. So when you're gonna, I don't know, I've had jobs where I've had to redraw people's faces with lines in it. A job like that gives you loads of experience. With the pen tool and its quirks and you start getting good at it, like most things, it's all about just kind of getting in and using it for quite a bit. All right, the next thing we'll look at is grab the pen tool and if you wanna add, say we needed some more control. So this one here I'm gonna, see the icon changes from the asterisk to little plus, I'll add another one. If you wanna get rid of one, all you need to do, you don't need to do anything, you just hover above it, can you see this anchor point here? Goes from over here, it's gonna add, see the little plus? But here, it's gonna say minus, let's click on, I'm gonna add it back in. Grab my wire, drag it back over here. And that my friends is the pen tool. All right, is there any other tips, I wanna give you one more. And if you click once and you start dragging, you're like, actually I've messed this up, and you're like, go, stop doing it, okay. You can just hit the Esc key on the keyboard just kinda disconnects it and you can either go edit undo. Or just hit the delete key twice, once, twice, kind of start again. Remember Caps Lock changes it from this cross hairs and it doesn't matter, it works the same way. Just I guess a little bit more precise with the cross hairs. I don't know why I just got use to using it with the little fountain pen so I use it by just tapping the Caps Lock. And one more tip is, if you do kind of, somehow, magically let go of this thing. You're like no, I've got a line, I wanna continue it, cuz I've maybe done some beautiful work, I don't wanna have to restart. What you can do is, can you see the icon? The little asterisk means I'm gonna start a new line. Watch this, when it goes to the little forward slash. That means I'm gonna, hey, connect to where I was. So now, kinda connecting up to where I was before. So starting a line again, just gotta give it a click. And that, my friends, is a terrible flame. You are gonna spend a little bit more time, and get it looking great. I want you to then work on this, work on all of these guys. And what I'd love to see is both your curvature tool and your pen tool exercises side-by-side. Okay, so color them in, and I'd like you to, I guess, send me your side-by-sides, so that we can kinda see which one kinda came out the best. And also, drop a comment and just say, just, I found the pen tool just so much easier, having the control. Or, man, I'm gonna use the curvature tool. So just let me know the pros and cons. What you find good, what you find bad. Remember on Twitter it's TutzPlusDesign and also make sure you tag me personally. I'm DanLovesAdobe and on Instagram I am BringYourOwnLaptop. All right friends, I'll see you after you've done your homework. I'll be checking and we'll get started with the pencil tool. See you in that video next Welcome back, this video we are going to be looking at the pencil tool. How to make it a little bit easier to draw with so it makes you look good. Once we've done our drawings we're gonna add things like this where we kind of have this nice kind of profiled stroke on it. Or, look at doing arrow heads, dotted lines, dash lines in this kind of artistic hand drawn over the top of a real image project. Let's jump in now and get started. All right, to get started I've just created a blank page, create it any size you like. I'm using US letter landscape. I'm gonna bring in an image, so let's go to file, let's go to place. And in your Exercise Files, we're looking for one called Pencil Tool 01. Now this image comes from Unsplash. It's a really cool site that you can use for free commercial use images. Okay, so it's Unsplash. Thank you for the use of this image. And we're not gonna use the template in this case. Cuz what happens with the template is that it fades it out, and I don't want that for this case. I just wanna bring it in, and we'll lock it. So let's click Place. Now when you're bringing in an image if you click once it's gonna bring it in at full size. I'll do it, you don't, you wait there watch this. Click once whoa that's a big image I'm gonna zoom out way bigger than my page. So what I'm gonna do is before I place it I'm gonna zoom back in and I'm gonna show you a different way of placing. So File Place. And it's easier just to click hold and drag, okay. And you can just tell it what size that you want it to be. Go and, we could put it on it's own layer and lock it, or what was the trick we used before? Object Lock Selection. All right, so let's get going with the pencil tool. It's this one here, looks like a pencil. Underneath the brush tool. And you wouldn't see it because it's hiding under the shaper tool. So the shaper tool is like the first tool. Click and hold it down, and grab the pencil tool. I'm gonna zoom in. What I'm gonna do before I start drawing is, I'm gonna say I would like no fill. Okay, so red line, and the stroke I'll gonna use is white. Now, by default the pencil tool's a little weird. The first thing is that I'll gonna draw those wings that you saw at the beginning. So, if I draw my like little wings. Okay, and I'll draw my other little wing, and I'll draw my other little wing. You can you see there like deleted the first one to replace the second one. That's just one of the defaults, it means if you draw kind of a line close to the one you drew before, it tries to redraw it. I have never find that useful. Let's join them all up. It's a little weird so to turn that setting off, I'm going to delete all that, is double click the tool. Double clicking the tool opens up these settings for it and this case I wanna say this one, keep selected. I always turn it off and I never turn it back on. You might find a good use for it, but I don't. Now, when I draw stuff, okay, it is not going to keep it selected which means it's not gonna try and redraw it. Now, the other trouble is is that my drawing looks terrible, okay. So if you're not using, say, a Wacom stylus Even if you are, okay. I'm just using my regular mouse. What you can do just to make yourself look a bit better, same options, double click the pencil tool and see where it says fidelity, you can crank up the smoothing. So down ready low, means it's gonna follow your mouse perfectly. But that's not what I want, I want it to kind of not be perfectly smooth. Maybe just about there. Make me look better, Illustrator. So, I'm gonna draw this, and you can see. Look how good those lines are, so much nicer. I want a different kind of one, and want this kinda like wing thing going on. You can see those curves, I'm just clicking and dragging pretty badly, I don't like that one. I can delete them by clicking the black arrow, hit delete on my keyboard, back to my pencil tool. Don't worry about it, Dan. [LAUGH] Don't worry about it, keep drawing. They look kind of cool. Anyway, kind of a wing. Still drawing. All right, let's look at strokes in a little bit more detail. I promised earlier on we would. So I've drawn these with a pencil tool. They are considered a stroke, okay. And the stroke at the moment is a white line and it has these kind of flat ends, okay. Do you remember what those are called? The funny word, it's called the black arrow. Let's select them all. And let's change this stroke. so remember we can increase the stroke, that's fine. And who remembers where we get in to change the capping at the end to make that kind of a bubble end? Remember, click on the work stroke, there it is there. Okay and we can pick our rounded caps or the projecting cap, [LAUGH] okay? The other thing we're gonna look at is the cornering? Can you see here it's got this nice, I want this angle and I like it, but you can change that kinda corner to be rounded as well to match the rest of it. Can you see if you want that kind of roundness to continue? I'll zoom in a little bit so you can see it a bit better. You're watching for this guy, it's the only corner that I've got, okay? But by default it's a nice, sharp corner, rounded, or you can mitre the end, or bevel it. Either one you want, okay? And let's say I don't want this kind of, because it's the same stroke all the way along. What we're gonna look at is this thing called profile. So in stroke here, all of these guys selected, go to profile and there's a bunch of them in here that kinda look nice. Watch this, if I click this first one down, you can see what it's done, click off, cool? Okay, it just gives it more of a painterly stroke. Okay, I haven't experimented with all of these, okay, there's different kinds of ones in here. Look at that, it looks good. You're thinking tribal tattoo, right. That would have been handy when that was super popular. But anyway, this is all kind of cool, I like it. I might select it. And increase it up a little bit to give it a bit more of a fuller little wing name. All right and zoom out. Next up with this kind of pencil drawing is we'll look at arrow heads. So I'm gonna grab my pencil tool again and I'm gonna have some lines that come off the front of this for no reason. I try to put them all into this class to, I don't know, it's a design element. I want arrows kind of racing forward. Look how good this shoe is. Black arrow, select them, and then the stroke here you probably saw it before, this one called arrowheads. So I'm gonna zoom in a little bit on my arrows. Okay, click on stroke, cuz the arrowheads will depend on which end you stick it, depending on which way you drew it. So if I do this end, can you see, that's the wrong side, so I'm gonna go back to none at the top. And the second option, I'm gonna pick one of the arrowheads. And luckily there's all sorts of different kinds of arrows depending on what you consider an arrow, what you want to do as an arrow. There's lots, look at it all. [NOISE] Perfect. Okay, what you might find though is some of these arrows, if I click on this arrow and say you wanna thicken up the line, the arrowheads get unproportionaly bigger. You see the line just come up a couple of steps, but these arrowheads get huge. So nicely in the new version of Illustrator, they've change, can you see the scale of these two arrowheads? Okay, so I can lower this down. Okay, let's say I want it to be maybe 50% of what it was. I find getting closer to a, I don't know, it feels more like a proper ratio to me. Let's zoom out. So, arrowheads, the profile. We've got our pencil tool doing nice, smooth stuff. Let's look at dashed lines. So, I'm gonna draw another line around the edge here likeit's been cut out. That didn't go well. Also didn't go well. [LAUGH] I'm gonna leave it there. So, here's my lovely line that I wanna make dashed. So I'm gonna go by black arrow, give them a select and I'm gonna say dot and there it is there, dashed. So dashed is easy, couple of things you might wanna play around with is the weight and the capping, okay. Butt caps are just a really solid end, okay more kinda like traditional, traditional? Yeah traditional dotted lines, or the rounded ones. Yeah, nice round ends. I'm gonna use the butt cap and I'm gonna look down here. So if I just put in this measurement here, this 12 points. It's gonna go a 12-point line with a 12-point gap. 12-point line. It just assumes this is what you mean. What you can do is you can say, I want a 12-point line but a really skinny gap. So I can say I wanna make it 2 points, okay? And I'm gonna click in here. You can see it's a 12-point line but with a 2-point gap. So you can decide how you want it to be. You might decide, now I want a 5 dash with a really big gap of 20. You can create your own kinda dash lines. All right, let's go to the next one, let's look at dotted lines. Dash lines are super easy, dotted lines for some reason are super complicated. Well, they're not, you're just kinda have to like bookmark this video and come back to it every time. I only remember it because I have to teach this stuff. So let's grab our pencil tool, and let's do like a flight path. Imagine these shoes are flying around the world doing great Nike stuff. There we go. So, got this line. It's gonna remember the last thing I've done. So, I'm gonna click on that and go to stroke. And say secure to that dash line. So back to our regular line. So to do a dotted line, you need to turn dash line on. Let's get rid of everything else in here. Back to kinda default. And the way you do it is really weird. The first dash you put in is zero, which doesn't do anything until you click on round caps, it needs to be zero. Then the gap is how ever big you want it to be. I'm gonna do 12. And you can kind of see it how it works. And you can see it's got like these dashes are absolutely zero but if you make those absolutely zero dashes round caps, they make dots, sweet? I'm gonna make the gap a bit smaller so it makes it a bit easier to see. I'm gonna increase the weight, so that my friends, is a really weird way to do dots. So just to recap, stroke needs to have a dash of zero, gap any size, and just make sure your capping is rounded. Al right, so that's a mixture of the pencil tool and the stroke. Arrowheads.stashed and tribal tattoos. Next up is your homework. So in your exercise files, there is this file. It's called Pencil 02. Do the same thing we did in this exercise. Bring it in file place it, lock it and then do your drawing over the top. Now the theme for this one is going to be travel, so think wings and planes and maps and those sorts of things. So practice with your dotted lines, I wanna see a dotted, a dashed and some of the kind of more, I keep calling them tribal. Basically, just those kind of nice profile lines. Remember to adjust your pencil so that it makes your drawing look nice. Add some planes and globes, that type of thing, okay. I want you to draw over the top. Think artistic illustration type thing. And when you're finished make sure that you share with us by Twitter, TutsPlus Design, I'm DanLovesAdobe. And on Instagram, I am BringYourOwnLaptop. Hi there, welcome to this video. It's all about brushes in Illustrator, they turn boring strokes like this into handsome, artistic strokes like these. All right, let's jump in and work out how to use them in Illustrator. All right, to get started, you're gonna practice your skills from other videos, where you are going to create a new document. This one's going to be portrait instead of landscape, and I want you to bring in this image here. File, place it and lock it. Okay, it's called Brushes 01. So practice those tricks. Thank you, Lauren's Green for the image. Now, we could be using our curvature tool or the pencil tool to work with brushes. Any which way you create a line, you can do it with the stroke around the outside of our circle. We're gonna use the pencil tool in this case. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna give my line no fill and a stroke of white, so I can see it against my image. We're going for kind of an angel wing type thing. All right, so it's not, [LAUGH]. It's okay, there we go. So once you've drawn some lines, like me, we're gonna find our brushes. So first up, let's select it over the black arrow, gonna zoom in a little bit for you. I'm gonna go to my Window, and all your brushes are hiding. They're kinda like, remember we did the profile in the last one, where get that nice kinda like tribal design? Brushes are similar to that, but they're a little more artistic. So in the brush libraries here, there's lots in here. I'd say 90% of them are pretty bad. The good ones are hiding in the vector packs, and these two are great, and other nice ones are in artistic. And some of these ones are quite cool. So we're gonna explore a couple of them, and then I'll let you explore all the rest of them in illustrator. So let's go to Window, all the way down the bottom to Brush Libraries. Go to Vector Packs, and let's use Grunge brushes vector pack. That opens up. I'm gonna make it bigger so you can see all of the different brushes in there. And with these guy selected, with my black arrow, all I need to do is click on one. Get ready, giant strokes. Cool though, aye. I love it, turns your kind of really, I guess clip art style lines in to something a lot more kinda hand drawn. Now, one thing by default is that they have kind of like a preset size. So once you've drawn them or applied them like we just have, over here on the stroke, you're gonna have to make them smaller. Now in this drop down, you can go down only so far like 0.05, 0.25 Considered a hair line, that's kind of small enough probably. But say you want to go even smaller you can actually just type it in here so 0.25 it's going to go 0.05 so just typing it over with my keyboard, hit return on my keyboard. And now I've got a really nice thin line. Okay, probably want it to go a little big bigger, so I'm thinking maybe 1.5. Cool? So I'm gonna select them and just go through these different options, you can explore which ones you like the best. Okay, so, I'm just gonna keep clicking them while you watch. There we go, that's nice. So one thing you can do is you can see I drew lots of individual lines. If you end up drawing one long thing, there's nothing wrong with that, but you end up with, say I draw a wing on this side that's just one long piece. There's nothing wrong with except, because it's one long piece and I click on this and I make it, what did we decide, 0.01. 0.05, okay? Can you see, the stroke starts all the way along here, and has to stretch itself all the way along. You end up with this kind of, I don't know, stretched stroke. Whereas this is kind of a similar sort of design, but there's lots of little different things going on, okay? Cuz it's just one stroke, beginning to end, whereas that is trying to stretch itself along this really long line. It's up to you, what you're looking for. Going to delete that one. All right, let's look at one of the other packs. I'm going to close down the grunge pack and I'm going to draw some sort of halo. It's going to be right the first time, ready. [LAUGH] Not even close, that's better. Okay, so betterish. So I've drawn a line above her head. I'm gonna go to Window, and there are lots of other stuff. Remember, so where is it, Brush Libraries, under Vector Packs. Grunge is cool, Hand Drawn is cool, and the other ones that I find are quite nice are ChalkCharcoalPenil and Ink. While the rest are okay, some of them are downright terrible. But let's go to Ink, cuz Ink has a special kind of extirpate at the top here. So let's just look at some of these bottom ones. The cool thing about Ink is that some of them, the Stock Ink Wash, you can see it's kind of transparent, which is kinda cool. Because it means if I draw another one, so if grab the pencil tool again and I draw another one. I'm sure that's, that's back to being the doughnut, but if I make him the same stroke, can you see where they overlap? You start getting this kind of double transparency. Let's zoom in a little further. You can see where they overlap. They kind of double up and make a fuller color. You get what I mean, rIght? Now there are these options at the top here. So I'll show you how they work. They work slightly differently. So I grab my pencil tool and I draw a smiley face [LAUGH]. Okay, it looks exactly that. Let's draw a crown. That's my crown. Okay with it selected, I go these look cool, weird stuff happens. You're like, that's not what I was expecting. Okay, so often these ones get used just by themselves. I'm gonna delete my wonderful crown, so instead of applying them to a stroke you can just drag them out. So I'll say this one here, just drag it out, don't need a stroke. Just they're kind of like single use things. Just drag them out and they just kind of spot on. You can ungroup them. They're in a big group. Say you like all this, but you don't want this guy. You can go object ungroup. You have to ungroup quite a bit. There's like a zillion groups in this thing. So I've ungrouped it. Still grouped. On groups, this shortcut there,- + Shift + Cmd + G on a Mac. It'll be Shift + Ctrl + G on a PC. I'm gonna keep smashing away on a keyboard because you have to ungroup it so many times. Now they're all ungrouped, now I can maybe delete that line. And maybe rotate that one to get a different size, copy and paste it, give it a mean. So these guys just get dragged out, these get applied to strokes. All right, so we've done the angel in this one. I want you for your homework to work on Brush 02. Okay, so we've worked on Brush 01, this is the angelic heavenly version. I want you to work and do something kind of evil with Brushes 02. You ready for it? [LAUGH] This guy. [LAUGH] All right, I'm sure that you, it's [INAUDIBLE] without laughing [LAUGH]. I love this guy. I love dogs. I love pugs. This guy is the best in a little jacket. But I want you to, I'm thinking kind of devil horns, pitchfork type thing, the opposite of what we had here. I want you to do it. It's your exercise. You don't have to make him evil. You can make him happy. Now I don't know if it's just me or that, yeah. I found this guy, thank you Charles, [LAUGH] for dressing your pug up and sharing the photo on Unsplash. But this is your class exercise. Practice the drawing. [INAUDIBLE] Let him go. So I can stop laughing and I want you to go through and practice using some of your tools, Pencil Tool, use the Grunge, try some of the other ones and I would love for you to share it with me. This would be a perfect one for you Instagram, so remember on Instagram I am BringYourOwnLaptop on Twitter we are TutsPlusDesign, and personally I am DanlovesAdobe. I love to see what you do with your pug. And I will see you in the very next video. After you've done your pug homework, and we'll start looking at color in Illustrator. Hi there, this video is all about color. We're gonna look at your traditional RGB. We're also gonna look at something called HSB. Don't worry, it's really useful. What's really useful is this Adobe Color Themes, so we get to explore colors that maybe we wouldn't naturally pick, just to help express our lovely logo in a few different color options. All right, let's get started. First thing is let's go to File, let's go to Open, and in your Exercise Files there's one called Color. Open him up. Okay, so you can use your version of the M from the previous exercise, or you can just use this one here, it doesn't matter. We've kind of looked at color a little bit, but let's get into the nitty-gritty. So first up, in your Properties panel, make sure, you don't have to, but just so you know, I've turned back my Smart Guides on, cuz it's gonna be handy for the rest of this course. Turn the little ticks on. So when working with color, let's say I wanna change this color from black and white. I'm gonna pick a fill color. We've got our premade swatches, these are the ones that Illustrator give us by default. Then there's this option, the Color Mixer, which allows us to kind of pick colors from down in the bottom here, or type in, say, brand-specific colors. Okay, say you know the RGB values for your brand, you can type them in there. You might also have this number, that's another way of describing RGB colors. You might have that somewhere in some sort of corporate spec manual, and you can just type it in. If in here yours is CMYK, it doesn't really matter which color field you're using. But if you do want to switch it, you can tell I'm at RGB, it says it on the top there, and I can change it by going to File, and down here to Document Color Mode, and go into CMYK. Or switch it to RGB, up to you. Okay, let's say this random color that I ended up with, I like, but I wanna make a darker version for it, okay? So I'm going to say, I like you, but I want a slightly darker version of it, okay? So I like it just a bit darker. But making it a little bit darker's quite tough. You need to slide these RGB sliders down and up equal distances, so it's a little bit hard just to lighten and darken a color. So I'll show you a cool little trick. I don't use RGB. I often switch it to, do you see this little palette option here, HSB. And you're like, man, another one. [LAUGH] CMYK, RGB. Don't worry, HSB and RGB are the same thing. It's just a different way to describe the color. This shows you the mixture of red, green, and blue. This just shows you the hue, saturation, and brightness. And it doesn't matter if you're pro or entry-level, I find it's easier just to grab this and just go, let's change the hue, okay? Or change the saturation, how light it is, how kind of full-on it is. And then this slider, the brightness, okay? Fully bright, and you can just darken it up. So, yeah, pick a color, I'm gonna pick this color. I want it to be a little darker. And I wanna use it again, so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna switch to my swatches. Remember, swatches are kinda pre-made colors. I can make my own, though. So I've got that selected, I'm gonna click on this, New Swatch. I can give it a name. This one's gonna be called my M, M Pink. And you click OK. So now I can go to you, my friend. You are going to be that cool new swatch called, there he is there, M Pink. But I'd like to go to my Color Mixer, which is currently set to HSB, and I'm gonna just make it a bit darker. Same with you, I'm gonna click on you, you're gonna be that same pink color. What am I clicking on? I'll go with him, he's going to be that pink color. If he's not there you can go to your swatches. There he is there, okay. And I'm going to say, actually, you're even darker again. And this one's the darkest version of them all. Yep, yep, yep. Dark, dark, dark, dark. Cool, so I guess that's just a helpful tip, using HSB. It doesn't change the, there's still red, green, and blue, just a different way of looking at it. All right, so that's one color option, the pink color option for the logo. Let's duplicate it, copy and paste it. I'm gonna have another version and I'll line them up. That's why Smart Guides are back on. It's clever, see that? Ha, straight across. Let's look at, so color, right? I get stuck doing the same colors all the time. I quite like these pinky, peachy, fiery red pinks. And I use kind of a teal green pretty much everything [LAUGH] through my documents. So to kinda bust out of the same colors that I use every day. Okay, if you go to Window there's a cool little trick under Color Themes. So Window Color Themes. You need to be logged into your Creative Cloud account, I'm pretty sure. And you need to have patience, especially when your Internet's real slow, like mine. This little thing loads up, and what you want to do is jump straight to Explore. Skip Create, we want to go to Explore. Cool, so in here, I've got the most popular colors that are being used in something called Adobe Color. It's an online Web thing where people can upload their colors and vote on them. It's pretty cool, it's pretty color-nerdy. What the result is, I can say, I wanna see the most popular of all time, or all of this week, or all month, and it's just really cool to see nothing other than just cool colors I could use. It's just really handy to bust out of, say, your, I don't know, the same colors you use every week. So I kinda like this one here. So the best way to use it is to click on it and say Add to My Swatches. You can close this down or leave it up. But now I can say, you, go to here, go to my little swatches one, pre-made, and there's that little group there. Cool? So I'm gonna say you are gonna be used there. That's gonna be my darkest color, so I'm gonna go to Fill, I'm gonna use that. Use you there. And you are going to be this color. Is that a good colorway? I don't think so. I think I messed that up somehow. That's all right. That's why we got these options and we can [LAUGH] play around with them. I'm gonna do another one, so we're gonna duplicate him. Sneaky trick, ooh, I showed you a sneaky trick. So instead of copying and pasting, I drag with my black arrow, while I'm dragging, hold down the Option key on a Mac, Alt key on a PC, and that will drag out our duplicate. So instead of copying and pasting, just drag it, hold down the Option key, and you get a duplicate. All right, and so this guy here, I'm gonna do one more set of colors. I'm gonna speed through it. Okay, so I've picked a color there. And I also remembered to show you, [LAUGH] I just remembered now. Go to Explorer, and you can see this button here, it's a search option. So I typed in 80s, and look at all these brilliant 80s colors. So you can type in cafe and bank, and there's all sorts of things in there. So back to speeding it up again. All right, we're back. I picked some colors. Yeah, I'm good with them. Cool thing about it is we can just keep duplicating these things and keep carrying on. I don't know why. I think it feels like it could be kinda cool if we move these down. I'm just using my arrow keys. Maybe grabbing this. I'm just using the arrow keys to tap it to the right. I don't know, does that look better? I'm gonna pick one more 80s thing, I'll see you in a sec. All right, I'm back. [LAUGH] That's my 80s version. And I guess that is the color basics. So we worked out how to use RGB, switching it to HSB, hue, saturation, and brightness. Then we looked at this cool Adobe Color Themes. If you really enjoyed this, go check out color.adobe.com. That's kind of the big Web interface version of this. Go to Explore, and you can, I guess, see, they're quite small in here. You can see them in a nice, bigger Web version. And what you've gotta do now is take the M that you made earlier. Actually, you made a different letter, remember? It was an E or a J, something easy to draw. And I want to see your color options. So maybe do four or five colorways using your own colors and a mixture of Color Themes. And I'd love to see your examples. So drop me a note on social media. So I'll see you in the next video. Hi there. In this video, we're gonna take this boring background and add a beautiful gradient to it. Gradients are in right now. You might not be as excited by this particular gradient as I am. But, I'll show you how to do your own custom stuff here in Illustrator, all right? Let's get started. All right, you can get started with using any shape. We're gonna use though, under File Open, I've got a file that we can all practice together with. Same one we got started with, it's called Getting Started. So click Open, but it doesn't matter which file. We're gonna use this square in the background, just cuz. You're gonna do type in the next video, and this little fox I made with the shape builder tool. For this background here, I want it to be a gradient background. Gradients disappeared for a while and now they're back. They're cool. They're hip. Let's do them. So, black arrow, got my box selected, and the easiest way to get started is go to Fill and there's kind of a generic gradient here. There it is there. There's a generic black and white, a generic weird yellow-orange one and some sort of hardly blue one. There's this one and this [LAUGH]. There's some terrible ones built into it. But let's just start with black versus white, and we'll change it. To change it, let's click on Gradient Options, OK. And I'm gonna close that back in. Otherwise you can go to Window, open up Gradient from there. Cool, so I'm gonna move them just over here somewhere. So, you can change the color, and the direction, and the type. So, the type is linear, left to right, or straight-line gradient, or radial, here, depending on what you wanna do. Let's start with a linear one. Let's change the colors, we'll just need to double-click these two little swatches down at the bottom here that look like houses. Double-click the white one. And you can pick your swatches, or your color. I'm gonna pick color and just kind of randomly pick a color to get started with. It's gonna be green, of course. And double-click the last slider, to change the in one. And I'm gonna pick another color. I'm gonna keep clicking colors until I find one that I like. That'll do. Okay, you can click it again so it jumps back in. So we've got two colors. We've got a linear. Let's change the direction. You can be very analytical and say, I want it to be top and bottom. Is it 90? No that's 90 [LAUGH]. 180 is gonna flip it across or top to bottom, going to be 90. What I find is, unless you wanted those kind of stock degrees, I just use this tool over here. It's this one here, the Gradient tool, okay? That little square there above the eye dropper. Click on him. What ends up happening is that's the line from top to bottom. You can click, hold and drag anywhere you like to get a kind of more of a custom angle. Okay, that's kinda what I want. Who knows what angle that is. I'm just kinda getting it across there. The other thing to note when you are using this, if I draw a really short one, look, okay, it starts at that green and ends at that dark green in a really short period. So you've gotta decide whether you want it. You can start it out here and all the way passed, so that absolute kinda dark green and the light green are actually off screen and wont be seen. Okay, or do it really short. Now it's quite similar when we're using radial gradient, okay? Kinda sticks itself in the middle there, which is often not what I want. I wanna do this kind of more. I'm gonna click, that's the center of your gradient or your radial gradient, and I'm gonna do something like this. So it's more of a kind of a wofty, I'm gonna grab my black arrow, click in the background, you get what I mean, it's kind of like a linear gradient, it's kind of wafting. [LAUGH] All right, with it selected, back to my Gradient tool. I'll show you a few other things we can change. You can invert it, say you want instead of changing these colors, you can click on this button and you can reverse the gradient. So it's dark in the middle and light around the outside. Now, I've just randomly picked colors. I'm not particularly happy with them. So, you can go off and just keep picking them or remember in the last video, we looked at something called Window. And we went to Color Themes. And we can pick different themes from that. Okay, but sometimes it's hard to work out what a good gradient will look like. So there's a cool little site called Grabient. So it's just grabient.com. And the cool thing about it is just somebody's gone through, this company here, unfold, they've gone through and just picked cool gradients. So, on this first page here, I like this one. And the cool thing about it, how to implement it, let's do that. So that's the beginning color, there's the end color. So I click on it, it tells me the color. And it's done in this hexadecimal number, which is a hash, and then six digits. So it can be numbers or letters, I'm just gonna select it and copy it. So I'm using Edit Copy, so click through that or you can write it down. Jump back into Illustrator. What we can do is double-click this first house. And we don't have the RGB, but we have this hexadecimal number. You can type it all in there, even with the hash. Hit Return, and there's that first blue color. So my second color's quite like this one, but I want exactly this so I click on it, grab that, copy it, back into Illustrator, double-click this and paste that in. Hit Return and I've got those two colors. Don't like radial, I'm gonna go to linear. Then I’m gonna use my gradient tool. Drag it out. That’s the gradient that I want. Now, some of you are gonna ask how I did that where I toggled between using Google Chrome, and then back to Illustrator. You might know already. If you’re on a Mac, it’s Cmd+Tab, so hold the Cmd key down, hit Tab, and you can keep tabbing along to find the application. I find that it's just good for copying and pasting Cmd+Tab, Cmd+Tab. On a PC it's Alt and Tab, okay? So hold the Alt key down and hit the Tab key, and it will cycle through the open applications. Sometimes I gotta catch myself out doing shortcuts on these beginning courses but yeah, you probably were gonna ask so there it is. One last thing we're gonna do is, let's say we find, I'm gonna go to the second page and find one. See this one here? This lovely gradient that has three colors in it. What do I do if there's three colors? So let's get started. First color. Double-click him, paste him in, Return. I'll do the end color. It's probably the same as that last one. Slightly different, but now I need one in the middle. All you do is, there's this kind of like no man's land between these two swatches. Just click there, okay, and you can add another one. Double-click it, jump in here, grab that middle color. Cool, you can get rid of them, okay, you can click on it and just click hold and drag it down to no man's land and it just disappears. It's magic. Undo, put it back, I love my gradient. Now, we've done it to a big rectangle. It doesn't matter what you do it to. You click on this piece. Gonna close down color themes. And you can start the same way, I can go back to my black and white, start adding colors or in this case, because I just did a gradient, I can click on that and it's gonna apply it. I can grab my, awesome. [LAUGH] All right, that's it for gradients in Adobe Illustrator. What we'll do next we'll start looking at type and fonts. All right, I'll see you in the next video. Hi there. In this video we are going to look at how to create type boxes, how to work with fonts and how to download good looking fonts from something called Typekit. Let’s jump in and get started. All right, to get started go to File, go to Open. And in your Exercise Files, there's one called postcard.ai. Open him up, and this is him. All I've done is put an image in the background that I got from Unsplash. It's from Hector Martinez. Very cool image. What we're gonna do is look at type. So, type and text and fonts, all of that stuff. So over here in your toolbar, grab the capital T, the Type tool. And there is two kinds of text boxes you can create. If you just click once, it's called a point type box. All it means is that, When I type, it just keeps on going forever. Okay, so it's really good for, say, you're doing some text for this logo or a heading, okay, just a nice simple text box, just click once. What I'll do is with it selected, I'm gonna select it white, so you get the idea. Okay, the other kind of text box is, let's grab our black arrow. Click on the background so we've got nothing selected. Grab the Type tool and this is better for body copy, it's called an area type box. You click, hold, and drag. It just means it's got a boundary, okay. So that the line comes along and breaks and comes along to the other side. Again, back to the black arrow means it's all selected, make it white. So depending on what kind of text box you need. You can draw a point type box and type on further or drag out a box, get a specific width that breaks. You can see here if I start typing, okay, you'll see it breaks on to the next line. Now, what is all the stuff that's in here? It's just something called Lorem Ipsum. It's just there are actual Latin words that are all mixed up into a random order so that you as a designer can design the look and feel of, say this postcard without having to use actual text. For me as a designer, often I don't have the text yet. Say a copyright is writing it. And also, I'm getting kind of like visual concepts signed off by the client. And we don't want to use actual text because often the client can come back with like grammar and text amends. When really you're after more a style feedback, not text amends. You can leave it in there for the design, but obviously it gets switched out for the end. So we'll work on this body copy down the bottom here, we're gonna kind of put it somewhere over here. And we're gonna look at two kinds of text, so two kinds of text boxes and two kinds of text. When I mean text I mean fonts. Okay, this is defaulting to the last font that I used. It's probably for you gonna be Myriad. Okay, Myriad is like the default font for Illustrator. I've got lots of Myriad. Myriad Pro is probably going to be what it's gonna be, or Minion. It's probably Minion, actually. Minion Pro. Cool, so let's look at the fonts that are built into your computer versus the ones we can download from something called Typekit. So first up with my black arrow with this text box selected, I'm not gonna cover over here on Properties tab. We're not gonna cover everything like font sizing, okay? Easy, there's the line spacing, okay? So they call it leading in here. Okay, but it's just the spacing between the lines. There's the spacing between the characters, so spacing between words, spacing between characters, paragraph, left and right align. I'm not gonna cover all of this because it's pretty basic word processing. The one thing I will show you is see these little dots? So there's the character kind of panel right here and there's these little dots. What could be in here? More options, so you get a bit more detailed stuff. I can make it all capitals, there's subscript, baseline shift, all sorts of other stuff in here. Again, I'm not gonna cover it all cuz it's pretty easy to experiment with. Same with paragraph, we've got left, right justification. Click on this, there's a bunch of other stuff in there. Okay, but I'll let you explore those ones. What I'm gonna do for this, I'm gonna drop down my Character panel and you'll see in here and these are all the ones that are built into my computer, okay. I've got quite a few on my one but I go through, find one that you like. And one thing that can be quite useful, especially if you've got a lot of fonts on your machine like me, like man, I just wanna find a say a serif font or a sans serif. So a serif font is like this one at the top here, it's got the little serifs, okay, the little extra hanging pieces that are off the edges here. So say I want a good serif font. It's gonna cut it down. See this little filter? It drops it down to everything that's on my computer that's a serif font. You can kinda get a sample of the look of a serif font. Okay, so that's uber cool, it's really handy just to go through and kind of cut down the fonts. So I want script fonts. Okay, you can see there is all the script fonts that I have installed on my machine. Some terrible ones, like Brush Script to some nicer ones like Lust Script. You're probably not gonna have all of these but just know that the filter can be really handy. I'm gonna go back to serif fonts and, actually, I'm going to turn it off. Go to All Classes and in here, I'm gonna type in the one that I want. It's the one I already practice with, Goudy Old Style Italic. I'm gonna probably close in the leading a little bit. And get rid of that crazy thing I did there. And put a little full stop at the end of my fake text and that's gonna be my body copy. At the top here, we're gonna look at fonts that aren't from your computer, how to download them from something called Typekit. First, we're gonna put some text. It's gonna be all caps. Your, I'm gonna put a Return in, digital partner. Very generic postcard, not sure who we're sending this to. But this M company that we've made, or whatever letter you've made it. I'm pretending it's a digital agency, does seem sort of creative work anyway. I'm gonna pick a nice big font, okay, and yeah, there we go. So I wanna find a font that's not on my machine. So what we can use is something called Typekit. Now Typekit is a service that Adobe provide but it's not paid but it's complimentary if you have a Creative Cloud license. So I'm signed into my Creative Cloud license to use this software. And as part of it, they give me access to this thing called Typekit. So select your type with the black arrow, drop down the font, and there it is there, Add Fonts from Typekit. It's gonna load up our web browser, it might make you sign in. You can see there, I'm signed in, my smiley face there. And Typekit are just fonts that Adobe allow us to download. They're pretty amazing, there's some really cool examples along the top here to kind of get the creative juices flowing. I wanna know what this is. And you can say get all of these fonts so it downloads. I'm gonna ignore that and scroll down cuz this is the bit that's gonna help me kind of find my fonts. So the first thing we can do is, let's put it on All Libraries. Along the top here I think it starts with true sample text, but you can type in because we know we're gonna be using the words your, I'm gonna use caps, digital. Sometimes you pick a font and it's not til you actually start using it in your characters before you realize, man, that doesn't look so cool. So you can see here this, I don't probably like as a font anyway but you can see that it's really weird spacing in the word your in capitals. Same with that one, and I'll lower the size preview so I can see a little bit better. And actually I might go from this grid pattern to this straight line so you can start to see all the fonts before you download them. Okay, you can use them commercially as long as you've got an up to date Creative Cloud license. The other cool thing to do with these fonts is this classifications over here. Instead of just searching through millions of free fonts online, you can go actually I want to show you the slab serifs. So a slab serif is considered the same sort of serif as we describe earlier, it has these little feet but has really quite thick feet. I didn't even click slab serif, [LAUGH] it's the one I wanted. Okay, so you can see these kind of like university style big slabby serifs on them. Hand drawn fonts. You can choose whether they've considered say you pick a serif font, and you want, actually it's gonna be for body copy so you pick a paragraph recommendation. So it's more of like a easygoing font, easy to read. Where a heading font can get a little bit more exciting, Gastromond. There are lots of other options in here, let's say that I want a thin font because I just decided I want a really thin font so I can fit lots of kind of title ticks. You can see, cuts it all down, super useful. There's different weights, whether they're full caps or no caps, okay, there's lots of things you can work around. I'm gonna turn all these off and I've actually got a font that I've already tried to pick. So I'm going to go to the top, and search. This one's called League Gothic, there it is there. I liked it, a good one while I was making up this example for you guys. So once you've found a font, you can have a look and say, yeah, there's some different weights, and there's an italic version. It's by Tyler Fink, from the League of Moveable Type, like they fight crime. What we can do is we're gonna click on this one that says sync all, and this is the beauty of Typekit. Kick back, Mac or PC, relax. You get a big tick. Somehow [LAUGH] I'm up to 337. That's the thing over here I'm looking for, it says you've added four fonts magically to your computer. It's that easy, don't know how I have more than 100. But anyway, ignore that, let's jump back into Illustrator. And in here now, without doing anything else, don't need to close it down, I can type in League. You can see that's the font that I want. There's there, gonna pick a lot bigger size. And I'm gonna play around with the letter spacing, but that's how to get and use Typekit fonts. Little underwhelmed with my font section now, looked good in my little preview. There we go. All right, so you can skip along now. I'm just gonna do some tidying up. Gonna grab the edge here to kind of resize the text box. Probably what I want to do is interacting with the back, I picked an image that had a nice dark background but I'm gonna do a bit more, I'm gonna grab the Rectangle tool. I'm gonna zoom out a little bit. I'm gonna draw a rectangle that covers half of it. I've got my smart guides on so it should tell me where half is. Pretty good. And go to fill up black, and this opacity here. See the opacity? I'm gonna lower it down. And then I'm going to select it with my black arrow and say arrange to the back to put it behind the text. And you can kind of see what I'm doing there. I'm trying to use it as an element, a design element, but mainly just to darken up the background so we can see my type better. All right, that's how to create text boxes and use Typekit fonts using Adobe Illustrator. Let's move on to the next video where we start looking at some effects like liquify and distort. All right, I'll see you over there. Hello, and welcome to this video where we look at all the Liquify tools in Illustrator. We're gonna take text and we're gonna make it all drippy and droopy. We're gonna make it explode, kind of crystallize, we're gonna twirl it, more exploding. Make it pucker, make it bloat, more wiggling. And then there's only seven tools, so this guy doesn't do anything, but rest of them are pretty cool. Let's learn how to do that now in Adobe Illustrator. To get started, you can open up just a plain old document. I'm opening up a document from the Exercise Files, okay, called, where is it, Liquify, there you are, click Open. The reason you can just, it's just a blank document. But I wanted to put this kind of gray to gray gradient in the background for no good reason. It just kinda looks nice. All right, so we're gonna use type to do like you saw at the beginning there. So we're gonna grab our Type tool, okay. We're gonna click once to get our point type box, we're gonna type in our name. I'm Dan Scott or Daniel Scott or Daniel Walter Scott. So I've typed in my name, I've gone back to my black arrow, just thought I'd have it. And I'm gonna pick a font and a color and a size. So you do the same and I'm gonna use Lust, which one of Lust, go Lust Script. And this one here is Lust Script, is from Typekit and you can go and download that. And I'm going to bump the size up to something like, that works for me. In terms of the fill color, I'm gonna pick the just the color off white to go with my gray, moody background. All right, we need enough space cuz I've given you a nice long document here, it doesn't matter what size it is, but I wanna put eight of these in here. So one, two, I'm gonna kind of stick them next to each other, so. Once you get to here, I can kinda guess, so pick a font size that works so you can put a bunch of them on the page. All right, for this to work, what we need to do, is we need to do something called outlining the text, because this at the moment is editable text. We can't destroy it like you saw at the beginning without kind of breaking it apart. So the good thing is we get to use our Liquify tools. The problem is, is we can't change the spelling or the font of the size afterwards, so we need to break it apart. A really good habit to get into is to copy and paste it and just have a version up here for later on. Because it'll be months, and you'll come back and be like, yeah, what was that font? You'll be like, I have no idea. Because once you've broken it apart it won't tell you that it's Lust Script. So it's just handy to have over there. So this version here, with it selected, with my black arrow go up to Type, and there's one in here that says Create Outlines, okay? And watch what happens to it, just kind of, nothing really changes, except now, if I zoom in, okay, it's no longer edible text, it's telling me it's not Lust. Still looks the same, but I can't double-click with my Type tool, and try to go into it to change it. Where did we end up, remember this from the beginning? We are lost, things have gone weird, okay? We're in something called isolation mode, remember? Click the arrow a couple times to come back out. Cuz at the moment, by default, it's all grouped. So if you double-click it, you insight that group. All right, let's move on to the Liquify tools. Actually, we can't, not just yet. So we've broken it apart, we need a few duplicates. So I'm going to copy and paste it, okay, and just kind of line it up and try and get four across the top and four across the bottom. I'm gonna use my trick, where I'm dragging with my black arrow and I'm holding Alt down on a PC or Option on a Mac, and just trying to get all of these. So what I might do is select them all over here. Okay, this is my line panel, I'm gonna pop this little triple dot open and go in here and say, I want to distribute them horizontally, then I'm gonna drag out another copy. I've got loads to practice on. So select this guy, zoom in. Now, Liquify tools are in this kind of group here. The one on top's called the width tool, click and hold him down and we wanna start with the Warp Tool. Okay, and by default I'm not sure your brush size is going to be the same as mine. So I'll show you how to change that before we get going cuz the brush size is quite important. To change the brush sizes, like we did with the Pencil tool, anybody remember how we changed the Pencil tool? Okay, we change the smoothness and fidelity and stuff, remember? You double-click it. So you double-click it, and we get our Warp Tool options, okay? And width and height, okay, let's just put in 50 points high, 50 points wide. So you deal with the width and intensity, don't worry too much about anything else in here. It's the size because for some reason you have to do the width and the height separately, but the intensity is quite important. That'll make a bit more sense as we go along. So let's click OK. I've got a size about this. I've got it selected, okay? So my black arrow, got it selected, go to my Warp Tool, right, your Warp Tool, okay? And it does this. So this one here, we're gonna do this kind of like dripping, melting text thing, okay? So you can see it's quite cool? Love it. Liquify, I'm just kinda clicking and dragging across it. Drippy text, very cool. Okay, so I wanna go over it with one kind of versional pass, and then I'm gonna go through, maybe, with a smaller brush. Remember, double-click the Warp Tool and go in here and I'm gonna go 20 by 20, okay? Click OK, I'm gonna zoom in a bit, and do some micro blobs within these bits cuz I want it to kinda look like it's dripping. Kinda dragging it out so I get a line and then kinda dragging it down. Totally illegible name now. [LAUGH] I love it, though. All right, I'm gonna leave it there and I move on to the next tool. I lie, I'm gonna grab the Ellipse Tool and do like a little drip hanging off the bottom. Maybe I can put a little. All right, that's for the Warp Tool. Cool? So we've done it with text, you can do it with any sort of drawing you've done. Remember, our penguin from earlier on? You can open him up and make him melt in the sun, but let's look at some of the other Liquify tools. So I'm gonna have this one selected with my black arrow. Click and hold down, and we're gonna work our way through all of them. And let me show you these next two at least, and all the rest you could probably, once you've kinda worked out the basics, you can go and do your own. We'll do them altogether, but let's look at the Twirl Tool. Now, the Twirl Tool, okay, let's double-click it and let's turn our brush size back up to, I'm just picking 40. You don't have to pick my sizes, you might have a different sized font, okay? You can adjust this intensity, though. If I leave it at 50, watch this, it goes, [SOUND], and it goes quite fast, okay? So if I like to, [LAUGH], you can add your own sound effects in there. [LAUGH] So under intensity, I'm gonna turn it down, say, 20%, just so that when it's twirling it's not going so fast, cool. You can kinda see what we're gonna do, right? I'm gonna grab this, I think that's already quite twirled, and drag it out like this, and you get this kind of cool twirling thing going on. Or I'm gonna try to get this n down the bottom here. Watch this, if I click it once and just hold, I get a twirl. But if I click hold and drag it, it kinda starts looping back on itself and you can move it around and just kinda mixing it up to, I don't know. It's getting quite complicated. See all the little blue dots, those are anchor points, and there's just to make that curve work. There are so many needed, so stretching my machine out a little bit. If you're working on a really old, slow machine, yours is probably gonna freak out a little bit, but hopefully not. It's clearly eligible but very cool. Look at that, ooh, I like that. It was good for a second, now, hang on. I can't get my [INAUDIBLE]. Look at that, that's cool. I'm gonna click my black arrow, click in the background to get a good sense of it. You can see some cool stuff you can do. Now, we're doing with Type again, illustrations, shape you've drawn, okay? Super cool. And it's like on this guy with a black arrow, then we'll look at one more. We'll look at Pucker, okay? So Pucker and Bloat, one makes it smaller and one makes it bigger. So these kinda go hand in hand. And let's have a little look, I'm gonna make the brush size bigger. Teasing you, come on, user Dan, show us what it does. Okay, if I click on it, it sucks into the center. But the intensity is probably a little too strong, okay? So double-click it. And for some reason, even down at 20%. This tool needs to be down to 2%. I'm not sure who decided how the intensity will work, but sometimes 50%, sometimes 20%, sometimes 2%, so I need to play around with it. So I'm gonna click on this, I'm just clicking once with my mouse. If you click and hold, it works. That's kinda cool. It's a different kind of font now, but so, awesome. I'm gonna stay right in the middle of this stuff and go, [SOUND], we're awesome. So that is the Pucker. This last one here, you can imagine what the Bloat Tool does. So you can just skip on it and just stop playing with it yourself now. I'm gonna go through them all just so you get an idea, of how why use it at least. I like to kinda click in some of these, I use the target right in the center, okay, to kind of blob out bits, still pretty cool. Right in the center of that. Not my best, Darn Scott. [LAUGH] Yep. So let's have a look at some of the other ones, okay? It is all about experimenting, right? So Scallop, Crystallize, and Wrinkle, all end up not looking the exact same but they crinkle the edges, okay? But they work slightly different ways. Scallop kind of drags it on itself, so it's kind of blasting inwards. And then say Crystallize does the opposite and kinda blast it out, we'll experiment different ones. Okay, and actually, I've said you had to have it selected, I always assumed you did, okay? It's actually easier. We're all learning. You don't actually have to have it selected. And it's actually a little easier to work with when it's not selected, you don't see all the blue lines everywhere. So Crystallize explodes out, Scallop goes in on itself, and then Wrinkle just kinda makes the edges wrinkly, it does a bit of both. So you gotta kinda give this one a wiggle around, okay? And I might have to turn the intensity up on this one, you were like, that doesn't do anything then. Okay, intensity at 2, not so good, let's go up to 20. Okay, and you can see it's wrinkling the edges, so it's going a bit of both. Not a sharp. All right, that my friend is a Liquify Tools. What I'd like you to do, is I would like to see what you've done with your name, okay? So I would like you to type out your name, practice with some of this, and yeah, send me a screenshot or save it through a pic. And share it with us on social media. So remember on Twitter, it's tutsplusdesign or me personally, I'm danlovesadobe, or on Instagram, bring your own laptop, your sick of that, right? I'll stop saying it, it's the last time I talk about social media. If you haven't done it already, you're not gonna do it. All right, Dan Scott, we will see you in the very next video where we look at something similar. We're gonna bend and warp type rather than this kind of more Liquify stuff. I'll show you what I mean in the very next video. I'll see you there. Hi there, and in this video, we're gonna take the super-straight lines, and bend them all sorts of different ways, to get a fix like this, with just one click. We're gonna do it with the lines, we'll do it with type. We'll do it with all sorts of shapes. Same lines, one click a fix, beautiful-ish. Some of them are crimes against design, some of them super smooth, super nice. It's really easy to do, let's look at how to do it now in Illustrator. All right, to get started from your exercise files look for a file called Envelope Distort. Why don't you go and open that one? You don't have to, all that I've got in here is I've got a bunch of rectangles, okay? I've got one, two, three, four, five of them. I've put a tiny gradient in them for no reason. Goes from a lighter green to a slightly darker green. It's hardly noticeable, I've just stacked them on top of each other. Now, the one thing that we need to do, okay? Is that we need to group all of these together. So we're gonna select them all, so black arrow, throw a box around them all or Shift+Click them all, okay? And then go to Object and just make sure they're grouped. Now, we're gonna go to our fix panel and we're gonna come down to Warp. And there's a bunch to pick from, just pick the first one, okay? Hey, okay, and make sure Preview is turned on, okay? And then you can just slowly work your way through all of these different settings. I'll go through them real quick now so that you can see what they all do rather than you having to do it. So Arc does an arc, lower arc kinda bulges out the bottom, same with the top for Arc Upper. Arch, kinda like a rainbow. Bulge, okay. Shell, I'm not gonna read them out, you can see them. Shell Upper, I'm gonna read them out. Flag, I love, wave, not so loved. Fish, I never find a use for, but I really want to. Rise, look at that, some cool stuff? It just means it's such really hard to do some of this stuff with the Pen tool and the Curvature tool. It's often just easier to draw some shapes and then bend and twist them. So it's kinda like what we did in the last video where we use Liquify but it's a bit more consistent. So once you pick one, say I like the Flag, and you can do it vertically or horizontally, okay? And where it says bend you can drag this left and right, depending on how much bend you want, okay? Then you can play with these two different horizontal and vertical distortions. You can get some cool stuff? Look at that, okay? Look at that, bends around on itself. So pick one, stop messing around with these different settings. If you do pick one, and cuz now if I go through it, it's gonna remember these settings that I've picked, these kinda strange horizontal, vertical. So sometimes you might have to go back into it and say, actually, put that back to 0, put that back to 0. Just to kinda, I guess, how it came out of the box. Cool. All right, so I'm gonna pick one, I'm gonna pick my Flag. And I'm gonna make sure it's Horizontal, and I'm gonna play around with that. So there's all kind of like coming out of this point here and flaring out, cool. Let's click OK, cuz I wanna show you a couple things. One is, you've done it and you're like, actually, I want to change that now, so I click on it. It's kind of weird, right? Like the Liquify tool we did earlier, you can't undo that. Once you've done it and you've saved the document, it's done forever. Whereas this, you can kinda still see my rectangles across there, it's this kind of active effect. What's cool about that is you can go and change it. So in my Appearance panel over here, you can see Warp Flag is applied. Click on it, go actually, clients come back and say, I like it. Can we lower it down a bit? And you're like, sure, easy. Can I go and change it? Yep, Warp, pick Flag, back to my lovely Fish. I hit Cancel. One of the wee things that's gonna happen though, is say I like this, but I want it kinda flaring off of the top of the page here. So I wanna rotate it, look what happens. Click on rotate, I have to use the edge of the box here, okay? Not the edge of this projecting kind of effect, but the kind of original rectangles here. And watch this, if I do it around this way, can you see? It's an effect that's trying to make it go horizontal still, so that's a bit weird. So I'm gonna undo, undo, till it's back to normal. To get around that, what you need to do is basically the same as what we did earlier with the the type, remember we outlined it, okay? But with an object, it's called Expand Appearance. So, Object Expand Appearance, and you'll notice that you can't see those little strappy lines in the middle now. It's kind of just a full effect, it's committed forever. I can't change it now, which is a drawback. So you might wanna copy and paste it before you do this, but I get to rotate it. I'm gonna rotate it around, you can squish the ends. Okay, now, it's just a regular old shape. I'm gonna rotate it back around, something like this. And I have type coming out the side for no good reason, just cuz I wanna show you how to do it with type and the pros and cons for that. So type tool, click on it, we're using, I always use my name. You use your name, I'm gonna pick a font. I know what I want, I want Museo Slab, I like this one. Nice big kind of university slab serif, make it nice and big. Now, you notice that I didn't use the font size, okay, I kinda cheated. So there's the font sizes, you can type it in there. Or what you can do is with your black arrow, like we did these shapes. Remember, if you hold down shift and grab the side, we can shrink it down, same with the type. I often do this cuz I don't want it to be a specific size, I guess, I want it to be relative to something, so I need to kind of visually see it, just kinda make it the right size. All right, giant Dan we are going to envelope distort you. The cool thing about this, is that it doesn't need to be grouped, nothing needs to happen, just do the exact same thing, Effect Warp. I'm gonna pick one of these, I'm gonna pick Fish, we love Fish. Okay. [LAUGH] Probably needs to be the other way. Any other way by now. So, I fixed it. [LAUGH] Okay, so that's how you do type. The only other thing I wanna show you with a type is the type is still editable, which is quite cool. So we can double click it, and we can get right in there, and we can be, I don't know, Jan, it's my mum's name. Wal, that's my dad's name. And Ben is my brother's name. I know this doing this course and you're like, actually, we all have three letters. We all cut it down to three letters, anyway, okay? And black arrow kind of in the background there. We've got a pretty spectacular design there. You might use it a little bit more subtly, but you can see it's quick, it's easy, it's updatable. If you need to get rid of the editability and you want to use, say, the Liquify tool now, okay, we need to do the same thing as we did before with this. Okay, the flags, Object Expand Appearance, and now it's no longer editable type, but it is that just kind of like fused shape that I can now rotate around. All right, my friends, that is warping in Illustrator. Often, it gets referred to as an Envelope Distort. It doesn't really matter what you call it, it's pretty cool, but that ends us for now. In the next video, we're going to look at patterns and repeating patterns. It's fun, and I will see you in the next video for that. Hi there, in this video, we're going to take this shape that we made earlier, flip it upside down. And then, turn it into a repeating pattern that goes on forever and ever and ever. We'll take a simple one and then turn it a lot bit of more abstract version of it. We'll flip it around and it will just repeat on forever for us. It's great for backgrounds, I use it for printing of fabrics, printing wallpapers, gift wrap. Repeating patterns are awesome and easy. Let me show you how to do it now in Illustrator. All right, to get started, go to exercise files and you're looking for this one here called Pattern. Open that up, again, you can use this file here it's just something we drew earlier, but you can use your example. We'll just hand draw anything, you could use our penguin, or the sea creature you made. Now to make a repeating pattern, if we just want it to be the M, we just leave it as is. I'm gonna group it so select it all, Object Group, I'm gonna copy and paste it so we got another version of it. And I'm just gonna rotate it around, okay, just so that I get more of an interesting kind of wallpapery pen. The other thing you need to do is that whatever size it is now, so this is my US letter. And size, this is going to be the size of the pattern. It's quite hard to adjust the size of the pattern after you've made it. So if this is the size you want it leave it there, but I want it to be kind of a small pattern. Okay so I'm holding, stick to them both, holding down Shift shrinking them down, I've got them there. So I'm gonna select them both, I'm gonna go to Window and I'm gonna go to this unlikely character here, it's called Pattern Options. It doesn't seem very exciting, right? But this is where the excitement is hidden. So Window Pattern Options and this opens up. Another big problem is, like, hey, here's the Pattern Options, nothing works. Here, I click this little hamburger menu here, click on him, go to Make Pattern and life comes good. Don't worry about this, it's added to the swatches panel, we'll talk about that in a second. Click OK, and that, you can kinda see, I'm gonna zoom in a little bit now, okay, is my pattern, it's already kind of cool? Imagine that and say it's our brand for our logo, imagine this getting turned into wallpaper that is like in the reception lobby, board room thing, go on. And a couple of things that I like to do is, you have probably got this undimmed copies? It dims the one like, so those are my two originals, and there's the repeats out here, and you can retouch them. It dims them for some reason. I'm just gonna turn this off so I, wanna give it the full look? In Show The Edge, I'm in the edge either, I wanna see what the pattern looks like? How many copies? So it's going 5x5, I wanna go up big, not the biggest I can go 5x7, 9x9. Hey just so, it's spread out a bit further? It's just a Preview, it will actually continue and forever, okay? But just as a lot of Preview would, just say 9x9. So what else can you do? Now, the grid is interesting but not exactly what we want, right? Go to that which is tile type and start playing around with these options. This is where it gets quite cool, brick by row, brick by column, it looks the same, hex by column, [LAUGH] hex by row, that's kinda cool. Once you do find one, you have got some adjustments. You can play around with this, so my one is 0.7 by 0.2, I'm gonna go 1 by 0.3. Don't worry too much about what these measurements are, it's kind of a bit of an experimentation. Okay, 1x1, nope [LAUGH] 0.5 x.0.5, it's overlapping, it's doing some cool stuff. Okay, I'm messing about now and it's not looking so good. [LAUGH] Overlap, you can decide on how these guys overlap? If they do get in really small, so watch this. If I go 0.2, you can see that overlapping now? And I can tell it who goes on top? So well, you can kind of see it in the background there. You on top, who's on top, now it's me. Let's name our pattern. This one's gonna be the M Company. Did we even name this thing? I don't think we did. It was just a brand that we kind pf fake made, Momentum, it's the Momentum Agency. I'm gonna go back to Grid, I'll play around with this a little bit. I'll get the Editor fast forward while I mess about. All right, we're back, and you would have noticed I spent ages doing that. [LAUGH] That's okay, so what happens now? You're like okay, I've done it, I like it, what do we do? This is the really weird thing about this tool, you're like great, where's the button? It's way over here, can you see on the top left here? Okay, we've seen this before when we used isolation mode. But in this case, their using this little gray bar and we wanna hit this one that says Done, and we say, I'm done, thanks. And your like what happened? [LAUGH] Where did it all go? Okay, so what happens is, you use these as your creation tools. You make them and you make your patent and that pop-up in the beginning says, don't worry, we'll make it and we'll stick it in your swatches panel for you. And that's where we need to go find it, so we don't need this anymore. I'm just gonna put them over here cuz, I don't know, I don't wanna delete them for no reason. I'm gonna draw out a rectangle, well, any sort of size I'm gonna cover the whole background. Don't worry about the fill color or maybe give it a stroke, give it no stroke, but the fill color is where we're gonna change it. This thing popped up, you can have it open, it doesn't matter because the same thing's up here and here when you go to swatches, it's up to you. So I've got my rectangle selected, I've got the fill color clicked. And there is this, with teeny, tiny little M Company, there it is there, there's my film, cool? And there is my crazy repeating M pattern, I love it. All right, next thing is let's edit this pattern, let's first of all change what's in it physically and then we'll change the size. So if you go to Fill, so I've got the big rectangle selected. Go to Fill, there's this option that says Pattern Options. Or you can go to Window and Pattern Options is down here. Okay, it doesn't matter which way you go, and nothing really happens. Go up to the hamburger menu and say, I would like to edit this pattern. And we go back into that kind of mysterious world here with the grey bar at the top. And now what it let's us do is let's click on this one that says Show Tile Edge, cuz that's kind of the boundaries of this repeating tile. So what I can do is I can copy this guy here and paste it, so I've got another guy? You can see what it's doing over all these different places, and now you can get all kind of like funky with copy pasting another one. And I do this more, I guess trying to go for random. Just kind of moving it around so it fills in some of these gaps, maybe one more. I wanna do a small one but I think I might, and this is where, cuz this is lots of overlapping now. Say, it depends on which color's your primary color. You can start messing around with like who's on top? Who's on bottom? And yeah, Makes a bit more sense when you got them overlapping. Now we've done it with the same repeating pattern, okay? If you've seen patterns with, I don't know, it's a sea theme and there's a fish, and then there's a starfish and there's a bucket and spade. Draw these things and then kind of move them around to fit the gap. When you are done, just like we did before, click this Random button up here, done. And then, what it didn't do before is it didn't just disappear and you have to reapply cuz a very big chunk of it applied. It's starting to do some cool, I don't know, Jack and the Beanstalk stuff. I think it's a little bit more abstract now for our, actually, what I might do is, actually, I'm gonna go, [LAUGH] I'm gonna go and adjust this [LAUGH]. You don't want to see me doing it, I'll do it at the end if you wanna hang around. But what you do need to see is what happens when you try and resize this box. Watch, I'm gonna resize it, okay, you can see it gets smaller. Just kind of way, black arrow, grab this rectangle, make it smaller. It resizes with it, which is not quite what I want, or it is, one or the other, okay? Sometimes you do want it, sometimes you don't. We need to go and change this, okay? So with it selected, actually you don't need it selected, go to Window and go to this Window option that says Transform, the Transform panel opens. Okay, and in here, there's a little fly out menu, it's really hidden, you've gotta bookmark this video if you wanna do this. If you're loving this pattern stuff because, man, I only remember this cuz I have to teach it so many times, where they hide some of these bits. But you can see here it says Transform Both. So when I'm resizing something or transforming it, it's gonna resize both the object and the pattern. What I can say is actually, I wanna transform just the object only please. So it means when I resize this now, you see? It's kinda little bit more maybe what you need. And the trouble is it's on forever. So next project a month later, when you start doing something you're like, why is it only, why isn't it rotating? Okay, so what you can do and what I do is as soon as I've kind of got it to what I want, I go and turn it back to both. Now, I get to resize it and kinda get it to a smaller size, turn it back to Object Only, and I can resize this up and it will keep repeating forever. Now, a couple of things before I get into playing with my button, is I am going to, say I've got a new document. Okay, I'm just gonna use all the defaults, click OK, and you notice over here in my, got a rectangle, fill it, go to here and you're like, where did it go? It was there and it's gone, okay? I've got this tasty treat [LAUGH], it's one of the default ones from Illustrator, okay? And what you can do to get it from this document to this one, okay, is that in this first document, click the Tab, just grab this rectangle. Don't worry too much about it, just copy it and click in here and watch, let's just paste it, paste it anywhere. You can even delete it, I don't need it anymore, okay. But that whole just bringing it in, lump it into the swatches of the document. Now, there is a long winded way of going in, saving out swatches and loading them back in again. So you can save out swatches using this ASE format and then open that Library and bring it back in, it's just a really long way. All you need to do is just copy and paste it from the document that you already had. Anyway, one last thing, I keep saying one last thing, is something called Spoonflower, let's jump to that. All right, so this is Spoonflower, and basically it's a fabric printing business. They do all sorts of stuff, but mainly fabric. So you can design your pattern in Illustrator. I'm not gonna explain exactly how they upload it and get it ready for this, it's pretty easy. There's a How It Works, and you can go through their process. Basically, you just upload your design, pick the fabric, okay? And they'll print it on any sorts of fabrics, or actually print it on to actual things, like pillows and stuff pre-made. But what I do, is I just get it printed onto actual fabric, okay? You can pick your fabric, so here, so you upload your design, choose your product, print your order. You can see here there's some basic cotton and all sorts of cool fabrics that it comes out on, okay, all sorts of cool stuff. What I did when I originally got started with them is I've got a swatched pick sample pack, okay? So you can get, I guess a feel for all of the different fabrics before you order them, okay, and yeah, you print it. And they print really small runs, which is quite cool. They print by the meter or by the yard. Yeah, it just turns up and you can start sewing it into things. I mean, we get things like wallpapers done for businesses or wrapping paper for maybe corporate gifts or your own personal gifts. Anyway, that is Spoonflower, and that is gonna be us for doing this amazing pattern making. I am now gonna close this down and mess about with my pattern to try and make it less like a beanstalk. But if you hit me up on social media with the things you've created, take a little snapshot, I'd love to see what you've done. After you've done that, I will see it in the next video, where we vectorize an image. We turn it into a cool vector hand-drawn illustration with the click of a button. All right, I'll see you over there. Hi, there. This image we're going to create kind of a vector poster effect. We're gonna take regular old images like this guy. I'll zoom out a bit and turn them into cool stuff like that. Same with this. Took an image, made it kind of like a three-color screen-print style. And then we did this handsome man into a bit of a stencil and then we made it white and it get's all creepy. No matter what you wanna do, it's all pretty easy. Illustrator does all the hard work. Let me show you how to do it now. All right, to get started just create a blank document, okay, any old size. And lets go to file, and place and image. File place In your exercise files, grab the one called Live Trace and let's click place. Now, it's very easy just to click hold and drag this out so it fits within your page. Okay, it will just resize it if it comes in nice and big. So with it selected with your black arrow, head over here in your quick actions, there's this option called Live Trace. Kick back, relax, get ready. Actually, no. Click it and pick one of these. Let's pick three colors. Now, kick back and relax. Now, it depend on your machine. Mine's pretty good high core machine, in terms of a laptop. It's still gonna take quite a while, so I'll get the editor to speed this up. I'll see you in a sec. All right, we're back. That took maybe another 60 seconds or so. It's not very long. If you've got a hand-me-down laptop, and your computer starts making funny noises, and the fans come on, and it starts overheating, just know that's real common, it's quite a stressful thing it has to do. So you might have to just relax and let it do its thing, and come back after a cup of tea. But it's pretty cool it's gone through and turned this into a three-color document. It has used colors from the document to make them. Let's look at how to adjust the options. So hopefully you still got it selected. Over here where it says trace image. You can go through the presets. I'm not gonna go through them all because it says it takes a long time. We'll go through one or two more later in the class. But let's say you like this but we just wanna change it a little bit. See this little option here. Says open the trace panel. And this big old panel opens up. Actually, yours is probably looking a little bit more like that. So make sure preview is on. And what you can do you can see here I can adjust the colors, okay. I can decide whether it's black and white or gray scale. Along the top here are some other kind of presets you can click on. The trouble with them is that they do take a while once you do click on one of them. So, let's go through and pick one of the other presets. Let's go to six colors, and then we'll do one more before we go. We'll go fast. All right, so now pick six colors. It's quite cool, I love it. So there's some really cool stuff around here. Bike looks awesome. Okay, so couple of things I wanna show you before you go off and start practicing with all of these. Cuz there's gonna be a time where you're like, actually I wanna, cuz what happens with Live Trace it's this effect that always kinda running. And it can really stress your machine out when you try to adjust things. If I rescale it down now, it's gonna freak out, okay. So what we need to do, kind of like what we did with, remember the envelope distort, where we had just the straight lines? Okay, there were rectangles, then we had to eventually go up to object and go to expand appearance. There's a similar sort of process for this. The trouble is that you can't have all these presets anymore, so that's the kind of tradeoff. Let's close this down. With it selected is the word expand over here. We'll click on expand. Some more initial pixel clustering. Wait for that to finish. All right, so it hasn't made a blue outline just cuz it's selected, so click off from the background. And nothing really changed, except now what I can do is, remember black arrow moves everything around in one big go. Okay, a little bit slowly. And lets go to the white arrow and now we can say click on his shirt once and then drag it over. Move the white arrow it removes little pieces and I can delete it, or I'm gonna put it back, I'm gonna grab this chunk and check this out. Cool? What you also might do is let's say we've got this kind of accent color in his shirt, if you click on one of them. Say you wanna change all of the blue you'd be there for a long time, right? So what you can do is click on one of them with the wire. If it's not working just click off from the background first then back on it. Then go up to select, I would like Illustrator to select everything that has the same fill color, cool? It's a cool, little trick. And it will go through the whole document and find that color. Now I can go to my fill and I can say you are now pink. Click off from the background, it's a nice, quick way for doing that. Now, we've dome it for this Live Rrace, but that slick, same color I use quite a bit through Illustrator when I'm doing maybe a design, maybe it's a website design, or something like that. And you're like I wanna change this color, but it's been used throughout your huge design. You can do select same color. Okay, so do your Live Rrace, get it how you want, and then click expand. Then use the white arrow to mess about with it. One last thing I want to show you is, it's really cool to kinda do a stencil with this. We've done a kind of a full-color image. What I'm gonna do, is I'm just going to pull our mesh in, struggling with this, just cuz there's so many paths in here, those anchor points. If I selected over the white arrow, it kind of has a seizure, look at it. It doesn't even wanna select it, cuz there's just so many anchor points that make up this image that It's gonna look cool, but it's gonna stress your machine out a bit. [LAUGH] We'll fast forward this. All right, we're back, so many dots to select. Even clicking off brings up the bouncing ball of doom. All right, we're back, so we're gonna bring in another image, [LAUGH] once this ball's gone. All right, we have to fast forward that up, that took a little while. I'll leave it in there kind of just so you know if you're machine's gone really badly, don't worry I got a pretty good Mac here and it's still stressed. Maybe because I'm doing video recording, maybe even if it wasn't it's still pretty bad. So let's bring in another image file, let's go to place and let's say I wanna use me. My smiley face there. So the one called Daniel Walter Scott, we're gonna place that image in here. But I want it to be that stencil like you saw at the beginning. So I can go through and say actually, Live Trace it, let's go to a black and white logo. It's kind of half work but what I really wanted was kind of me by myself without the background. And the way to do it is we need to jump into Photoshop. Now I know not everyone has Photoshop skills. Probably a lot of people will. If you don't I have a Photoshop course here on Envato TutsPlus, go check that out. We'll just do some real basic stuff. So I'm gonna delete that and I'm gonna open that same image up in Photoshop. So in Photoshop, File Open, where is me? Daniel Walter Scott. That's me with my microphone being in shot. Anyway, I wanna cut myself out. A really quick easy trick is Select and Subject. It's a really cool new feature in Photoshop. If you got an old version of Photoshop, you might have to use the Click selection tool and magic? It's a little hard to see often in these videos the marching ants around the outside but if you can see them it's done a pretty good job. And because this is a stencil I'm not worried, I just want a real basic selection. If you don't have that cool little Select subject option, just use this tool here. It's called the quick selection tool. And, just kind of work your way around. I may have lost a little bit of my hair. I can't lose any of my hair. I've lost too much. I need this tiny bit on the top. [LAUGH] Yeah, I need to go back in there. Okay, so, any which way you get a selection, I'm gonna use a real cheap trick. No, I won't. I'll do the proper way. With the background selected, see there's an option here, make a mask. It's this a little square with a circle in it, let's cut out the background. Don't worry that's it's all a bit chunky here. We should fix it but it's not gonna make any difference to our stencil. All right, let's go to file, let's go to save as, and I'm gonna save it on my desk top and my class files, Daniel Walter Scott. Click if everything's okay. Close down Photoshop. Back into Illustrator. So if you tidy it up first in Photoshop like that, just delete the background. If you are like, man, Photoshop's new to me and I'm not gonna go do the course, just use the eraser tool and just delete the background. Because the stencil doesn't need to have a perfect edge, you can do something simple like that. So file place, I'm gonna bring in the image that we put on our desktop. Okay, Daniel Walter Scott. There he is. Drag it out and because I'm all by my lonesome now, I can go through and do Live Trace, go black and white logo and just doesn't have any of the background. Cool,huh? Another weird thing is, I think it's because we brought in a PSD instead of that original jpeg but you notice the options have disappeared over here. Yours might not do this. Mine seems too. So, if you can't find that's cool options that we get to change it from remember three color to a six color. You can get through it the long way by going out to window and go to it's called trace image. And you'll get back into this little option. If you know why it's not happening, message me on social media. I'm not sure why. It doesn't matter if it's the black arrow or the white arrow. But anyway, we can get there the long way by going to window, trace image. And what we can do is, this is is quite important when we're doing stencils. Which is I lower it down and I can see a bit more detail. Okay, or at least you can kind of see what it's doing right, it's kind of lessening the dark areas. Okay, you can just kind of drag it up and down to where it looks good for your stencil. [LAUGH] That's pretty good. Anyway, I'm gonna go back to something. Can I see my eyes in any of these? There's not a real good balance, but you get the idea, right? You can tidy it up in Photoshop and then get this kinda nice, cool stencil thing. I want the glasses and eyes. That's close enough. Now remember, once you're finished, you need to expand this thing. Which is not over here anymore. So we're gonna have to use the long way. I'll leave this in the course because you might have the same problem. Normally, though, they're just over here. You can do the options and do the expand. But that's the long way. Expand these guys. And now I can grab my white arrow and because at the moment, I've got this black stuff and this white stuff in the background. I'm gonna click on white. What I mean by that is, watch this, if I drag the whole thing, can you see it's actually a white background? So I'm gonna move it over here to make it a bit easier. Grab my white arrow, click on it. I could delete it, but there's all these other white areas so remember our trick. I'm gonna undo, select any bit of white. Then, remember? Select Same Fill Color. Look at us, then hit Delete. Now, we've just got my handsome stencil. All right, so that is how to victorize an image. We did kind of a stencil style plus, I guessm a color kind of victor redraw style here. Your homework is to do your own image. You have to go to Unsplash and find another cool image. Or, find a picture of yourself. It could be your dog, could be your kids. And yeah, make sure you share it with me. I'd love to see what you do. But, for now, that is us, we are going to jump into the next video where we look at exporting for print and for web. All right, see you in a bit. Hi there. In this video, we're going to export our postcard, we're gonna export some icons, we're gonna make JPEGs ,we're gonna make PDFs. We'll show you to make real high quality ones for your printer, low quality ones that you can get downloaded from our website with emails. Plus how to export individual icons, PNGs, SVGs, it's all very exciting. Enough talk, let's get started. All right, to get started, if you go to File, Open and go to your exercise files, there's two files we need. Okay, files even, Export Print and Export Web. Open both of those up for me, one looks like this, one looks like that. Okay, let's start with exporting print, so just click on the tab along the top. And let's say, our goal here is to send this out to get printed. We want 100 copies done at our local print shop. The most common format for sharing with printers is a PDF. We'll do a JPEG as well but a PDF will give you better results, retain some of the vector goodness inside of these images. Don't worry too much about it. Just know that PDFs give you really high quality, really small file sizes. Now to do it, it's kinda weird. You got to File and you think you go to Export but nope, you go to Save As. Go to Save As and the big thing we need to do is down at the bottom where it says format, change it to PDF. The other thing I'm going to do, is I'm gonna put it on my desktop in that class files folder that we made. I'm just gonna to leave the name alone and click Save. All right, so this is where all the magic happens, and up at the top here, where it says PDF Preset, change this to High Quality Print. So that's step number one. The only other thing you need to do is where it says preserve illustrator editing capabilities. Turn that off, why? Because with that on, there's actually no difference between the PDF that we're making and the illustrator file. It has all like working back end stuff that only illustrator needs, your printer doesn't need it. So with that off, it makes the file not as smart let's say, but it makes the file sizes absolutely small. And there's nothing that the printer actually needs, okay, so don't worry about it. Just set it to high quality, print, turn that off, and hit save PDF. Illustrator is gonna say, hey, you turned that thing off. But I kinda half explained it there. We just don't need all that extra information for a PDF. It does its thing. Let's check out my desktop. I've got that class files and there it is there, exporting PDF. It is only 0.6 megabytes, teeny tiny. Let's have a look if we don't do it, cuz if you're like man, it's a big PDF. It's probably cuz you've accidentally forgotten. I'm gonna do a v2. You've forgotten to turn that off. So I've left it on just to see what it does. Let's have a little look, takes a lot longer to make, but let's have a little look. Got a v2. One is 31 megabytes, and one is 0.6 megabytes. So huge difference. They will both print exactly the same for the printer. Just with a lot of information they don't need. All right, so that's how to get a high quality looking real good print. Let's look at doing say something that's gonna be a PDF still, but it's gonna be something that's maybe downloadable from your website, or something that you email out to clients. So let's look at doing, it's a very similar process Save As, this one's going to be my Low Res version. Same thing as before, PDF and all we need to do though is at the top, let's go to smallest files size, make sure that's off. It's still off, click Save, it says, you turned that thing off, I said I know. Now my disk up here, you'll get a lot smaller version Low Res, can you see? That was 650 kilobytes, that is only 99. Now, if you have a look at it, it looks fine. It's a lot smaller, it's teeny tiny. And I guess in today's world, half a megabyte is just fine. So you might not even have to get down to that really small file size. But we just got one page, you might have a huge document with all sorts of things going on. Now one thing that might happen is, it's not unlikely but you might get a chance where you've set it to the high quality and still coming out really ugly, you know, what happened? You can go up to affix and go to document raster settings, okay? And that might have been switched to run to something like screen, very low quality. You can turn it up here. Click OK, yeah, I've had students run into that in the past. Let's say now that I want a JPEG, and this JPEG could be going for print, cuz you're just like, I don't like PDFs, I need a JPEG for some reason. Or it needs to be uploaded to, say, your WordPress blog, and you need a JPEG. Again, they like to hide this in a weird spot. Let's go to File, let's go to Export. And we're up to this one that says Export for Screens. You can use the Export As as well, or all three of these work. This is just the newer one. Exports for Screens, and it's just really handy. I want to export this one here to this tab. Yours probably defaults to Artboards. When I export this Artboard, where do I want it to go? I'm gonna click this little Browse button, I'm gonna stick it on my Desktop, and that same file Choose, what kind of format do I want it to be, okay, this case JPEGs probably, work perfect. We'll do PNGs when we look at web in a minute but basically, this is our quality slider here, try 100 and what you're looking for, that's like is good as it can get. You may have to lower it down to file sizes getting too big. But JPG 100 is kinda look nice, you might actually just add a scale. And instead of scale, we're actually turn it back to 1 and actually just say, I want a JPEG that's 50 as well. So it's gonna give me two options when it exports. And I can compare the two just to see the file size versus the quality. All right, let's click Export Artboard and hopefully now, I've got Artboard 1 and Artboard 1-50 that means it's just the half quality one. And you can see the size is about half, and let's look at the two resolutions one, two, one, two, one, two. Hardly see the difference, so either those work for me. Let's look at something doing something slightly different. So PDF is the best, JPEGs are fine. But let's say, I wanna export lots of individuals parts like this. I don't want this to be a full, white document with these guys in the middle. I want them to have this kind of transparency so I can see through them. So that's first thing. I need to make them something PNG. But also, I don't wanna export them like, what a lot of people do is they'll delete this, then export that one. Okay, and then delete everything but this one, and then export that. So exporting them individually is a new little trick that illustrator does. And they like to hide it in a completely different space from all the other things, and it's this option here under window, and go to this one that says, Asset Export. So this little panel here, I'm just gonna drag it to the side. So all you do is, grab this one here. Just Click, Hold and Drag it. You can't drag the center cuz there's no fill on it, you have to grab the edge. So black arrow, grab the edge, drag it over here. There he is there. So we drag all our icons in. We give them a name. This one's called My Palette. Man, I can't spell. [LAUGH] French person. [LAUGH] Okay, so I drag this, next one in, I can spell funnel. Here we go. A new phase, funnel. All right, flame, I can spell. Let's have a look at Flame, so what I am going to do is this is actually in two parts. So I am going to select it with my black arrow, both of them, and then I am going to drag both of them in, and wrong, okay. Can you see because they weren't grouped, I mean these must be two separate shapes, okay. So I'm going to undo that and then you see two separate shapes. But if I select them both, go to object go to group first then drag them in, and then I can call it flame. Knowing that we can drag more than one in, I've grouped all of these ones for you, so now I'll grab all of these and let's drag them all in. You can see how it gets a little easier with a bit of practice. This one's my brush, this one is my stamp. Yes, I can spell all of these ones, pencil, that'll do. Okay, so you've got them all in here. Nothing really has happened, so this is kinda like a holding area, okay. What I need to do is I need to select all of these. But when I click it, can you see what went blue? The editor will zoom in. It's a little hard to see on your own screen. You can click on individual ones and I can pick, I want it to be a JPEG or I want to be a PNG. What I'd like to do is just do them all at the same time. So hold shift and just click them all, until they're all blue. All right, now to the bottom here, you gotta decide on the format. Now, let's pretend we are going out to our website, and we want transparency. So JPEG, unfortunately, doesn't allow transparency. It'll put a white background on here. So if you export it, you'll be like, white background, weird. So you need to be this PNG. That will give you your kinda transparent background. But there is a new format that's getting more and more popular called SVG. Could do PDF here as well, okay? But SVG would be say, I'm sending it to a web designer or developer for icons for a website. They might go, you might have a chat with them. They're kinda new. Like the developers I know, half of them know exactly what an SVG is and how to use it, and the other half are like, so I just send them JPEGs. What you can do though, if you're unsure, or if you're unsure if they're unsure, is see this thing that says add scale? We're not gonna scale it out, we're gonna back to 1x, so they're both the original size. But we're gonna do this, so it just means one's gonna be PNG, one's gonna be SVG, and it's just gonna make two copies for you. You can send them both and they can just use whatever they like. So let's click Export. In my Class Files, I'm gonna make a folder just to keep them all separate. So these are my Web Icons. Click Create, pick Choose, and hopefully now on my desktop somewhere, I've got web icons, and you'll see I've got two brushes. One's a PNG, one's an SVG. And if you're like what is an SVG, it's basically a vector graphic. Now everyone knows what a vector graphic, go check out a video here on Envato Tuts+ about vector verses bitmap. It will explain it with a lot more detail. But a PNG is a certain size and if I scale, it's bigger, it's gonna get all yucky and distorted. But in SVG, if I scale it up, you see a kings scale up to a size of a mountain or a teeny tiny size and it's still very, very small, a lot smaller than the PNG. So that's getting you more and more around the world. SVG is a scalable vector graphic, PNG is, I have no idea. It's some sort of group. [LAUGH] Photography network group, I'm guessing? And the cool thing about it is you can see you've got all these icons now all ready to go. It gets even better when you start updating them. Watch this, if I go through now and I change the stroke color of this one to pink, can you see it change over here? And hit Export. Actually I'll just do them all, let's do them all, click on all of them, click on stroke, they're all pink, you see the updated here, export, man, cool? Think of all the time you can save, they all should be updated in pink. Just make sure they're grouped, give them a name, learn how to spell and that my friends is how to export for both print and for web using Adobe Illustrator. All right, I will see you in the next video where we say goodbye. Don't skip the last video, though. I've got some useful parting information. I'll see you over there now. All right, welcome. You made it to the end. I hope you enjoyed the class, I hope you really love Illustrator as much as I do. The next steps for you, so you've done a really good general introduction to Illustrator, and the next steps for you is to maybe look at some more specific things. Here on the site, there are some really cool other tutorials for Illustrator. So go to Search, and just search for Adobe Illustrator and you'll find there's some really cool stuff. Daniel White's got some cool stuff and Jonathan Lamb also has some really cool tutorials here. If you wanna see small stuff from me, I've got kind of like, this is the Illustrator for beginners. I've got a Photoshop for beginners, so if you are new to it or know it a little bit, go check that one out on Daniel Scott here. And so what else can you do? Your homework, or the projects. Remember to post them on the forum, remember to go to the forum and search for Adobe Illustrator for beginners or post them to social media. I'm on Twitter, it's two accounts to tag, there is @TutsPlusDesign and also @danlovesadobe, that's my personal one so tag both of us. I'm also on Instagram, I am @bringyourownlaptop. Yeah, that's the end. And I never know what to do at these end parts. Yeah, I like to just keep talking until I run out of things to talk about, and we get to that awkward bit where I just stare at the camera for a while. I'll wave, though. We're at that point. [LAUGH] Bye now, hope to see you in another course. I'll keep waving for a while. 