 What's going on today. Everybody hope you're having a great day today. So far, uh, in this one that today we're going to be taking a look at Microsoft stock to figure out whether or not it's a good buy at the current price. So I'm going to start by giving you an update regarding uh, some of their recent activity and then we'll get into some valuation metrics and numbers and really dive into some financials. With that being said, let's go ahead and jump right in. So for those of you who weren't completely familiar with Microsoft, uh, Microsoft technology company, they develop a manufactured license and sell computer software, consumer electronics, personal computers, and different related services. Now when their new CEO sat yet Nadella came on board a few years back to the things that he really wanted to do were to convert users of Microsoft's operating system and software to subscription based billing. And the second was to increase presence in the cloud computing industry with its Microsoft as your program. And we'll talk a little bit more about this as we get into the video. Now. So far, year to date, share prices are up about 15% from $160 to 184 during the initial market crash or market sell off, Microsoft share prices hit a low of roughly $130 but they've recovered very nicely and overall Microsoft has been pretty resilient to the lockdown and at least financially speaking, it's essentially business as usual for Microsoft. If we take a look at a chart that compares Microsoft performance year to date to the S and P 500 and software sector, you'll see that Microsoft has outperformed the S and P 500 by a massive margin and the software sector overall by a fairly comfortable margin. Not only that, but Microsoft is continuing to reward its shareholders by returning nearly $10 billion, which is up 33% year over year with $6 billion in share buybacks and three point $9 billion in dividends paid. In recent news, Microsoft signed an agreement to acquire Metta switch networks, which provides virtualized network software, voice data and communication solutions. And they've said the deal provides their cloud platform, Azure with the specialized software needed for running virtualized communication functions, applications and networks. And this purchase really builds on Microsoft's recent addition of affirmed networks, which is a cloud native mobile network solutions provider. Also on Monday, May 18th FedEx and Microsoft announced a multiyear collaboration, which will combine FedEx is logistics capabilities with Microsoft cloud technology. The first solution from the partnership is called FedEx surround, which basically uses data and real time analytics to improve supply chain visibility. It's really going to particularly help businesses that depend on time-sensitive delivery. So for example, and these are two examples that they gave when they made the announcement. A quote, a hospital may originally need a package to help save a life or apart may need rapid transport to a manufacturing facility to avoid an operational shutdown. So things along these lines. So Microsoft definitely been busy and they're such an exciting company overall. One of my favorite actually. And if you follow me on Twitter, you know that I talked a lot about buying Microsoft stock when they were near lows during the recent crash. So with that on your radar, let's go ahead and take a look at some financials and valuation metrics. So first I wanted to own a store with the income statement. This basically is going to show us the company's revenues and expenses during a particular period of time. In this instance, I've gone ahead and pulled out revenue, operating income and net income numbers for the previous six years so that we can get an idea of how revenue for the company is growing. So first we can see that revenue grew roughly 14% from 2018 to 2019 and we'll compare this number to the overall software sector average later in the video to get an idea of how they stack up to the rest of the sector because that's something that's very important to understand. Now revenue. Um, just do a quick definition is the total amount of income that's generated by a company for the sale of any products or any goods or services that they offer. And this is before any expenses are deducted. So over the last six years, the compound annual growth rate for revenue was 6%. So this tells us essentially how much revenue grew per year on average over the last six years, for the last three years, you'll notice the company annual growth rates actually higher at 9%, which tells us that they've grown revenue at a faster rate recently. Now, big reason for that was the down near that they had in 2016 and that was largely because they laid off the Microsoft mobile staff. I don't know how many of you remember Microsoft mobile. Uh, and that was after having taken a write off of seven and a half billion dollars of Nokia hardware assets that were acquired and they ultimately discontinued development of windows mobile. So in addition to revenue numbers, one of the important numbers to look at is operating income and operating margin. Now operating income is the sum total of a company's profits after subtracting it's regular recurring costs and expenses. So it's an important number to look at to get an idea of how well a company's core business is operating. And then we have operating margin which measures how much profit a company makes on a dollar of sales. So after paying for regular recurring costs and expenses, uh, you get operating income and then you can figure out how much of that income based on how much revenue they make, how much of that is operating margin. Um, so one of the things that you want to do while you're looking through data like this is to try and find patterns. And if you'll notice operating margin has increased in each of the last five years and that's a great sign. You don't want to see operating margin decreasing because that would mean the company's experiencing higher operating costs. And this can present a longterm burden on the company if it's not dealt with. And real quick guys, if you're liking the video so far, don't forget to hit the like button. It really helps out the channel. And it gets this video out to more people. So if you do take the time to do that, I really appreciate it. So if we hop down here to a similar breakdown of revenue numbers, but this time by quarter, um, and keep in mind here, Microsoft's fiscal year runs from July 1st to June 30th, so it doesn't line up with the calendar year so that the quarter that they just reported was actually their Q3. So, um, if you, if you take a look at the breakdown of revenue numbers, uh, by quarter you'll see that revenue in Q three of 2020 grew about 14 and a half percent over Q three of 2019 and you can see the comparisons quarter over quarter growth, um, in the right hand column here, revenue quarter over quarter. Uh, and again, looking for patterns. We can notice that Q2 typically has been, um, a Microsoft's best performing quarter, which is not uncommon given the time of year. And we'll also notice that Q4 is typically a good performing quarter for Microsoft as well. Uh, taking a look at the most recent annual report, we can understand why this is. So, uh, our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the second and fourth quarters. Our fiscal year, second quarter revenue is driven by corporate year end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers. And fourth quarter revenue is driven by the volume of multi-year on premise contracts executed during the period. And again, you can see consistent quarter on quarter growth in 2019 which is a great sign. And the last thing I want to look at regarding the company's income statements is a breakdown of each business segment. So we can better understand, uh, what is responsible for driving Microsoft's revenue growth. So Microsoft three business segments include productivity and business processes. Uh, intelligent cloud and more personal computing. Productivity and business processes is really driven by office, commercial and LinkedIn. Uh, more personal computing is driven by a Microsoft windows, Microsoft surface and gaming and intelligent cloud is driven by their cloud computing service called Azure. And you can take a look at year over year growth in both revenue and operating income. But the thing that I want to highlight here is the cloud segment of their business. Uh, as we can see, it led the way in the 2019 in terms of your, your growth, and that looks like it'll continue to be a great revenue driver for Microsoft into the future according to markets and markets.com the cloud computing market is projected to grow in excess of $600 billion by 2023 and for comparison in 2018, the market was at $272 billion. So because of projections like this, we can assume that the growth Microsoft is seeing in their intelligent cloud segment should continue to even possibly accelerate into the future as they are a leader in the space with their product. Azure, on the topic of their cloud business. Last October, the department of defense awarded Microsoft. It's Jedi cloud contract or otherwise known as the joint enterprise defense infrastructure cloud contract. The deal's worth up to $10 billion over the next 10 years. So it's absolutely massive and it allows Microsoft to provide cloud infrastructure services for the Pentagon's business. Uh, admission operations. The reason I bring this up is because both Microsoft and Amazon, arguably Microsoft's biggest competitor in the cloud space entered entered final bidding round after outbidding other competitors, including companies like IBM and Oracle. Microsoft ultimately won the deal, but Amazon challenged the deal in claim that the DOD, his decision was improperly influenced by president Trump who has publicly had disagreements with both Amazon and CEO Jeff basis in separately in the past, this basically led to a temporary injunction on the Jedi contract and Amazon also filed a lawsuit against the DOD to challenge the deal. Uh, in mid April, the DOD declared the officials who were rewarded the contract to Microsoft were not pressured by any senior leaders or the white house, but a federal judge then came in and warned the DOD that Amazon's legal challenge could still be successful if it was on, can provide proof that the Pentagon made any errors in its evaluation process. So the DOD basically said then said it needed more time to reconsider some aspects of the deal. And now the case has been delayed until August. So the reason I tell you all this is because while it's likely Amazon doesn't take the contract away from Microsoft, this contract is a game changer in the battle to dominate the cloud space. And if you're a shareholder or a future shareholder, this is absolutely something that you should keep an eye on. Okay. So moving on and taking a quick look at Microsoft's balance sheet. Let's go through it briefly. And there are a couple numbers specifically that I want to point out and keep in mind, all of the numbers on the sheet are in, uh, in millions. So for example, uh, this is actually 11 billion, 710 million. So just make sure to keep that in mind. Uh, and what I want to bring attention to specifically is first of all, total assets and total liabilities. Um, this is, this is important to know, uh, because the, the purpose behind this is to really give us an idea of the company's financial position. Now, more specifically, I want to look at total current assets and total current liabilities. Um, so if we, if we take current assets and current liability abilities, we can get an idea of the liquidity of the company, how easily there'll be able to pay off current liability. So we take her and assets, we divided by current liabilities and ultimately we get what's called the current ratio. And that is 2.904 and a good current ratio is anywhere between 1.2 to two. Typically two would mean that the business has two times more current assets and liabilities to cover its debts. A current ratio below one means the company doesn't have enough liquid assets to cover short term liability. So with the current ratio of 2.904, Microsoft is in great shape in that regard. And last year I want to take a look at a few valuation metrics from Microsoft and compare that to the rest of the sector. See how fairly valued they are. Uh, so starting off at the top of the current price, uh, for a Microsoft per share is $185 and 69 cents a market cap of 1.38 $9 trillion, which is absolutely massive. Beta of 0.95. And, and beta is really a measure of a stock's volatility in relation to the overall market. So the overall market has a beta of one and individual stocks are basically ranked according to how much they deviate from the market. So a stock that's more volatile is gonna have a, a rating that's higher than one and vice versa. So in Microsoft's case, 0.95, less than one, you know, this could be seen as a slightly less risky stock than the overall market. Earnings per share over the last 12 months is $6 per share, a PE ratio of 30.52. Um, and when it comes to PE ratio, this is, you know, one of the most common valuation metrics use a higher PE ratio typically shows that investors are willing to pay a higher share price because of growth expectations into the future. The average PE for the S and P 500, for example, is about 15. It's also important to compare this with the rest of the sector because some sectors have higher PE ratios than others. So in this instance, if we compare to the sector with, they're essentially right on par and we're not actually using the average sector software sector P ratio, we're actually using the median, um, which is basically means that 30.51 is right in the middle of all companies as opposed to taking the average by focusing on the medium P we can be assured that the valuation metric is not being skewed by individual outliers who might have like a, you know, a massively high PE ratio. Um, so as I mentioned, uh, sometimes you know, when the PE ratio is higher, it can be a sign that investors are willing to pay more for future growth. But one of the downsides of the PE ratio is that it doesn't take into consideration future growth. It only takes in to consideration current price and earnings. So if we want to factor in growth, we can look at the peg ratio. It's very similar, but like I said, takes in, takes, uh, takes growth, uh, the, the growth factor into account. So this basically is just eliminating one of the flaws of the PE ratio. Now, a peg ratio of below one indicates that the stock is more undervalued given future growth estimates. While a peg ratio of one author represents a pretty fairly valued company, anything over two typically is considered overvalued. So you can see in this case Microsoft is two points, two what the rest of the sec is 0.91. So based off of this ratio alone, we can, we could maybe assume that Microsoft is a bit overvalued. Um, and then I just want to hop down here to dividend yield, which is 1.13. Right now with a five year average dividend, you'll have 1.95. So I'm not quite at the five year average. Sometimes we can look at the five year average dividend yield and if uh, and then take a look at the dividend yield and um, if the dividend current dividend yield is much higher than the five year average dividend yield, we can maybe say, okay, um, share prices are down. Maybe it's a little undervalued right now, but that's not the case right here with Microsoft. Uh, and then the pair ratio is 32.33%, which is a great payout ratio. Uh, pick the payout ratio is basically the fraction of net income affirm pays or a company pays to its stockholders in dividends. The part of earnings that's um, not paid to investors via dividends is basically leftover for the company to invest and continue to grow the company. So we want to look for a parent ratios, typically under 50%, maybe under 60% depending on the company, but at 32%. That's a great ratio. We know they have plenty of leftover cash in order to continue growing the company and to make sure they're paying their dividends to shareholders and cover that payment. So if we hop down here to operating cashflow, we have free cashflow and then price per cash or a price, a price to cashflow. And this is another metric I want to highlight. Uh, currently the average price to cashflow for stocks in the S and P 500 for example is about 14, but, but similar to the PE ratio of value of less than 15 or 20 is generally considered pretty good. Um, it's really, it's really mostly especially useful for valuing stocks that have positive cashflow but are not profitable. Um, but I still think it's worth taking a look at, especially in this instance when there's, um, you know, a relatively substantial difference between the, the sector average and Microsoft's average, again telling us that Microsoft may be a little bit overvalued. Um, and then the last metric here I want to look at is revenue growth. As you can see compared to the rest of the sector, it's nearly double the rest of the software sector. So from a growth perspective in that regard, this is really great for Microsoft. So we know Microsoft is increasing revenue at a very healthy rate led by their cloud business. Operating margins are continuing to improve and they have a healthy balance sheet. So from a value perspective, I think Microsoft is probably slightly overvalued at this price, but I think it comes down to how you feel about the overall economy ultimately because from a growth and profitability perspective with increasing earnings in cashflow, the company is in fantastic shape. Now at the end of the day, Microsoft is a stock that I think every investor should own. It's that good of a company and ultimately if you're holding it for the longterm, it's going to keep going up in value, no doubt about it. And before we wrap up here, I just want to let you know that we bull is currently running a limited time promotion. Um, so when you sign up for an account with wee boy, you get a stock worth between $2 and 50 cents and $250. And if you make an initial deposit of at least a hundred dollars, you earn another free stock worth between $12 and $1,400. Now, when I did it, I got two shares of TTM technologies both worth $11. So $22 for free for just opening an account. So pretty cool, uh, offering from Weibull and for full transparency, I am affiliated with weebles. So if you use my link in the description to sign up, I may earn a small commission. If you're interested, all that info is down in the description below. With that, I am going to go ahead and wrap up the video here. I hope it was informative and if you have any questions that I'll make sure to drop me a comment down below. Also, give any stocks that you want me to do an analysis of, we're making video on, just let me know and I'll do my best to do that. And of course, don't forget to smash the like button if you liked the video, make sure to subscribe to the channel for more investing content. With that being said, I hope everybody has a great rest of the day. I appreciate you checking out the video and I'm looking forward to talking with you in the next one. 