 Of all the generals of the Mongol Empire, none stand taller than Subutai, who led armies from China, across Iran, the Caucasus, Russia, and into Eastern Europe. Yet, Subutai remains a murky figure, with difficult to access primary sources providing fertile ground for all manner of myths to grow instead. Utilizing the latest scholarship and medieval materials, we will paint for you a more accurate biography of one of history’s fiercest generals. Shoutout to Call of War for sponsoring this video! Call of War is a FREE online PVP Strategy game played by millions of users worldwide where you can rewrite the history of World War 2. You choose your country, join the war, fight other players in epic real-time battles, and conquer the world in challenging matches that take weeks to win! The game starts in a historically accurate World War 2 environment but it’s up to you to rewrite history as you want it! To win you have to use your strategic acumen, strengths and weaknesses of a wide variety of World War 2 units such as tanks, planes and ships. Choose your own strategy to dominate: tank rush your opponents, establish air superiority or bombard coastal cities! There is a research tree that allows the player to use atomic bombs and other weapons from World War 2. Build and empire by Win by waging war on your neighbours and getting into strategic alliances with other players. Call of War is fully Cross-Platform: you can play with the same account on PC or Mobile. Click on our link below to get 13,000 golds and 1 month of High Command Subscription for free, only available for 30 Days! 've set up a special game of Call of War for the first viewers who click the link in the description. To the website or app, search for "kings&generals", and enter the password "kings&generalskings&generals" to access the game Subutai, the most common form of his name on the internet, comes from the Chinese rendering of his name. Numerous transliterations of his name exist, but perhaps the best approximation of the Mongolian is Sübe’etei. The common epithet attached to his name, Ba’atar, signifies bravery and is often translated as hero or knight. Sübe’etei was born in 1176 to the Uriyangqat Mongols. Modern writers often confuse these nomadic pastoralists in the Mongolian steppe, with the Turkic Uriyangqai of the forests north of Mongolia who were reindeer herders. This has resulted in the common misconception that Sübe’etei was a Tuvan. However, the medieval sources clearly identify Sübe’etei as a man of the steppe, whose family herded sheep in close contact with Chinggis’ for five generations, a sublineage of the tribe Chinggis Khan belonged to. Sübe’etei’s learned to ride a horse, shoot a bow, hunt, and herd animals from a young age, the basic skills for steppe warfare. As a young boy he found a role model in Temujin. Around 1185 Temujin was elected as Khan of the Borjigon clan. Sübe’etei attended this meeting, accompanied by his brother Ca’urqan and cousin Jelme, and the young man attached himself to this rising warlord. In 1203, Temujin suffered a devastating setback: defeated in battle by his former allies he fled to Lake Baljuna. Slowly, his forces trickled in, among them Sübe’etei’s father Qaban, driving a flock of sheep to feed Temujin’s hungry men. As described in the Yuan shi, Qaban was captured by robbers. Sübe’etei and his brother Ca’urqan, followed the tracks and ambushed the robbers, killing several and sending the rest fleeing. Their father was rescued and they brought the sheep to Temujin. Temujin rewarded this loyalty: Ca’urqan was made a commander of 100, and Sübe’etei was enrolled into the keshig - the guard. By 1206, Temujin had unified Mongolia, becoming Chinggis Khan. Sübe’etei was among those rewarded. It was not without sacrifice, as his older brother had died in the fighting against the Naiman in western Mongolia. Sübe’etei was appointed to command a minggan, 1,000 men. His reputation as a ferocious warrior was already established, and he was noted among Chinggis Khan’s Four Dogs of War. Unlike Chinggis’s four Horses, who were Chinggis Khan’s personal friends, the Four Dogs were the deadliest of his warriors. To paraphrase the Secret History of the Mongols, the Four Horses were the men at Chinggis’ side, while the Four Dogs were those charging wherever the Khan pointed. Brutal, daring, often cruel, yet utterly loyal, the Four Dogs were Chinggis’ swords to wield against Asia. It was in this service that Sübe’etei would excel. Sübe’etei’s only mention in the first years of the war in China is in 1212, when he was the first on the walls of Huanzhou. He was richly rewarded, and for his courage he was called Ba’atar. Jebe Noyan went on a long ranging raid across the Jin Empire in 1213, through Manchuria, and took one of the Jin capitals, Tung-ching; Sübe’etei had possibly accompanied him on this campaign. By 1216 Chinggis Khan was in Mongolia dealing with rebellions, while Sübe’etei was to accompany Chinggis’ son Jochi far across the western steppes in pursuit of Merkits who had fled Mongolia. This was the Mongol Empire’s first great expansion west of the Altai Mountains. Before they set out, the Secret History of the Mongols has Chinggis provide Sübe’etei an iron reinforced cart for the journey. This statement may be the origin for the myth that Sübe’etei was immensely overweight, and that no single horse could carry him, requiring instead specially made carts! Such an image has no basis in the historical materials. In two battles over late 1218 and early 1219, Sübe’etei and Jochi defeated the Merkits and their Qangli allies. During the long trek back to Mongolia, the ruler of the vast Khwarezmian Empire, Muhammad II, intercepted them somewhere in central Kazakhstan. Jochi and Sübe’etei informed Shah Muhammad that they had no quarrel with him, but Muhammad had come looking for a fight, and drew his army up for battle. Outnumbered, the Mongols fought fiercely, the right wings of both armies pushing back the opposing left until darkness forced them apart. Lighting fires to make it appear they were setting up camp, the Mongols instead moved on. Still, horrified by the losses in this encounter, the shah developed a phobia of facing the Mongols in open battle. Jochi and Sübe’etei returned to Chinggis late in summer 1219, when news came of the infamous Otrar Massacre, during which the governor of Otrar, murdered the merchants sent by Chinggis. The khan immediately ordered Jebe, Jochi and Sübe’etei to set out with Chinggis to invade the Khwarezmian Empire. Shah Muhammad relied on city garrisons, believing the Mongols lacked siege capabilities. He was sorely mistaken. By spring 1220 the northern frontier of Khwarezm collapsed. Muhammad fled deeper into his empire, and Chinggis Khan unleashed Jebe and Sübe’etei after him. While Muhammad was their primary goal, as they went they took the submission of cities. Shah Muhammad was tracked to Hamadan, where Jebe and Sübe’etei lost his trail. We know that the Khwarezmian ruler later died of pneumonia. Jebe and Sübe’etei pinballed across the Caucasus and northwestern Iran over the next two years, razing and subduing cities, until mid-1222 when messages came from Chinggis Khan, with permission to attack the Kipchaks north of the Caucasus. Striking the enemy from unexpected directions was always a favourite ploy of Chinggis Khan, and the Kipchaks had already shown themselves as enemies by allying with the Merkits and fighting for the Khwarezm-shah. While passing north, Jebe and Sübe’etei took the city of Shamakhi, employing a particularly gruesome tactic; to mount the walls, corpses of locals and livestock were piled into a platform. Such tactics contributed to a dread reputation designed to discourage resistance. Upon exiting the Caucasus, they were confronted by a larger force of Alans and Kipchaks. They bribed the Kipchaks into abandoning the Alans, defeated the latter and then attacked the unsuspecting Kipchaks, killing their most powerful leaders. Survivors fled west under Kotjan Khan to the Rus, where the khan organized an alliance between his son-in-law, Prince Mstislav of Galicia, and several other Rus’ princes. Modern retelling often presents the following engagement on the Kalka River as a masterfully orchestrated plan, but historian Stephen Pow questions this narrative. Often overlooked is the lead up to the battle, where the Rus’ chronicles describe a Mongol general, Hamabek, being caught and killed. Pow argues that Hamabek is how the Rus’ interpreted Yama Beg, the Turkic form of Jebe’s name. Jebe was the senior officer and something of a mentor to Sübe’etei, who was now thrust for the first time into independent command thousands of kilometres from reinforcement. The famous nine day feigned retreat which followed may therefore have been an actual retreat. The Kipchak and Rus’ pursued, until Sübe’etei noticed they had strung themselves out. At the Kalka River in May 1223, Sübe’etei turned about and brought the full weight of his army against the leading Kipchaks, who broke. Fleeing Kipchaks collided with the Rus’, breaking their formation as Mongol arrows rained upon them. The result was a massacre. Survivors on a nearby hill briefly resisted before being convinced to surrender by Sübe’etei. With their guard dropped, most of the Rus’ were slaughtered and their leaders smothered under boards the Mongols feasted upon. Still, Sübe’etei was in no position for further conquest. On the return journey in late 1223 or early 1224, Sübe’etei’s forces passed through the territory of the Volga Bulghars, where the Mongols were ambushed, and many were killed. Sübe’etei had to limp back to Mongolia. Often termed as the Great Raid, this is a modern extrapolation and the contemporary sources present it as a failed conquest. The Secret History of the Mongols simply describes the entire campaign as “Sübe’etei Ba’atur was put in a difficult situation by these peoples.” Sübe’etei knew he would need to return in overwhelming force to complete the conquest. At that time Chinggis was preparing for the final campaign against the Tangut, but told Sübe’etei to visit his parents, who he had not seen in a decade. Sübe’etei simply responded, “If the emperor will be busy working and the vassal will be at rest, my heart will be in deep uneasiness.” He led the conquest of the Tangut in 1226, cutting off the western half of their Kingdom and sacking numerous counties along the Tangut-Jin frontier in Gansu, ensuring no aid would come from that direction. It was here that he learned of his master’s death in August 1227. Chinggis’ death must have crushed Sübe’etei, for he was the single most influential person in his life. Attending the coronation of Chinggis’ son Ogedai as Khan in 1229, Sübe’etei was rewarded with an imperial princess as a wife. Ogedai quickly resumed the war with the Jin Dynasty. An army commanded by Doqulqu was defeated at Dachangyuan in the beginning of 1230 and Ogedai led an army against the Jin accompanied by Tolui and Sübe’etei. With the Jin Dynasty’s northern border protected by the Yellow River and its southern by the neutral Song, access was through the mountains guarding Henan province’s west, a route blocked by the formidable Tongguan fort. Not desiring to be stuck in a long siege, Ogedai sent Sübe’etei to find a route through the hills to the south. Sübe’etei forced a smaller pass, ransacking towns in western Henan until his forces became spread out, and the Jin general Chenheshang cornered and defeated him at Daohuigu. Suffering heavy losses of both men and horses, Sübe’etei retreated to a furious Ogedai. The khan was so enraged he removed Sübe’etei from command, and nearly did Sübe’etei disappear from history if Ogedai’s brother, Tolui, did not vouch for him. A new strategy was decided on; a triple pronged assault along the Jin borders, wherein Tolui and Sübe’etei were to bypass Tongguan entirely, cutting south through Song territory to come out behind Jin lines. In late 1231 they penetrated the Song frontiers. After a few weeks of plundering they cut north into the Jin Empire. The lead Jin generals, Pu’a and Hada, skirmished with Tolui and Sübe’etei in early 1231, when the Mongols were surrounded on Sanfeng Mountain. When a snowstorm blew over the armies, Sübe’etei told Tolui to wait it out, as the hardy Mongols could endure it better than the Jin. After three days, deeming the Jin were suitably weakened, the Mongols charged down the hill and routed them. The captured general Hada asked for death, with his final wish to lay eyes on Sübe’etei. Perplexed when he heard of this, Sübe’etei came to see the captive Hada, telling him, “You will die momentarily. Why do you want to see me?” To which Hada replied, “Each of us vassals work for our respective masters. You are braver than other generals, and by nature you are a hero. Could that all really just be random chance? I have met you and now I shall die in peace.” Linking up with Ogedai’s army, Tolui and Ogedai returned north, leaving Sübe’etei as supreme commander. The general immediately invested the Jin capital, Kaifeng. It took a year for the city to fall, in which time the Jin Emperor escaped and many losses were inflicted on the Mongols. When Sübe’etei alerted Ogedai to the city’s final surrender in early 1233, he was prepared to carry out the standard practice of massacre for resisting. Ogedai was convinced by his adviser, Yelu Chucai, to spare the inhabitants. What followed is perhaps the most illustrative example of Sübe’etei’s personality. Sübe’etei was ordered to limit killing to just members of the Jin imperial family. He killed only who he needed to and allowed the rest north of the Yellow River to organize food shipments for the beleaguered population. Sübe’etei’s biographer in the Yuan shi goes as far as to say the people appreciated him for his efforts. Sübe’etei led the final push against the Jin, ending their dynasty in 1234. Back in Mongolia by 1235, Sübe’etei took part in the organization of the Great Western Campaign. He was the senior commander alongside the leading princes of the third generations of Chinggisids under Batu. Over 1236 they swallowed up the western steppe. From 1236-37, the Volga Bulghars, Kipchaks and Mordvins were subjugated. The divided Rus’ principalities were quickly picked off and from 1237 to 1240 the Rus’ cities were burned. Few cities lasted as long as two weeks, though Mongol losses were incurred. By the start of 1241, Sübe’etei and Batu had brought the Mongol Empire to the edge of Europe, splitting their forces to take multiple routes through Poland, Hungary and Transylvania. Sübe’etei wanted to draw the Hungarian Royal Army onto ground of his choosing, forcing them to cross an exposed bridge over the Sajo River, where on the far bank the treeline would hide flanking Mongol forces. King Bela IV foiled this by not crossing the bridge. The new plan was for Batu to force the bridge while Sübe’etei tried to cross downriver and outflank the Hungarians. Either impatient or due to Sübe’etei’s being behind the schedule, Batu charged the bridge too early, resulting in heavy losses and the Mongols being repulsed. A new plan was used; overcoming the bridge guard early on April 11th with catapults. The Mongols soon encircled and destroyed the Hungarians. Despite the success, some Mongol princes were apprehensive of pressing on after the costly fighting. But Sübe’etei shamed them for their cowardice, telling them, “If my lord wishes to retreat, then retreat by yourself. Until I reach Bacha city on the Danube River, I will never return.” The loyal Dog of Chinggis Khan had to whip his grandchildren into shape. They pressed onwards, pushing as far as Austria, until the Mongol withdrawal began at the end of March 1242. Finding their catapults and siege techniques ineffective against stout stone fortifications, Batu and Sübe’etei desired to step back and restrategize. The withdrawal from Hungary was methodical, campaigning as they went to reduce whoever survived the first pass. Sübe’etei stayed with Batu up to the Volga River, where in late 1243 the latter set his permanent encampment. Sübe’etei scolded Batu for refusing to attend the kurultai in Mongolia to elect Ogedai’s successor, but before departing, Sübe’etei and Batu came to peace regarding the losses at the battle of Mohi. In time, Batu gave thanks to Sübe’etei, attributing to him their successes. Sübe’etei was in Mongolia by 1246 to meet the new Khan of Khans, Ogedai’s son Guyuk. By then, Sübe’etei was one of the few left who had personally known Chinggis Khan. John de Plano Carpini, present at Guyuk’s enthronement, mentions the elderly Sübe’etei, a figure of immense respect among the Mongols. Later that year Sübe’etei went on his final campaign, a brief incursion against the Song Dynasty. Guyuk’s death in early 1248 ended this campaign prematurely, and Sübe’etei returned to Mongolia to finally retire from military service. He died later that year, somewhere along Tula River, aged 73. This most famous of all Mongolian generals, was one of the few to die of old age. His sons continued to serve as commanders, with the most well known being Uriyangqadai, who served Kublai Khan in China and occupied Thang-long, modern Hanoi in Vietnam. Uriyangqadai’s son Aju was another of Kublai Khan’s generals, but his descendants picked up the pen instead of the bow. Aju’s son Bolianjidai was an administrator well known for his leniency, while his own son Tongtong was a scholar and academic. After him, the lineage of Sübe’etei disappears from the sources. Utterly loyal to Chinggis Khan, almost no other commander in history travelled so many kilometres or participated in so many battles. Depending on how one counts, Sübe’etei fought in over 50 battles and sieges against almost every major power of the thirteenth century, though despite some claims, he was not undefeated. Sübe’etei had no care for administration or governance, only in carrying out the Khan’s will against his enemies. A man made for war, Sübe’etei played a key role in the establishment of history’s largest contiguous land empire. The sponsor of this video Call of War allows you to take command of your nation’s army during the darkest hours of human history: The Second World War. In this FREE online Strategy game, you get to fight up to 100 other players in Real-Time and rewrite the history of World War 2. To support our channel and download Call of War Click on my link below to get 13,000 golds and 1 month of High Command Subscription for free, only available for 30 Days! We will talk about Mongol history more in the coming weeks, so make sure you are subscribed to our channel and have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to our Patreon supporters and channel members, who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our merchandise via the link in the description. This is the Kings and Generals channel, and we will catch you on the next one. 