 NARRATOR: It is remembered as one of the pivotal battles of the Second World War, and the bloodiest in the history of the US Marine Corps. For 36 days, nearly 16,000 Marines and 20,000 Japanese engaged in a merciless fight to the death for just 7 and 1/2 square miles of godforsaken rock, sand and volcanic ash. The assault on Iwo Jima. Next on Dangerous Missions. [music playing] In February 1945, the remote Pacific island of Iwo Jima was being called the perfect battlefield-- a killing ground of unprecedented purity. Perfect because months before the invasion, the Japanese soldiers had evacuated the native inhabitants and civilian laborers, so there was no risk of innocent bystanders getting in the way. On Iwo Jima, it was warrior against warrior where everybody and every square inch was a target. CHUCK TATUM: My biggest concern was that I'd run out of luck, run out of chances. How many days can you stay there and not get killed? GENE TAPIA: You just have to take it as it comes. And if you're strong enough to stand it, you can stand it. If you're not strong enough, you're going to crack. TED SALISBURY: If you didn't get wounded, you were going to die. That's just about the size of it. There was no getting off the island without getting hit somewhere. NARRATOR: The battle for Iwo Jima really started months earlier on the airfields of the Marianas Islands of Saipan, Guam, and Tinian. By the end of 1944, hundreds of giant Boeing B-29 super fortresses, the state-of-the-art and strategic bombers were taking off from these island airstrips to bomb Japan. For each 11 men air crew, it was a grueling 15-hour, 3,000 mile round trip. Their only obstacle was Iwo Jima, a small island shaped like a pork chop about halfway to Japan. Japanese fighter planes based at the two airfields on Iwo, launched attacks on the American bombers. And a radar station atop Mount Suribachi, a 550 foot volcano at the southern tip, gave the Japanese homeland two hours warning of an impending bomber attack. The Air Force wanted Iwo Jima neutralized, and it was up to the Marines to do it. [suspenseful music] Codenamed Operation Detachment, the plan to invade Iwo Jima called for two divisions, the 4th and 5th Marine divisions to lead the assault and land along a two-mile long stretch of beach. The 3rd Marine Division, held in reserve, would follow up as soon as possible. Each division of 20,000 to 25,000 men had its own artillery, its own tanks, combat engineers, communications, and medical personnel. Collectively, this was a tough combat savvy landing force, as lethal and amphibious spearhead as the Marine Corps had ever fielded. On February 16, the Navy kicked off the attack with three days of heavy bombardment. On Monday, February 19 at 6:30 in the morning, the order was given to land the landing force. And the curtain rose on the Marine Corps greatest battle. LOUIE TORLONE: We thought it was going to be fast in and out, 'cause it wasn't that big. We were three divisions against 20,000 Japanese. We thought it was going to be a cakewalk. FELTON OWENS: I never saw so many ships in my life before or since. They were just all over the place, all kinds of ships. Everything that you could think of was in the water and very visible. GREG EMERY: Now you're only one of many landing craft that are going to hit that beach. You keep going in a circle as other landing craft join you in an ever widening circle. When that particular wave is completed, then it becomes no longer a circle but it stretches out in a straight line. And at a given signal, that wave heads toward the beach. [gunshots] [drums] MIKE MERVOST: From my landing craft, what I've seen was just a big mass of dust and clouds and everything like that. I said, there's no way that no one could lived through all of that. This is going to be a piece of cake. CHUCK TATUM: The Japanese had this supposed plan. They had all these drums of gasoline moored in the water. And when we got to certain places, they would explode this on the Amtraks coming in. And as a consequence of that, we were issued a white, protective screen, a cream that you put on your face. Kind of like Super Duty sun lotion, the way I would describe it now. And it was perfectly white. It's like quite clown makeup. Pretty soon all your buddies looked like Halloween ghoul. TED SALISBURY: We had a lot of replacements from other campaigns and this was our first time. And they were hot to trot. They wanted to get in there and do their thing, but the old guys, they knew it wasn't going to be easy. I was beyond being scared to go in there, but you got to go do what you gotta do. They trained you to do this, and there's no way you can back out. How are you going to tell the guys you're not going to go? TRUMAN PATTERSON: Everybody depends on everybody else. And you feel like you can depend on the guy on the right, on the left of you and behind you. And you want to make very sure you do not failed them. GENE TAPIA: We had never experienced this frontal assault business. We'd always had a jungle to work in or heels and whatnot. When we looked at what we were going into, your life just, you had to go right down into that cauldron and work on it. There was no other way. FELTON OWENS: You're so frightened that you tend to operate as if you are someone else. You fall back on the training, the discipline that you have been going through for the last few months. That's the fuel that keeps you going in the face of your fear. [suspenseful music] HERSHEL WILLIAMS: I dropped the front of the raft of Higgins boat and there's just Marines everywhere. There's equipment everywhere. Gear everywhere, scattered. It just looked like somebody had dropped a whole bunch of junk. [laughs] RICHARD BONNET: But I was thinking, this is a first and only landing I ever made in the Marine Corps. Both friendly and full that I didn't get my feet wet. That just rode a wave up there, and I just bounced out and I was dry and I'm thinking, boy, I'm not even wet this time. [laughs] TED SALISBURY: My first thought was, I don't know. Where can we go through this sand? [gunshots] You'd step and go up this ramp, and it's go up one step, and you go back down to half a step. And that-- what kind of an island is this? CHUCK TATUM: We talk about sand, but they weren't. They were volcanic crystals. And they didn't adhere to each other. They didn't compact or anything like that. That is like digging in a wheat bin, you know? [laughs] You dug in it, they would just fill back up. HERSHEL WILLIAMS: It's like walking on BBs. And trying to run in it was impossible. It got all over you. And it was sticky, you were sweaty. Just hot and sweaty and sweating everywhere. NARRATOR: Within 45 minutes, thousands of men, all sorts of vehicles, and tons of supplies jammed the beach. The Marines were met with only sporadic small arms and artillery fire. For a short while, it looked like the invasion would indeed be a cakewalk. [suspenseful music] [explosion] Then a little after 10:00 AM, the Japanese defenders opened up with all they had and turned the black sand beach into a butcher shop. [suspenseful music] Many Marines that came ashore on Iwo Jima on D-day, February 19, 1945 expected that the island could be taken in about a week, but their optimism abruptly vanished under an intense artillery and mortar barrage. The Marines had underestimated the Japanese defenders and their commander, General Tatamichi Kuribayashi. With 30 years of distinguished service to his emperor, Kuribayashi accepted his new assignment to organize the defense of Iwo Jima in May 1944 as nothing less than a death sentence. Shortly after arriving on the island, he wrote home to his wife, do not plan for my return. [suspenseful music] For the next nine months, Kuribayashi's men dug miles of underground tunnels to link hundreds of hidden gun emplacements, caves, pillboxes, and command posts. The Japanese had turned Iwo Jima into one giant fortress. The Marines didn't know about the tunnels, and they also didn't know that Kuribayashi had told his men that it was their duty to kill 10 Marines before dying. Each Japanese soldier, he said, should think of his defense position as his graveyard. Gene Tapia was 20 years old and had never been in combat. GENE TAPIA: Noise is contagious in a real battle. Noise of some type screaming, hollering, orders being flashed around, cannons going off, mortars exploding all around. From a fire popping off about your ears, but you learn quick. Get your butt down as low as you can and try to hang on to your hat. And your officer tell you, sic 'em! That's what you do. You go sic 'em. NARRATOR: Richard Bonnet was 21 when he landed on Iwo. This was his third Pacific invasion. RICHARD BONNET: Mortars never put forward. They were just coming down somewhere all the time. Sometimes real heavy, maybe they let up a little and down, they would come. Around ship like it had an earthquake. There was so much firing going on. NARRATOR: Truman Patterson was 18, and a mortar man. TRUMAN PATTERSON: It's not a question in your mind. Are you going to get a bullet? You know in your heart. It's just not a question of if, but when. NARRATOR: Alvin Dunlap was 19 and a rifleman. ALVAN DUNLAP: The shells are firing all over. The fragments are coming from any direction. If your buddy gets killed and you don't, well, it's not your fault. It's just the luck of the cards or whatever. Of course everybody, I think, feels that it's going to be the other guy. It's not going to be me. It tries you on that you think, OK, we're in this, and so on. And I know I'm going to come out of it, but I'm not so sure about you. NARRATOR: One of the thousands of Marines fighting to get off the beach was a 29-year-old Gunnery Sergeant named John Basilone. His friends called him Manila John, and he was the pride of the Marine Corps. Three years earlier in 1942, on Guadalcanal, the New Jersey native single-handedly stopped a Japanese attack with his 30 caliber machine gun. For that, he received the Medal of Honor and was ordered back to the States for a morale boosting bond tour. Sergeant John Basilone, I'm very happy to welcome you, the first enlisted Marine to receive the Congressional Medal of Honor. And we're very proud to have you in New York City. Can you tell us something about how you happened to get this medal? You must have mauled them down. Yes, sir. I was in a good outfit with good men. I just happened to be there, and anyone would have done the same in my place. Spoken just like a Marine. NARRATOR: The Marines offered to make Basilone an officer, but he refused. He wanted to rejoin his unit. And on February 19, Gunnery Sergeant John Basilone was back in action on Iwo Jima. For many other Marines like Chuck Tatum, an 18-year-old machine gunner, the assault on Iwo was their first experience under enemy fire. CHUCK TATUM: Now everybody else, including myself was attempting to dig to China with their hands. [laughs] And I looked back, and here's a guy standing up, walking on the beach. And I'm thinking, Jesus, [inaudible].. And I realized it's Basilone. And the people who stopped never even got to the terraces, kicking him saying, get up or you're going to die on the goddamn beach. Get going. NARRATOR: Chaos reigned. A Japanese field gun hidden in a bunker had pinned down the Marines. I can see the muzzle of a field piece shooting down the beach into the fourth Marines. And Basilone gave me the signal. I started firing at it. And of course, they slammed the steel doors closed. Somewhere, Basilone found a demolition man. NARRATOR: Basilone ordered the Marine with a satchel of explosives to knock out the bunker, and directed Tatum to lay down covering fire. CHUCK TATUM: Whenever the guy got to the right place, Basilone whacked me on the head, on the helmet to cease fire. So I quit. And this guy runs with this 10 pound charge of Composition C2, and he throws it the aperture of this fields. Of course, 10 pounds of C2 could open up anything. So it blew the doors off of this block house. And then Basilone gives me the signal to commence firing again. And he's kneeling down beside me, and then he sends a guy up with a flamethrower. The demolition guy with the flamethrower goes in, gives it a couple of squirts of that deadly napalm into the aperture of the field beach. I'm thinking, Jesus Christ, I've only been here an hour and this is really exciting, dangerous. And Then Basilone stood up a straddle off my body. I'm laying down on the sand firing, and he reaches down. And he unhook what's called a pinhole hook, which leaches the gun from the tripod. And he leaned over and screamed in my ear, get the belt! And he grabbed the machine gun. He started running up this area leading to where the gun housing was, and if we get to the top of this rig that metaphor this area, the Japanese start running out of the back, and they're got this napalm all over them on fire, and he takes a machine gun as they run out he shoots them all. And they just fall dead. And that was our first experience in combat. And he gave them a signal, follow me. He started leaving this across the island. NARRATOR: Basilone led a charge toward the first airstrip. He ordered the men to take cover in a shell crater and hold the ground. He then headed back to the beach for reinforcements. And we look across the area that we just came across, I can see it's Basilone. We can see all of a sudden a mortar shell that's among them. And kill Basilone and five other Sea Company Marines. So he was dead within the first hour and a half. America's hero. NARRATOR: Later, Sergeant Basilone's bloodstained haversack was found on the battlefield, a poignant reminder of every marine's mortality. I thought, boy, nobody-- [laughs] don't count on anything. Anyone's game here, you could be go in a flash. NARRATOR: By the end of the day, Marines from the 5th division had crossed the narrow neck of the island and reached the Western shore. Men of the 4th division were fighting in the rocks and gullies along the right flank. They had succeeded in cutting off Mt. Suribachi from the rest of the island. With reinforcements from the 3rd Division already on the way, the Marines consolidated their positions, dug in, and braced for a Japanese suicidal banzai attack that they thought was sure to come. By the end of the first day of the invasion, it was clear to the Marines that taking Iwo Jima 7 and 1/2 square miles of dirt, rock, and volcanic ash was not going to be easy. On D-day, the Marines had counted 566 of their men killed, and another 1755 wounded. As for the Japanese defenders, the Marines had no idea how many they might have killed or wounded. The well hidden underground tunnels allowed the Japanese to strike suddenly and then disappear undetected. The Marines couldn't see their enemy, but they could hear. RICHARD BONNETT: That first night, the island was shaking. And I can remember hearing this rumble underneath us like a dog on a train of some kind. And they were pushing their goal from winning the island to the other underneath. What they were doing, I guess the whole animal cares listen. That's all we really realized, boy, they're down there somewhere. We found out real quick that they weren't on top of the ground. NARRATOR: Ted Salisbury was an 18-year-old squad leader and a rifleman looking for a target. TED SALISBURY: You didn't see too many of them, and you didn't see too many places where they could fire from. But they had them places pretty well camouflaged. We just hope they didn't have you lined up in their sights. NARRATOR: Greg Emery was a 19-year-old Navy corpsman, a medic assigned to a Marine rifle company. GREG EMERY: The rule throughout that whole battle was that night we did not move. If somebody moved above ground at night, we stood a pretty good chance of getting shot by one of your own men. CHUCK TATUM: We expected the banzai charge. In fact we got set up for it. because we knew they'd done this all the time before, and it'd be a banzai charge that night. There wasn't one. They didn't do that. They changed their tactics. I was really relieved to wake up the next morning and find I was still alive. [laughs] NARRATOR: At sunrise, the Marines dressed their attack on Mt. Suribachi. Their heavy artillery opened fire at point blank range on the 500-foot volcano. Amphibious trucks called ducks have brought their heavy guns ashore and across the soft sand. The crews unloaded the guns out in the open, exposed to Japanese snipers. Louis Torlone was a 19-year-old corporal and a gunner, part of a 10-man howitzer crew. The way we had it rigged up to do was we had an a frame on the back of one of the ducks. And you had the backup that duck with A-frame against a duck with a half circle and use a three-point sling to pick the howitzer up. And then when you took the howitzer up out of the duck, the duck pulled out underneath the howitzer. And you set the howitzer down the ground and all at the same time we were getting sniper fire, machine gun fire. [gunshots] NARRATOR: The 105 millimeter howitzer had a range of nearly seven miles. From their gun pits, the crews could hit just about any place on the island. LOUIE TORLONE: The thing that impressed me was our rate of fire on our artillery. The 105 Howitzer manual says 105 Howitzer rate of fires, three rounds a minute. One morning we fired 50 round barrage in 10 minutes. The thing we had to be real careful about as a front line move forward was walking wounded. They would put tags on these walking wounded, most of them were battle fatigues, and you could see 'em wandering around. They couldn't follow the trail back. We had to stop and go after him and lead them by hand get them behind us. The word would come down, have this gun coop since I made it down, pick up the rations for the gun crew. I started to go down, pick up our rations, but we got a fire mission. So we and the gun had to stay there, and I sent David Gonzalez down to pick up the rations. He went down, pick up the rations, started back towards the gun, pit and a mortar landed almost beside of him. In time, the guys went out and checked on him, he was already dead. So we wrapped him up in a poncho and stuck him out on the road where the ambulance jeep come by and pick up dead. We still had the fire mission. Every time we'd fire, the concussion that Howitzer made the poncho stand up. and I thought, sure, he was trying to stand up, trying to get up and I almost lost it there. [drums playing] NARRATOR: In the midst of the battle, Alvin Dunlap exhausted from the continuous fighting, stopped to help some forward observers spot a hidden sniper. ALVAN DUNLAP: So, I bought a binoculars and searched the area for the sniper, and I found the pillbox. It was was actually a machine gun that was spitting out a few rounds at a time. That's when one of those forward observers went around and took my picture when I was there with them. And I thought, well, the guy's taking my picture at the wrong time with my mouth open. [laughs] It was on the cover of the magazine the Army magazine. And it's calling the range. I wasn't calling any range. I was yawning. Army They called it something else, but I was really yawning. I mean that's a good sign that I wasn't getting enough sleep. [laughs] NARRATOR: By D-Plus 3, the Marines had encircled Mt. Surabachi. Artillery, tanks, and other weapons relentlessly slammed its jagged face. On the morning of D-Plus Friday, February 23, the Marines prepared to climb Surabachi. A 40-man detachment from the 28th Marine Regiment, part of the 5th Marine Division, carefully snaked its way to the summit. A Marine Staff Sergeant Louie Lowery, a photographer for Leatherneck magazine, accompanied the patrol. They reached the rim of the crater by about 10:00 AM. At 10:20, they raised a small flag. The first foreign flag ever to fly over Japanese soil. Photographer Lowery documented the moment. Private Hershel Williams was on the beach when he caught a glimpse of the stars and stripes. HERSHEL WILLIAMS: All of a sudden, people jumped up and started firing their rifles into the air and yelling and screaming and just going wild. And the boats and ships out here in the bay are firing and blowing their horns and whistles and all that sort of thing. NARRATOR: A second larger flag was put up to replace the smaller one. A Marine combat cameramen Sergeant Bill Genaust captured the action on 16-millimeter Kodachrome movie film. Standing next to Genaust, a civilian still photographer working for the Associated Press named Joe Rosenthal snapped the shutter of his large format speed graphic camera. Rosenthal's picture of indomitable Marines raising the stars and stripes boosted the morale of a war weary American public. But for the grunts fighting in the shadow of Suribachi, the sight of an American flag fluttering in the brisk breeze had a more practical meaning. CHUCK TATUM: It meant immediately to me that we wouldn't be shot at from both sides. This strip of land we ran there now had removed the menace from one side of it. GREG EMERY: I remember especially at night lying in my foxhole or lying in the shell hole, Mount Suribachi took on an almost human presence. Like it was staring down at us, and it was a frightening feeling. So it meant a lot to me when the flag went up and I realized Mt. Surabachi Is ours, and it's not going to be staring down on me anymore. A lot of people believe that the flag raising signified the capture of Iwo Jima when indeed it was only the capture of Mt. Surabachi. You might say the worst laid ahead of us. NARRATOR: Of the six men, the five Marines and one Navy corpsman, immortalized in Rosenthal's image, only three would survive the battle. Even Sergeant Genaust, the 38-year-old Marine cameraman, will be killed nine days later while helping rifleman clear a cave on the north side of the island. The Marines had taken Suribachi but in many ways, the assault on Iwo Jima had just begun. On February 23, 1945, while five Marines and one Navy corpsman hoisted the stars and stripes atop Iwo Jima's volcanic cone, other Marines were fighting for their lives against the tenacious enemy. [suspenseful music] [gunshot] [shouts] Hershel Williams was a 20-year-old farm boy from Quiet Dale, West Virginia. He was a corporal trained to operate the 70 pound M2 flamethrower. Anytime that you fire that you always had smoke, because diesel fuel has black smoke associated with it. So anytime that you fire the weapon, you wanted to think ahead and say, well, as soon as I fired I want to move over here or over there because it gave away where you were. So you were taught fire and move. Fire and move. Find another hole someplace. We were trying not to fire the thing all at one time. Just don't go up there and open it up and let it go, because you've got about 70 seconds of this stuff. So we were trying to fire in two and three second blasts. NARRATOR: As the Marines move toward the center of the island, Williams outfit ran smack into a line of Japanese gun emplacements called pillboxes. HERSHEL WILLIAMS: And when we were trying to break through this reinforced line of pillboxes, we were losing men very, very rapidly. The company commander and what Lieutenants he had left we're having a meeting. They were trying to figure out some strategy to get through those pillboxes. That's when I was asked if I thought I could do anything about those pillboxes. So I strapped on a flamethrower and tried going toward the pillboxes. My lieutenant said to four other Marines, go with him and give him protection. And their job basically was as I'd try to crawl up to a pillbox is to fire in the aperture to try to keep the Japanese from looking out or firing out of that pillbox. NARRATOR: For four hours Williams worked his way along the line of pillboxes. Sometimes crawling within feet of the enemy emplacements. When he emptied one flamethrower, he crawled back for another and continued his fiery attack. HERSHEL WILLIAMS: Out of around the corner of the pillbox, there came a group of Japanese. And I can remember seeing them. They got their bayonets. They've got rifles, and they're coming at me with fixed bayonets. And I'm lying there on the ground just a few yards away. And I just got up and had it, opened up the flamethrower. And a great big ball of orange flame hit them. I can remember their movement. They were coming, charging as hard as I could charge. And all of a sudden, they're slowing down. And they get slower, and they just fall off. And they're dead. It's terrible stench. Just terrible. NARRATOR: Williams knocked out the seven pillboxes, and his battalion continued its advance across the island. For his bold and conspicuous gallantry, the West Virginia farm boy later received the Medal of Honor. By D-plus 5, 1,034 Marines had died, 3,741 were wounded, and 558 were taken out of action due to battle fatigue. But, despite the heavy losses the Marines had managed to secure Mount Suribachi and the two airfields. They had cleared the way for the Navy's construction battalions, the Seabees, to repair the runways in case any crippled B-29 needed to make an emergency landing as they returned from bombing raids over Japan. As the battle turned north, the Marines encountered a line of Japanese defenses called the Meat Grinder. Progress was slow and painful. Felton Owens was 20 and a machine gunner. FELTON OWENS: We would move sometimes as little as 50 yards, and we would be stopped by enemy fire. You keep going, because you're supposed to. You going, because you've been trained to. You keep going, because you have your buddies on the left and on the right. CHUCK TATUM: Every day, you had to just gather up your courage and go, because there's no way you're going to let these guys down. There's no way you're going to flake out on him or not go. When they say, saddle up, you got ready to go. RICHARD BONNETT: Our company went from 332 we had when we went to Iwo, down to 12 in the first 15 days. In one 36-hour period, we lost six different company commanders and all of our other officers. NARRATOR: The assault on Iwo Jima was the fourth invasion for 21-year-old Mike Mervost. When he landed, he was a platoon Sergeant. When his superior officers were killed or wounded, he found himself in command. MIKE MERVOST: Here, I was a company commander of C company, I had a little more than 50 men. 230 of us plus landing on the island, and we had roughly 50 men left. NARRATOR: Replacements, many inexperienced men fresh out of boot camp, were brought forward to fill the depleted ranks. MIKE MERVOST: I didn't even get to know their names, and they became casualties. And we had something like 70, 80 replacements. I felt remorse at that time, what have you. But I felt more angry. I-- angry. And I showed that to my troops. And I'm really angry. Peeled. You know what I mean? And I want to blow up their encourage, especially these replacements. NARRATOR: The veteran fighters kept their distance from the newcomers. CHUCK TATUM: I didn't want anymore friends. I didn't dislike them or anything, and but they came up as ammo carriers. And I didn't want to know anything about their girlfriend. I didn't want to see their mother or pictures of anybody. I didn't want to lose them like you lost other people. NARRATOR: On March 4th, D-plus 13, during a rare lull in the fighting, the Marines watched a B-29 super fortress land at Airfield number one. The bomber had developed mechanical problems on a raid over Tokyo. For the aircrew, Iwo Jima meant salvation. The bloody sacrifices made by the Marines were beginning to pay dividends. Three weeks into the assault on Iwo Jima, the 60,000 US Marines had pushed what remained of General Kuribayashi by defense force into the rugged cliffs, gullies, and ravines on the northern tip of the island. [suspenseful music] By now, the outcome seemed inevitable. But the general and his loyal warriors showed no signs of surrendering. [boom] [gunshots] Bitter and bloody fighting continued. The only solace the Marines found on Iwo came from knowing that a corpsman was always close by. Although technically Navy personnel, corpsmen were assigned to Marine companies. And for all intents and purposes, they were Marines. Like the Army's medics, corpsman would stop bleeding, dress wounds, apply splints, call for stretchers, and see that their wounded men reached the aid station. GENE TAPIA: I've seen them crawl to help wounded people, facing almost certain death. It takes some kind of bravery to go work on a wounded man knowing that a sniper has just put him down over there. And you're going to go back right in that same situation. You're talk about bravery now. That's it. NARRATOR: Navy corpsman Greg Emery fought to save lives during some of the toughest battles on Iwo. You know what your duty is. You know what's expected of you. You're not going to let your buddies down. You're not going to let your Marines down. You're part of a team. NARRATOR: All too often, the men were beyond treatment with what he carried in his medical kit. GREG EMERY: And I know those cases. All you can do is give them a few comforting words, tell them that boy, you're lucky. It could have been a lot worse, but you're going to be all right. We're going to get you out of here. That's all you can say. Be as comforting as you can. And if you have to lie to them, so you lie to them. HERSHEL WILLIAMS: It still rattles around in my mind where our guy would get hit, and he would yell, corpsman. Just a bagging kind of a plea. It wasn't a command, like, corpsman come here! Or that, I'd say. It would be a plea, come. And he's show up. NARRATOR: Marines reported that English speaking Japanese soldiers would shout, corpsman in hopes of luring the medics into an ambush. Some front line Marines foiled the Japanese trick by shouting a code name instead of corpsman. CHUCK TATUM: Tallulah Bankhead, I guess, was a famous Broadway singer actress at that particular time. So they used her name to call for a corpsman, because the Japanese couldn't pronounce the Ls very well, apparently. And I call for the corpsmen, Tallulah. He came over there to where this guy is. And I said, Jesus, look. And he's looking at him and he starts crying. And I said, what's wrong? He said, I can't fix anybody else. I can't look at any more blood, he said. I'm through with this. I'm never going to do this again, he said. And he just-- and I tried to comfort him, and he was crying, sobbing. And somebody hollered out, Tallulah. And he hears it. He jumps up and grabs his bag and runs to the next thing. Angels and dungarees. NARRATOR: 23 doctors and 827 corpsmen were killed on Iwo Jima. And of the 27 medals of honor awarded during the battle, four the recipients were Navy corpsman. [soft music playing] [suspenseful music] [gunshots] On March 26, D plus 35 in one last ditch attack, the remaining Japanese emerged from their caves and bunkers and rushed the airfield. In a desperate melee, the attackers were annihilated. The next day, the battle for Iwo Jima was declared over. And the exhausted Marines headed back to the beaches. They turned over the island to an Army Infantry Regiment and prepared to board waiting transport ships. GENE TAPIA: We were used up. We were wrong out. There were no more left, but you have a day or sort of rest. And it makes a lot of difference. And then you start thanking your maker. GREG EMERY: My ship and other ship had to take some of the wounded aboard. Three of our Marines have died, and so it was necessary to bury them over the side. And that was one of the saddest moments of my life, to be there while three bodies were placed over the [inaudible] on board, covered with an American flag. And at the signal, the bodies slide out from under the flags and into the ocean. Taps are sounded as a rifle salute. There was not a man topside that morning that did not have tears in their eyes. It would be impossible not to cry. NARRATOR: What had been assumed would be a straightforward assault turned into the most desperate and most costly battle in the history of the US Marine Corps. You know? 5,885 Marines were killed, and 17,272 were wounded. LOUIE TORLONE: Why them? Not me. Why them and not somebody else? Was at their turn to go? Maybe a man upstairs could answer, but I can't. You know? I'm just thankful I'm here in the shape I'm in. TED SALISBURY: There isn't a day goes by that I don't think of some of my boys, you know? I know their names just like it's yesterday. I guess you never get over that. HERSHEL WILLIAMS: It saddens me that it was necessary to make that type of a sacrifice to preserve the freedom that others had given to us. NARRATOR: When asked if the assault on Iwo Jima was worth it, the veterans often cite a remarkable statistic. On March 4th 1945 when the first B-29 landed in distress on Iwo until the end of the war, more than 2,200 bombers made life saving emergency landings on the island. That's about 24,000 men who would have otherwise crashed and perished at sea had it not been for the sacrifices and the valor of the US Marines. [epic music playing] 