 Unknown: I think that anything that we can do to put AI ethics in, in the mainstream and on everybody's radar is important. I'm here today with the head of artificial intelligence at the World Economic Forum Kay Firth Butterfield. Thank you for joining us, Kay. I'm very excited and honored to have you and glad that you were able to make time for us to have this discussion. So the objective of this of this webinar today is to educate our audience and stakeholders on the importance of ethics and AI, and then give them some actionable takeaways to enable them to operationalize ethics in their organizations. What we really need is not a course on ethics for computer scientists. We need this embedded, throughout the education, so that it's not a, oh gosh, it's of course I could blow off or it's, you know, not as important as my computer science studies. It has to be integrated. So that as they come into companies like yours, and start working at every stage, it's it's in their brain. And I think we can only really succeed in dealing with some of the problems like bias, for example, if we have proper training, and integrated training, what we're doing at the moment, a forum is really looking at operationalizing because it's now used as talking about these high level principles and not giving companies like yours, which are obviously ahead in the ethics stakes, ideas of how to actually go on and make this much more robust and better for the world. So a projects that we do out of the out of any of these offices has to be scalable globally, because that's our mandate to create global governance with a small g. It's not government, that governance, which include self governance. And, and so the, the toolkit came out of that. So we say to board members, you know, you might time just to read two things, read one in your discipline area, and then read the ethics module. Boards of directors are the ones who have a clear judiciary duty to oversee these companies. And so even if the company's not thinking about it, there are enough stabbing season, board members who should know better. What I think what you demonstrate with your work is really it's just as simple as that, asking the right questions Hypergiant's objective is to deliver on the future we were promised for technology and to use AI in that way, kind of my role is to define what's right and wrong for us, and how it is that consistent with that vision and then how we can operationalize within each use case in a way that the outcomes are what we intend consistent with a brighter future as opposed to a more negative future. And the one reason why I've been attracted to your thought leadership is because I do appreciate the fact that the the objective is to get things done. Bottom line is if you get it wrong, it will be really bad for your brand. And you know, that takes us back to the tech lash debate where we're already seeing some of this come up. Top line is that this is about the way that we design a future and the future that we want to have, I just love your work I learned from it. And I honestly believe that it's making the world a better place. So I thank 