 Hey guys, Zac here from dreamofenglish.com the place for English videos on grammar, vocabulary, and idioms, which is exactly what we are going to look at today. We're going to see some idioms, proverbs, expressions that are very common in both spoken English and written English. However, we need to remember that idioms tend to be very informal; therefore, we wouldn't use them in academic English, both written and spoken. Okay, so this is much more common in informal English. Now, what is an idiom or a proverb? Well they are expressions whereby the meaning is not always literal. Okay, so you need to learn these expressions in context, otherwise, you're just going to get very confused especially with some of them. Okay, there are lots of these idioms in the English language, so I have just created a list of 26, which will be from A to Z. Okay, so we're going to look at an idiom for each letter of the alphabet. We will do this across three different videos, so in this video let's look at some idioms from A to I. You ready? Well, let's go. A, the first idiom, actions speak louder than words. Now, this basically means that what you do is more important than what you say. So, let's imagine that I'm your boss and I could say, I've been waiting for this project for weeks now, you keep telling me it's ready but actions speak louder than words. Meaning, I want to see it, okay, do it, show me, don't just tell me. B, break a leg. Now remember when I say that these idioms aren't literal. Well, this one break a leg means good luck. Right?! That doesn't make sense, surely break a leg is something which is unlucky. But, if I were to say, go out there, this is your moment to shine, break a leg. I'm basically saying, good luck, do your best. Curiosity killed the cat, this is an old proverb that basically means, being curious can get you into trouble. So, maybe I could say, stop asking so many questions. Be careful, curiosity killed the cat and in fact this proverb has another part which is less known, but satisfaction brought it back. So, curiosity killed the cat but satisfaction brought it back. Dark horse, so for a dark horse, this is, maybe, a candidate okay or a competitor of which little is known, little is expected of them, but they triumph, they succeed, they win. They are a dark horse. I could say the ex-mayor of this small city could be a dark horse to win this year's presidential election. So, every cloud has a silver lining, basically there is hope in even the most difficult and challenging situations. Like now for example, with everything that is happening around us at least we have seen a shift in air quality and air pollution, for the better. So, every cloud has a silver lining. Face the music, if you have to face the music, it means you have to confront an unpleasant consequence of your own actions. Maybe, you got very angry and you sent your boss an email criticizing him or her and afterwards, you think well, the email has been sent so I guess I just have to face the music. Okay, so let's continue with three more idioms to complete today's video. Letter g, get bent out of shape. This means to get angry, to get frustrated. Okay, so maybe I could say, ah I'm getting all bent out of shape over that last comment. I'm getting angry about it. Hang in there, hang in there basically means, don't give up, stay persistent. With all of these difficulties right now it's important that we hang in there. And finally for letter I, it takes two to tango, which means both parties involved in a situation, in an argument are responsible. So I could say, don't blame her, it takes two to tango. Meaning both of you are equally responsible. Got it? so there are some idioms which as I said are very important to be able to speak more naturally. I will make two more videos to finish this list of idioms. So make sure you check it out. I also post daily idioms on my Instagram account, dream.of.english so go take a look, but otherwise, like, subscribe, and I'll see you next time. Bye. 