 We believe that AI has immense potential to move the  needle on societal and environmental issues, and at Google.org with Launchpad and with our partners across Google, we’ve been working on that through this $25 million open call that we held last year. Those 20 organizations have spent the last 9 months working on their projects, making amazing progress through the  Launchpad Accelerator. The idea about today though is getting everyone to know  about your ideas and your impact. For you to get to know each other’s work and for the people who are here today, in this audience, to be part of this journey together. Bad infomation can promote hate. It damages people’s health and it hurts democracy. We’ve developed a model that identifies claim-like statements. This project really can make a dramatic difference. People are seeing that really cutting-edge technology is being applied in social sectors in a way that we haven’t seen even in some market industries. For the vast majority of them, the deaf new-born child is the very first deaf person that the parents have ever met. For the first time she was able to say,  “You are my son and I love you.” Just to hear from a broad range of perspectives about how AI is being used and the ways in which they’re negotiating transparency, privacy and other considerations that we should  all be grappling with. The destruction of forests is almost a fifth of all the carbon emissions every year. Up to 90% of all the logging in the rainforests is illegal. This is actually the point at which we started using TensorFlow, an AI platform, to be able to pick out the sounds of chainsaws. I think it’s critical for us to know what the possibilities are and how these tools might be used and incorporate that into our own thinking and planning. People think that social-change organizations should go slow. We should actually move fastest. These are the world’s biggest problems, we deserve the best technology and the best people. This is really a moment for all of us to come together. Not just make incremental change on these huge challenges to humanity, but actually shift the curve and deliver solutions. 