BUSINESSOverviewMaxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim Integrated” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of customers in diverse geographical locations. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by diverse applications, numerous product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. Our objective is to develop and market both proprietary and industry-standard analog integrated circuits that meet the increasingly stringent quality and performance standards demanded by customers.We are a Delaware corporation originally incorporated in California in 1983. The mailing address for our headquarters is 160 Rio Robles, San Jose, California 95134, and our telephone number is (408) 601-1000. Additional information about us is available on our website at www.maximintegrated.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report.We have a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 were each 52-week fiscal years.  We make available through our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also use our Investor Relations website at www.maximintegrated.com/company/investor as a routine channel for distribution of other important information, such as news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by applicable laws. A copy of this Annual Report is available without charge and can be accessed at our website at www.maximintegrated.com/company/investor. The Mixed Signal Analog Integrated Circuit MarketAll electronic signals generally fall into one of two categories, linear or digital. Linear (or analog) signals represent real world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, or speed, and are continuously variable over a wide range of values. Digital signals represent the “ones” and “zeros” of binary arithmetic and are either on or off.Three general classes of semiconductor products arise from this distinction between linear and digital signals:•digital devices, such as memories and microprocessors that operate primarily in the digital domain; •linear devices, such as amplifiers, references, analog multiplexers and switches that operate primarily in the analog domain; and •mixed-signal devices such as data converter devices that combine linear and digital functions on the same integrated circuit and interface between the analog and digital domains.Our strategy has been to target both the linear and mixed-signal markets, often collectively referred to as the analog market. However, some of our products are exclusively or principally digital. While our focus continues to be on the linear and mixed signal market, our capabilities in the digital domain enable development of new mixed signal and other products with highly sophisticated digital characteristics. We operate in one reportable segment - the design, development, marketing and manufacturing of a broad range of linear and mixed signal integrated circuits. Our linear and mixed signal products serve five major end-markets, Automotive, Communications and Data Center, Computing, Consumer, and Industrial. These major end-markets and their corresponding market are noted in the table below:4MAJOR END-MARKETMARKET  AUTOMOTIVEInfotainment Powertrain Body Electronics Safety & Security  COMMUNICATIONS & DATA CENTERBasestationsData Center Data Storage Network & Datacom Servers Telecom Other Communications  COMPUTINGDesktop Computers Notebook Computers Peripherals & Other Computer  CONSUMERSmartphones Digital Cameras Handheld Computers Home Entertainment & Appliances Mobility & Fitness Wearables Other Consumer  INDUSTRIALAutomatic Test Equipment Control & Automation Electrical Instrumentation Financial Terminals Medical Military & Aerospace Security Utility & Other Meters Other IndustrialProduct QualityBased on industry standard requirements, we conduct reliability stress testing on the products we manufacture and sell. Through this testing, we can detect and accelerate the presence of defects that may arise over the life of a product. We employ a system addressing quality and reliability of our products from initial design through wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and final shipment. We have received ISO 9001/2, TS 16949 and ISO 14001 certifications for all wafer fabrication, assembly, final test and shipping facilities. ManufacturingWe primarily utilize third party foundries as well our own wafer fabrication facilities for the production of our wafers. The broad range of products demanded by the analog integrated circuit market requires multiple manufacturing process technologies. As a result, many different process technologies are currently used for wafer fabrication of our products. Historically, wafer fabrication of analog integrated circuits has not required state-of-the-art processing equipment, although newer processes do utilize and require such state-of-the-art facilities and equipment. In addition, hybrid and module products are manufactured using a complex multi-chip technology featuring thin-film, laser-trimmed resistors and other active or passive components. The majority of processed wafers are subject to parametric and functional testing at either our facilities or third party vendors.  During fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, our internal wafer production occurred at one of our three owned wafer fabrication facilities at Beaverton, Oregon, San Jose, California and San Antonio, Texas. During fiscal year 2016, we completed the previously announced closure of our San Jose facility and transferred the manufacturing requirements to our other existing manufacturing locations and to our third party service providers. In fiscal year 2016 we also announced and completed the sale of our San Antonio 5facility to the semiconductor foundry TowerJazz Texas Inc. (“TowerJazz”). We entered into a long term supply agreement with TowerJazz to supply finished wafers on our existing processes and products. The transfer of these activities from internal wafer production to third party foundries is part of our manufacturing transformation initiative ("manufacturing transformation") to reduce costs and move from a fixed cost to variable cost model, which was first announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.In fiscal year 2007, we entered into a supply agreement with Seiko Epson Corporation (“Epson”). In fiscal year 2010, we entered into a supply agreement with Powerchip Technology Corporation (“Powerchip”) and Maxchip Electronics Corp. (“Maxchip”) to provide 300mm and 200mm wafer capacity, respectively. In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a supply agreement with UMC Corporation (“UMC”). Under these agreements, “partner foundries” (Epson, Powerchip, UMC and Maxchip) have manufactured some of the wafers required for many of our semiconductor products. These products are manufactured under rights and licenses using our proprietary technology at Epson's fabrication facility located in Sakata, Japan and at Powerchip, UMC and Maxchip's fabrication facilities in Taiwan.  In fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, the products manufactured by our partner foundries and merchant foundries (example: Taiwan Semiconductor Company Limited) represented 66%, 48% and 50%, respectively, of our total wafer production. Once wafer manufacturing has been completed, wafers are sorted in order to determine which integrated circuits on each wafer are functional and which are defective. We currently perform the majority of wafer sorting, final testing and shipping activities at two company owned facilities, located in Cavite, the Philippines and Chonburi Province, Thailand, although we also utilize independent subcontractors for some wafer sorting. Where required, our wafer bump manufacturing facility located in Dallas, Texas is used to process wafers for products that utilize chip scale packaging (“CSP”) also known as wafer level packaging (“WLP”). CSP or WLP enables integrated circuits to be attached directly to a printed circuit board without the use of a traditional plastic package. In addition, we utilize independent subcontractors to perform wafer bump manufacturing to the extent we do not have the internal capacity or capabilities to perform such services. With the introduction of 300mm wafers into our manufacturing network, we have enabled subcontractors located in Taiwan to perform wafer bumping and testing of these wafers. In fiscal year 2016, we announced our intent to shut down our Dallas wafer bump factory. The current manufacturing operations of the Dallas facility will be transferred to our Beaverton, Oregon factory or an assembly subcontractor during fiscal year 2017, which is also a part of our manufacturing transformation. Integrated circuit assembly is performed by foreign assembly subcontractors, located in China, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore and South Korea, where wafers are separated into individual integrated circuits and assembled into a variety of packages.After assembly has been completed, the majority of the assembled product is shipped to our facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand, where the packaged integrated circuits undergo final testing and preparation for customer shipment. In addition, we utilize independent subcontractors to perform final testing.The majority of our finished products ship directly from either Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand to customers worldwide or to other Company locations for sale to end-customers or distributors.Customers, Sales and Marketing We market our products worldwide through a direct-sales and applications organization and through our own and other unaffiliated distribution channels to a broad range of customers in diverse industries. Our products typically require a sophisticated technical sales and marketing effort. Our sales organization is divided into domestic and international regions. Distributors and direct customers generally buy on an individual purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term agreements.Certain distributors have agreements with us which allow for certain sales price rebates or price protection on certain inventory if we lower the price of those products. Certain distributor agreements also generally permit distributors to exchange a portion of certain purchases on a periodic basis. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products.Sales to certain international distributors are made under agreements which permit limited stock return privileges but not sales price rebates or price protection. The agreements generally permit distributors to exchange a portion of their purchases on a periodic basis. See “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, 