RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business.The sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical.Our products are sold in the following major end-markets: (i) Automotive, (ii) Communications and Data Center, (iii) Computing, (iv) Consumer, and (v) Industrial. The demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. We often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. The semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. As a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation.The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.A reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business. For example, sales to Samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 10% of net revenues in fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017. The delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from any one or more of our large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from any one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations.Our global operations subject us to risks associated with changes in trade policies, including international trade disputes, and domestic or international political, social, economic or other conditions. We are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. Exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal or regulatory standards, including, but not limited to, international trade disputes, could result in the imposition of tariffs, sanctions, restrictions on the U.S. import and export controls and other trade restrictions or barriers, which could negatively impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of customer demand. For example, in 2018, the U.S. and China began to impose partial tariffs on each other's products, and the trade tension between the two countries has escalated in 2019. In addition, the U.S. has and may continue to focus on the business practices of specific foreign companies, including large technology companies based in China, which may result in future U.S. government actions impacting our ability to do business with such companies. The possibility of a deteriorating trade relationship may put us at a disadvantage in competition with non-U.S. companies and lead to a decreased customer demand for our products in the long-term due to the growing economic risks and geopolitical uncertainty between the U.S. and China. International trade disputes could also result in various forms of protectionist trade legislation and other protectionist measures that could limit the Company’s ability to operate its business and have a negative effect on end-market demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, political and economic changes or volatility, political unrest, civil strife, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties in certain countries, such as the Philippines, could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. We have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. Problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in business interruptions, substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to our customers, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business.Incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations.As is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. Some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. In other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in 9advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. Because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. Furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-downs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations.We may experience difficulties implementing our new global execution system, which may adversely affect our ability to effectively supply products to our customers.We have been implementing a new global execution system (“GES”) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. This implementation is a major undertaking and requires significant employee time and financial resources. While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, implementation issues may arise. For example, we may experience staff turnover, which may delay the implementation of GES. Additionally, unforeseen issues may arise, which could disrupt the implementation of GES. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and the implementation or operation of GES could disrupt or reduce our supply chain execution and operational efficiency which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers and may impact the accuracy of our financial reporting. Our inability to successfully manage the implementation of GES could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business.The marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. New product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. However, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. The success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service.Our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems.The manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. We may experience a disruption in factory operations, manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, outdated infrastructure, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, changing our process technologies, capacity constraints, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities. For example, our internal fabrication facility at Beaverton, Oregon requires additional investment to, among other things, upgrade its infrastructure and manufacturing equipment. In connection with the upgrading of our facilities, we may experience a disruption in factory operations, which could result in damages to the facilities and stoppages to the operations of the facilities. Additionally, our internal fabrication facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or other causes, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for some period of time.If our internal fabrication facilities become unavailable to us, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply our products given the nature of our products. In addition, our third party's manufacturing facilities may not be available to us due to natural or man-made disasters, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes. To the extent we experience disruptions at our wafer fabrication facilities or we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers.We rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and CSP packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication, and sorting and testing services. For example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in San Antonio, Texas to TowerJazz Texas, Inc. (formerly known as TJ Texas, Inc.) ("TowerJazz"), an indirect 10wholly-owned subsidiary of Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (“Tower”), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with TowerJazz, pursuant to which we procure from TowerJazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. None of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. Reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. Such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations.Any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight, and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages, or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships, and goodwill with customers. Furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible.Our critical information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, data breaches, interruptions, and failures.We rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee, and other records, and operate other critical functions. Maintaining the security of our information technology systems is important to our business and reputation. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources. Security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise information technology systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. We currently have developed, and are in the process of developing more systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. Although we take steps to detect and investigate security incidents and implement protections to prevent their recurrence, in some cases, we might be unable to anticipate or prevent all attacks because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems are constantly evolving. Despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may still be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats, catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other events. Risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers’ operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. A prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees. Our business and reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to legal and regulatory claims which could result in significant financial or reputational damage.Our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability.We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. Our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. Although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed.Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our Company. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. Should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.11Our independent distributors and sales representatives may underperform relative to our expectations, terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results.A portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could underperform for various reasons, including as a result of reducing their sales efforts applied to our products, or terminate their distribution relationship with us. In fiscal 2019, 46% of our revenues were generated from distributors, the largest of which was Avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 22% of our revenues. We require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. The letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. Where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. We do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. The inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or the general underperformance of a significant distributor could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. Additional factors that could adversely affect us include the difficulties of managing independent sales organizations due to any matter involving fraud or dishonesty on the part of the independent distributors and sales representatives. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such misconduct of an independent third party.  If we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.We enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and electronic manufacturing services (“EMS”) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the OEMs and EMS partners' manufacturing location. The inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the OEM or EMS partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. Once the inventory is pulled by the OEM or EMS partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. The specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the OEM or EMS partner. Generally, the arrangements with the OEMs and EMS partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time.We believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. Should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by OEMs or EMS partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. In addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the OEM or EMS partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Should we supply product in excess of the OEM or EMS partners' actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write-down that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively.We rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. Periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. Such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. Other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling products that are alleged to be infringing, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all.12We may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others.In the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost-effective manner to avoid claims of infringement. Any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims.We provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. We cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. To date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future.Our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities.On June 18, 2019, the U.S. Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service released temporary regulations under Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section 245A (“Section 245A”), as enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and IRC Section 954(c)(6) (the “Temporary Regulations”), which apply retroactively to intercompany dividends occurring after December 31, 2017. The Temporary Regulations limit the applicability of the foreign personal holding company income (“FPHCI”) look-through exception for certain intercompany dividends received by a controlled foreign corporation.  Before application of the retroactive Temporary Regulations, the Company benefited in fiscal years 2018 and 2019 from the FPHCI look-through exception. The Company has analyzed the relevant Temporary Regulations and concluded that they were not validly issued. Therefore, the Company has not accounted for the effects of the retroactive Temporary Regulations in its results of operations for fiscal year 2019. The Company believes it has strong arguments in favor of its position and that it has met the more likely than not recognition threshold that its position will be sustained. The Company intends to vigorously defend its position, however, due to the uncertainty involved in challenging the validity of regulations as well as a potential litigation process, there can be no assurances that the relevant Temporary Regulations will be invalidated, modified or that a court of law will rule in favor of the Company. An unfavorable resolution of this issue could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.We are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to:•the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;•changes in our global structure that involve changes to investment in technology outside of the United States; •the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, 13•changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; •increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; •changes in available tax credits; •changes in share-based compensation; •changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including laws or rules enacted by countries in response to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”); and•changes in generally accepted accounting principles.Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.The global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. Accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. This would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.If economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the United States or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.Shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business.The semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future.We purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. If the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. In addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. We continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. However, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements.We may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements.We enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. The number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. Should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. In addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. Under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. If products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. Such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships with the affected customers, reputation and goodwill.Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly.14Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results.Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition