 Tonight -- Africa Eye exposes a sex trade network that trafficks women from Africa to India. The first day I went there I looked and I saw so, so many girls. And what you do is you sit down and then a man has to come and choose. Using hidden cameras, we reveal the fixer who hides behind a cloak of respectability. We have evidence against you, we have evidence of you saying that you are going to process women. That they are going to come from Kenya to India for sex work. You can show me the evidence. The people who traffick the women and force them into sexual slavery. Just wear a good dress, when you go for your sex with your client. And the African sex workers who are treated like merchandise and live and die outside the protection of the law. She had not finished her madam's debt. Poor her, they have called her madam. All of this, told through the testimony of one brave woman, Grace, who was trafficked to India and agrees to go undercover for Africa Eye. I don't want anybody else to go through what I went through. I want this whole thing to stop. We go inside a sex trafficking network that brings women to India to satisfy the demands of African men. My name is Nyasha Kadandara -- a journalist and filmmaker. I produced the Africa Eye series 'Sex and the Sugar Daddy'. Grace was one of the women featured. I'm Grace. I'm a singer. I’m a musician, I'm a dancer, and I'm an actress. I want to become famous and have a good life…. What matters the most is my baby’s future. I don’t want my her to go through what I went through. The series investigated the trend of young Kenyan women seeking male sponsors to fund their lifestyles. As the series aired Grace was drawn into a string of tempting messages in a friend’s WhatsApp group. They were looking for dancers and hostesses for tourists. It was a WhatsApp group and it was my friend's group. In that group most of us were dancers, models or video vixens. So that girl posted in the group that she is looking for someone who is interested in working in India. If you work in India there is good money, within a few months, you have your land. Hearing that it's good money, I went for it, I decided okay. Grace was linked to a Kenyan woman in India who would later become her madam. So she helped me get the passport and the visa and the air ticket she sent me on email, and then I came to India. At the airport in New Delhi, Grace was met by a woman known as Goldie, a madam working in the local sex industry. She took her to her home to Govindpuri, South Delhi. I hadn’t heard from Grace in a while, but when she texted back, I could tell something was wrong. "I’m not dancing here. We have to go with men to be able to pay debt." "How much is your debt?" "Do you have your passport or they took that away?" "My debt is 270,000 rupees." "They have my passport." "There are so many girls here many from Kenya, some from Tanzanian and others from Uganda." No Passport. Two hundred and seventy thousand rupees in debt. That's nearly four thousand dollars. I needed to go to India and investigate how women like Grace were being trafficked into the sex trade. I met Grace in a market in a safe part of Delhi. She wanted to reveal what she had been going through as a warning to others. Grace expected to be working with tourists. You’re receiving a tourist, like you are showing you around, that’s what I understood. But prostitution for me is something that I had said an X to. I was even telling, in my prayers, I was telling God, let it be the last thing I’ll ever want to do in my life. Grace agreed to film undercover to expose an underworld of sexual exploitation where women are trapped, traded and abused. It’s okay, I’m good to go... Alright, that’s fine. You look nervous. What, I look nervous? Yeah. I’m good, I’m good, I’m good, I’m fine. She would start by taking us to Govindpuri and the flat she was taken to when she first arrived. Goldie’s brothel. For five months Grace lived in this room with four other trafficked women. Men would visit the flat daily. Very many times we would bring clients to the house or you go to hotels. If one of us had a client in the room the rest of us would sleep on the couch in the sitting room and wait for the one in the room to finish their stuff and then go back to sleep. Here you can see a client passing payment to one of Goldie’s trafficked women. And then they leave. The head of this household is Goldie, the woman who trafficked Grace. But she doesn’t act alone. Princess is my madam’s sister, it’s like they are sisters because they have grown up together. We respect the both of them. Kenyan Madams - Goldie and Princess - controlled every bit of Grace’s life in India. Nothing sums up Grace’s life of exploitation more than the debt book she used to record payments to Goldie. It's the list of how I paid my debt, and the amounts and dates I used to pay and dates I used to pay. If I give money, Princess writes, Goldie writes, everybody writes. It’s a record of repayments for the money Goldie claims she spent bringing Grace to India. Let's say I've given them three thousand today I write 3000, Princess writes 3000, Goldie writes 3000. When I look at all these numbers, I remember. I remember the guys I went with. I can even like almost, remember all of them. Just by looking at this book like this, it just reminds me of everybody. The first client I got, he just made me hate India. He's even now threatening me: 'I'm going to beat you up.' He wants to give me 500 instead of 1000. He even hurt me you know, so... Looking at Grace's debt book it was really heartbreaking to see that on Christmas Day she came home with nine thousand rupees. That means she slept the least nine men on Christmas Day and her family had no idea when she texted them to say 'Merry Christmas'. I was really paying my debt fast, I was really trying my best so that I start helping my family. You just try your best, you give the money. Immediately after Grace arrived Goldie confiscated her passport - The trap had been sprung. Goldie told her it was for safekeeping but it's the trafficker’s signature tactic. It stops their victims running away until they pay back the money the traffickers claim they are owed. Grace owes two hundred and seventy thousand rupees. That's approximately three thousand eight hundred U.S. dollars. But is the debt all it seems or just another money making scam? Online on average an air ticket is five hundred dollars. Visa 80 dollars, passport 40 dollars. Even with living costs the Madame's profit is at least three thousand dollars. That's exploitation. When Africa Eye looked into the payment details for Grace’s airfare we discovered it was purchased using a stolen identity. It turned out Goldie had used an internet scammer in Delhi to source the ticket. The traffickers paid nothing for the flight and then demanded Grace pay a vastly exaggerated bill. In six months Goldie trafficked five women, making almost fifteen eighteen thousand dollars in profit. For the sex workers under Goldie’s roof, everything is about money and control. We had a curfew we had to be home by 11am. If I get out of the house and I’ve just gone to the shop, five mins later - “where are you?” You have to come back, if not that, whoever you are with let him give you money for the shot, 1000 I'm counting. A shot or kifupi - is slang for sex with a client. Goldie's workrate was pitiless -- day and night her victims were expected to be earning money. In the evenings her women were turned out to solicit men in local pick up bars known as kitchens. Put on the high heels so that when you go for your kifupi on Devli Road, you don’t come back here because we are leaving now. - When are you leaving? - Right now! Just wear a good dress, when you go for your kifupi. From there come to the kitchen. Many neighbourhoods in Southern Delhi are home to Africans from across the continent. They go to the kitchens to socialise and the men can find women to sleep with. Grace took us to Paris and Caro kitchens in her neighbourhood Tughlakabad. Just ring the bell, they are going to open. The kitchens are illegal bars. There’s high security and CCTV on the lookout for unwanted guests and prying eyes. The first day I went there I looked and I saw so, so many girls, so many girls and what you do is you sit down and then a man has to come and choose. He has to come and pick you and like they way you go to the market and pick potatoes. He has to come and say I like this one, this is the one I’m going with. While filming Grace is approached by a former client. We go home? Yeah, but I have someone right now. - Huh? - I have someone. Dump that person. While we were in Paris kitchen we saw Grace’s madams - Goldie and Princess. Watching over one their “girls” as she looks for clients... Grace can’t forget her first night in the kitchens. Usually the madam is the one who takes a new girl to the kitchen but me, I went with my sisters and then I was going to the washroom someone just stopped me and asked me, "how much?'’ I told the guy, “wait, wait let me come back, I don't understand you.” I went back to my friend and asked her, "he's asking me how much? What do I tell him?” She told me, “Is it for a night or for a shot?” And this is when it hit me, this what you are really getting yourself into. And then all of a sudden I’m like, "You want to pay me 1000 (rupees). 1000?" "Okay like, okay no, no problem 1000.” I have to sleep with how many men till I get to 270,000 (rupees)? During our investigation, we identified at least 15 kitchens across seven neighbourhoods in South Delhi where scores of African women are forced to sell their bodies. While we filmed undercover in Tughlakabad district Paris and Caro kitchens were suddenly shut for four days without explanation. Within hours messages started appearing on a local community WhatsApp group. They were tagged Eddie -- the chairman. Chairman Eddie seemed linked to a group called AINSCA – The All Indian Nigerian Students and Community Association. That rang a bell. We had filmed election posters for AINSCA stuck to the doors of some of the kitchens. Online and across cities in India AINSCA has a public profile as a nationwide community group offering social activities to connect and support African students studying abroad. Then we found this circular listing AINSCA officials endorsed it seems by the Nigerian High Commision. And there was Eddie -- named as theTaskforce Chairman of Tughlakabad - along with his contact details. But Grace knew him for a very different role in the community. This one’s chairman. The AINSCA that I know is protecting the street. I didn't think they are people who want to be... like to be known by the public. Why? So the chairman is at the top of everyone, right? He is above everyone… If there is anyone who is above, then they don’t talk like him, because him, he is so bossy. Eddie seemed to be controlling things and later he bragged that he had closed the kitchens as a public demonstration of his authority. The most important is showing remorse. Nobody is too special. The most important I mentioned why? I closed those kitchens before. Why I opened them is that they showed remorse. They have begged for almost five days, everyday calling, begging. So I realised they showed remorse. We are not gods. We are human beings. No matter the power and things we have. We let it go. Before the kitchen is open they must pay, They must pay a fine. And there are a lot of fines that are usually paid like maybe you're told if you break this rule you pay fine. If you break this rule you pay fine. So was Eddie trying to clean up the kitchens or was something else going on? The answer to that comes later. And the shutdown? It was but a brief respite for women like Grace. Once I came home, I had gone for work somewhere and I had slept with so many men. I came home with 10,000. And I was feeling no, I wasn’t okay. I was not fine. I was like bleeding and I wasn't on my periods so I told her: No I can’t even, even sitting down, is a problem, eating sleeping is a problem, when I go to pee I'm feeling a lot of pain. I called Goldie, I told her there is a certain guy coming. And my madam imagine she forced me to go with that guy. “You have to go and work.” I was just like I just went with him and the whole process I was just feeling so much pain, I was just crying and… So I still had to pretend I was okay, even though I was not. So… I just I couldn't even pretend again. It was... Sorry. No, it’s okay, you don’t have to apologise. I couldn't even pretend again. The pain was just too much and I was thinking who is even going to have pity on me, at least. Who is going to… The United Nations defines sex trafficking as the recruitment and transportation of people using deception and coercion for the purpose of prostitution and sexual exploitation. The reality is brutal. Grace showed us some of the images and voice messages from a closed Indian network for trafficked sex workers. And once again AINSCA is mentioned. Grace sent me this voice note. Her friend recorded it. And in order to protect her identity I’m going to tell you what she is saying. The man on the other side of the phone call seems very angry, he is telling her that it is between her and AINSCA. They are the ones who will mediate her dispute with her madam over her passport and her debt. She sounds so desperate and she is asking them: "How much do I owe you? How much do I owe you?" She wants her passport back. It’s a very violent conversation. She is saying, you already beat me up, and now you are threatening to kill me. Some of the messages were from distressed women who had been sold off to a client in another city - for life. She sold you to a man? Yes. I was sold but that is not the worst thing that happened to me. He used to have sex with me and says it serves as repayment of my debt. Sadly, sometimes the messages brought devastating news. A video of a trafficked woman who took her life. And another of a sex worker murdered in a brothel. Shockingly some of the comments posted refer not to loss of life but loss of profit. She had not finished her madam's debt, poor her. They have called her madam. As well as the risk of physical harm the psychological pressure takes a toll. At first when I came to India especially I was taking too much alcohol. Because I wasn’t used to the new life and also it wasn’t easy to hustle when you are sober. You know when you are going, you are going to sleep with someone that you have not interacted with before. You don't know each other and the only thing that is taking you there is just you know sex. It’s so difficult. Especially when you are sober, like you are just watching yourself do this it’s not easy. I didn’t want to be myself when I'm doing that, I wanted to be someone else like I’m not in this world completely, I’m just not here. So I was drinking a lot. Grace has had calls from friends in Kenya tempted to come to India to make money. Why do you sound like you are coming the same way I came? Why are you sounding like that? I don’t want you to come, don’t come. Don't come to India, don’t... Please... If you really love me, don't come to India. Please. The story they are telling is the same story they told me. I was told to pay 270 thousand Kenyan shillings. When I got here, I paid 400,000 Kenyan shilling. My friend, that is the business. You are told you are going to do something and end up in prostitution. I’m not lying! Okay, we’ll talk later. You know I told her, “I hope you are not coming to do what I am doing?” She said, “No”. Because me, I already told her, the moment I reached and then I saw what I was doing I told them “Wheh, it’s not what you were thinking.” When I come, my friends also want to join me. So I have to tell them the truth. Grace got in trouble for another phone call like this. She told a friend not to come to India after she connected her to a local madam. She complained -- and Grace was summoned to a meeting with AINSCA chairman Eddie. Eddie orders her to provide another woman to replace the one the sex trade network has lost. I want you to do something for me. From what you are telling me you have friends. You still still have more. Convince one... Check the amount, it is a big loss. Not now. You know I lost my contacts. That’s the problem and I forgot my Facebook password. I had to start another facebook account. You start another Facebook account to search for your friends. I am giving you till the end of the month. Search for a woman. Convince. Stop telling people India is bad. You are not their creator and not their destiny. That’s Kenya that is hard - people are still making it there too. Convince one for yourself. Convince one for her. And Eddie is keen to remind Grace he has brought other trafficked women into line. Such as Purity who fled her madam Sonia. Sometimes it is like that. You know Purity for Sonia. Somebody else did the passport, did everything, booked ticket. She came to the airport and ran back. We later caught her. She’s now in Sonia’s house. She has to pay for the money they used in processing her paper. She has to pay Sonia. Grace wasn’t surprised she had been summoned by Eddie. You take any case to him, you buy something, you give him some money so that he can help you. They go pay him and then he makes sure that person is not in peace. The AINSCA is like that team that when a new girl is brought and the madam is having a problem with that girl they complain the AINSCA team. So it seems AINSCA is just a badge of public respectability for Eddie. Underneath is a man at the very heart of a sex trade network linked to Kenya. And locally, he is known as a sex trafficker. And he's trafficked a lot a lot, a lot of girls. All Eddie's girls. All of them, they are Kenyans. After missing the deadline for bringing a friend, Grace has to face Eddie. The flat at which Eddie fixes the meeting is a working brothel. Home to another group of trafficked Kenyan sex workers. He sees a way for Grace to resolve matters by trafficking two women. One to compensate the disappointed madam and second to start her own business. Otherwise another a cash debt will fall on her. You raise some cash, you compensate her. Is that okay? Now how much will I compensate her with? We'll check, we’ll check what she has spent and then we will see what we can do. I would not suggest you pay everything. Maybe we can cut into two or into three, you understand now? But at least show remorse it was not intentional. Okay. All right, you understand what I said now? Grace is now under orders to find a new woman or pay a fine. And then comes an escape of sorts. Grace has finally paid off her debt and takes back her passport. But that brings a new predicament. After I finished my debt, I didn’t know whether to be happy for sad. I was not free, because I was living in this foreign land, expired. I have to run away from police every day. I don’t even know if I can go to the embassy. Grace arrived on a 60-day-tourist visa that has now expired. She’s now an illegal immigrant - subject to arrest, deportation and a fine to the Indian government for overstaying. And then I have to work for my own little saving. And that time that I’m working I’m still paying rent here in India, and I’m also still supporting my family in Kenya because I have a daughter. So that makes my days in India even more and more and more. For many trafficked women life after forced sex work means accepting you’re trapped and becoming a madam yourself. This is how the network grows generation upon generation of exploitation in a family tree of corruption. There is the woman who brings you to India, who is your Indian mum. And then the one who brought her is your grandmother. The others that she brings along with you are your sisters. The name might seem friendly like mum, but it’s just for like identification - this is someone’s girl. The same way I’d call Goldie Mum, I’ll call Princess Mum, Because when I stepped in India I was shown that those are my two mums. And Anita, she is my grandmother. The terms of endearment are actually all about control. Anita brought Princess to India for sex work and so she's the grandmother -- the matriarch in this fake family gathering of trafficked Kenyan women. Full house, even Anita is here today. My grandmother. I’m telling you. I am your grandmother. - We are her children. -They are her grandchildren. This is my grandmother. The name mum, it didn’t mean like she treats you like a mum. All she cares about is the money you have to give to her. Africa Eye asked Grace to approach both Goldie and Eddie to seek advice on becoming a madam. We wanted to see if the ambition for new recruits would reveal more of how the network operates. But it was not without risk. At first I was feeling really nervous, I wasn’t sure I really wanted to do this because I didn't know exactly. If I do this it would cost me so much. But the more we do it, the more I’m getting used to it. And like I'm becoming stronger and I’m becoming more confident... You know, I know the people that I’m setting up. I know them and I have stayed with them and I know... If I do this, am I going to be at peace? I’m not doing the wrong thing, I’m just exposing what happens. I’m just exposing what is hidden. Now that Grace has paid her debt, she could become a madam like Goldie. She pays her a visit, and while braiding her hair, asks Goldie for tips on how to traffic women. You know Mum, I have never brought a girl. Mum, I am confused, when she comes, will you help me to talk to her? Definitely we will help you. Just call us when she comes. And the passport? Take the passport and tell her you are keeping it for her, for safety; which is true, just in case. You keep her passport. Just treat her well, you know! I understand. I will give you someone to help with the passport, but you need to have everything. I understand. Grace asks how much it will cost. To process the passport … I will need to confirm the cost. But the whole process , if she doesn't have a passport, will cost you 80,000 (1100 USD). Goldie promises to give Grace the contact details of a Kenyan travel agent who will help her traffic women. Okay. Will you give me the number then? I will. Goldie’s contact is the same individual in Nairobi who helped put Grace on the plane to India. A trafficker’s travel agent who provides a false medical documents and smooths out visa arrangements. Grace is revealing a well-established, well-organised criminal network moving African women to India. To expose the vicious cycle, we asked Grace to go right to the top with her story of wanting to be a madam. Hello. How are you? There’s something I wanted to talk to you about. Yeah, and I want to bring my girl. So I wanted to meet and ask you... Ok I will call you when I am leaving. I’m scared. Of course I’m scared, I’m just nervous, I’m so nervous. Because he's a very… I don’t know how to describe him but I’m just so nervous... This time around, I'm not going to do it for me, I'm doing it for somebody else. I don't want anybody else to go through what I went through. And I want this whole thing to stop. Grace is on her way to Eddie - the overseer of the sex trade in Tughlakabad - to uncover more of his role in the importation of women to India. Hello, I’m at the door. Okay they have opened. Hello sweetheart. - You were sleeping? -Yes. I woke you up? I have come from the wine shop and brought wine for your father (pimp). I want to ask him a favour and didn’t want to come empty handed. Yes… - How are you? - Tell me, I'm good. You have two girls or one girl? I only got one. I personally support anybody who wants to grow. But what I come against, what I work against is those who want to spoil the streets. Eddie offers to lead the way and help Grace traffic her first sex worker. We can process the girl, because you are having your first girl. If you had gotten a girl before, I would have have said you give this one. But since you have not gotten a girl before, I will process this one. As she arrives, you source for a girl again. Eddie is offering to break the law and help traffic a Kenyan woman to New Delhi for Grace. So, what is the process for bringing a girl? I don't know anything. Bringing a girl... are you using agents? I don’t know. You don't give money to the girl. You give it to the agents. In as much as the person comes to Nairobi, agents do the passport, even the birth certificates, we process that with the money. Okay. It's nice you did the right thing by coming to talk to me. You help them to become rich. They help you to add to what you have. That is why those girls are coming... To leave on good terms, Grace pays the Chairman a customary 2000 rupees. This is the little I have. Thank you so much for the advice, and for the help. Thank you. If there's one person that scared me so much in that India is that Chairman guy. Right from the time I left the house with that camera. I was so nervous, I was so scared. I thought he would notice. Every day Africans come in, from Tanzania, from Uganda, from Kenya. Every day I hear there is a new girl who has come. So I just want my fellow girls out there to know, before you go to any country, be sure what you are going to do there. At the end of our investigation we needed to confront the chairman Our producer posed as Grace’s wealthy boyfriend. He asked Eddie to meet for a business lunch. Hello, good morning, Good morning how are you? I’m fine, did you have a good night’s sleep? Yeah, yeah, and you? I’m very good, very good. So I wanted us to meet for lunch, if you are okay for that, somewhere in Defence Colony market. Eddie! Hi, how are you? Good. Good. My name is Nyasha Kadandara, I’m from BBC Africa Eye. We have evidence against you and we want to talk to you about the sex trade that you are involved in. Sex trade? Yes, the sex that you are involved in. How? Women are coming from Kenya to India for sex work. They are forced to work in the kitchens that you run. I don’t run kitchens. Listen to me, I am the chairman of all Africans in India. Alright? Does AINSCA know what you are doing? This is my AISNCA ID card. So you are a proud member of AINSCA, so AINSCA knows that you are entrapping and exploiting women for sex work? I don’t do that. Are you sure? Sure, 100%. We have evidence against you, we have evidence of you saying that you are going to process women. That they are going to come from Kenya to India for sex work. You can show me the evidence. We do, we have it right here. This is a right of reply, for you to come and respond to BBC. We look forward to hearing your response. Alright. I cannot believe he actually had an AINSCA card he was just so proud. “Yes I’m a part of AINSCA and there is nothing wrong with anything that I have done." He just denied it, he didn’t even say anything. Africa Eye contacted Eddie Anideh three times to ask him to explain his role in the sex trade of women from Kenya to India. He offered no substantive response to our allegations but denied any involvement in trafficking and insists the kitchens were closed by the local police. The BBC also contacted AINSCA officials in Delhi. The organisation said: "We work in the interests of Nigerian citizens in India. Mr Eddie Anideh is our Taskforce chairman in Tughlakabad but his duties are strictly as defined in the AINSCA constitution which in no way condones illegal activity.“ We contacted the High Commission and this is what they said: "The Nigerian High commission recognizes AINSCA. We work with them because it is more practical to provide consular assistance to the many Nigerians who live in India with their co-operation. However the relationship is strictly in compliance with Indian and Nigerian laws, and also with their own constitutions, none of which endorses criminal activity such as sex trafficking.” Right now the only thing I want right now is my freedom. After nearly a year, it’s time for Grace to leave India and go home to her family. Africa Eye enabled Grace to resolve her immigration status and pay the fines for overstaying her tourist visa. Finally, she’s free. Africa Eye also asked the three madams - Goldie, Princess and Anita - to answer our allegations of trafficking and brothel keeping. They too made no response. It feels so good to be back and I’m so happy. I’m in Kenya, I’m so happy. How does it feel to home? I’m feeling so good, so good, I don’t know, I can’t believe I'm seeing Kenya. I think I’m going to believe when I sleep and wake up tomorrow. 