 hey everyone in this video we're going to show you on how to get a single or multiple entry tourist visa for Japan,  for Filipinos who are self-employed. We used RELI tours, by the way this is not paid so we are going to show you how, the process is easy, simple and hassle free So WHY RELI? We did not have any problems based on our experience. that is why we are sharing it with you RELI Tours & Travel Agency is one of the accredited agencies of Japanese embassy to process your visa on your behalf. First you have to pay nine hundred fifty pesos per applicant thru their BDO account whether single or a multiple entry. The fee is just the same. if you have an online banking please use it instead so that you will not go to the BDO bank pay the amount and   and print the receipt mail it together with your documents send it using courier prepaid LBC envelope, here is the address information, telephone number and website address if ever you need to check the status of your application. you need to have an original  NSO copy of your birth certificates, have it requested and delivered from NSO it should be within one year, an original copy of your marriage certificate if you're married. You  need this if you're going to bring your husband/wife and your children. A  photocopy of your recent income tax return. A bank certificate, just get it from any of your bank. I think it's around 100-200 pesos. Passport should have at least six months of validity when traveling internationally. The photo size should be two by two inches or forty five by forty five mm. Your application form must be printed using A4 size paper Please paste in application form with your full name and birthday written at the back of your photo before application. If you are requesting for multiple entry, put 10 days or less than 15 days on the intended length of stay regarding the airline information, just put any airline. It's not necessary to buy a ticket. and also with the hotel. You can put whatever hotel with the hotel's address and phone number. Again no need to book for a hotel. It's self explanatory. All applicants must submit the application form. It's two pages. No erasures, no blank space, If questions are not applicable to you, please write "N/A". don't forget to affix your signature and the date. Letter of Guarantee is needed to support the applicants who will join you on this trip an example is your child. If he/she is a student put that as an Occupation, if not yet just put N/A. also include additional applicants like your relatives and spouse. You need to print and submit this form Put your name on the Guarantor information and affix your signature on the seal. Again it's self-explanatory. You need to submit a simple itinerary. Put the date, activity plan, telephone number and accommodation, no need to complicate if there's no information regarding accommodation, just leave it blank. For those who are requesting for a multiple entry visa you must submit a multiple entry visa form request and just tick the box on why you need a multiple entry visa. You need to explain as well the reason why you need it. You can put as your reason that you want to visit the different cities of Japan. you can download the application form, letter of guarantee and multiple entry request forms at RELI tours' website. You can see it on the first page. Now when you're ready with all the documents and the requirements submit them together with the deposit slip as proof of payment to RELI. Documents must be complete. Applicant must be the sender. Please prepay your sending fee to LBC  Processing time is within 7days, based on our experience, we got our passports back between 2-3 days. this is a sample of single entry visa,  for the length of stay allowed is 15 days and for multiple tourist entry visa. We have 5 yrs  years validity and then you are allowed to stay for 30 days every visit. Thank you for watching guys. I hope we help you with your visa application. If you have questions please comment down below If you want to see our Japan (Tokyo/Osaka) travel videos, please click the link 