 - Yo, what's going on? This is Billboard, and you should know me, I'm Yungblud. Where did I grow up? I grew up in Doncaster in the north of England. I say to Manchester most people in America because everyone's like, where's Doncaster? What is the story behind the name Yungblud? Everyone always expects me to say like, it was this magical myth that I walked under a ladder and it smacked me in front of the face, but I was actually youngest person on my management roster, and I thought Dominic Harrison, for the music I was writing, was a bit polite, so I was like, what can I call myself? And my manager always just started calling me the young blood, so I was like, oh okay, sick. And then he comes in the room and says, alright, young blood, I'm like, bing, light bulbs! And then double the u, double the flavor. What is the craziest thing I've ever done? I've done a lot of crazy things. I think probably like, just something on stage, man. I've like, I've tried to back flip off a rigging before, and it didn't go very well. I've tried to like, do a lot of crazy stuff where I've like, resulted in broken bones, like jump off balconies at parties just to make people laugh. Yeah, I'm that person. Typical Leo, trying to make people laugh, do stupid stuff. What is my approach to social, I love social media. I love connecting to people, that's how I connect to my fanbase. That's how I can directly connect to a person who might be on the other side of the world that I may never meet in real life. Now I mean, everyone's like, oh, it's the end of the world. I don't think it is, I think it's just another form of communication. You can either like, rock out to it, or hate on it. But I'm rocking out to it, hard. When have I been the most starstruck? Probably when I met Dave Grohl, to be honest. Drave Grohl is like, such a rock and roll star, and just so chill, he's like, yo, Yungblud, what's up? And I was like, sorry? I'm like, I shit myself, and I'm like, pissing myself thinking about shitting myself right now. I was like, fucking Dave Grohl! When did I start making music? I remember one of the first instances, I was like 11 years old and I walked down and I wrote a song and I played it for me mom. I was like, Mom, I've written a song and I'm so excited about it! It was total rubbish, probably. But I was like, what do you think? And I played a song and she looks at me, she goes, oh yeah, it's alright, that. And I'm like, oh, thanks, mom. Your 11 year old son just wanted you to be like, ah, it's amazing, it's insane! And my mom's actually really nice, but I was just like, I'm gonna prove you wrong. I'm gonna write sick songs. What was the inspiration behind 11 minutes? It was a story that genuinely moves me. It was about two young people who kind of fell in love, and because of the way we act right now in society, they felt like they had to split up to get a good job or to get somewhere in their life, and they realized they couldn't live without each other, and they said that they would meet up to try and rekindle this spark, because they realized they couldn't be without each other. And on the way to meeting up, she got killed in a car accident. And, I don't know, the story was such a moving, beautiful tragedy to me, I just think it's a resemblance of you never know how precious something is until you've lost it. When did I first meet Halsey? In LA, man. We just literally met up for a drink to talk some shit. And then bish, bash, bosh, here we go. Wow, what is my biggest accomplishment so far? I don't know man, I think I'm really proud of the community that kind of Yungblud, as a whole, has built. I think I'm really proud of the connection and the safety of this community that's been built around that name, and I'm just getting started and I just want that community to grow and grow and grow and grow. 