  JONATHAN DYER: Hello, and welcome. My name is Jonathan Dyer. And I'm managing editor at The World. This is a Facebook live Q&A about antibody testing and reopening society. With me is Dr. Michael Mina, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology and a core member of the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health. You can post a question for us on Facebook @ForumHSPH and @pritheworld, or you can email them to theforumathsph.harvard.edu. This Q&A is jointly presented by the Forum at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health and The World from PRX and WGBH. Michael, antibody testing has been touted as a key approach to reopen society. Can you just tell us what these tests are, and what role they might play in doing that? MICHAEL MINA: Sure. Well, first I want to say, I'm happy to be here. And thanks for everyone who is watching. And thanks for joining us. We'll be taking your questions, and hopefully we'll get to them. So the antibody tests are a distinct type of test. A lot of the conversation during this epidemic has been dominated by testing, surrounding looking for the virus itself. And that is a metric of are you-- do you have the virus in you, right now? Are you infected, currently? Antibody tests are a very different type of test. They ask that question, have you had the virus in you in the past? And was it recent, or was it a longer time ago? And so, those are some of the questions that the antibody tests are looking for essentially, not for the virus itself. It's looking at your body's immune response, or your body's response to the virus. And that immune response, in the form of antibodies, sticks around in people. Usually, it comes up about 10 or so days after infection. And then, it can last, potentially, for life in some level. But of course, there's been a lot of discussion about what those levels of antibodies mean. How do we actually interpret the antibody test? But for the purpose of the question, I would say an antibody test is looking to understand, has somebody actually been exposed? And maybe, can we get some information on what level of protection they have against the virus, for the future? JONATHAN DYER: And so, what would have you been finding about the level of virus protection that people might have, how long ago they might have had the virus, what level of antibodies there are that you're finding? MICHAEL MINA: Yeah, so essentially, we don't yet know how to interpret the level of antibody. We can say with pretty good confidence, at this point, that we have some tests that are really quite powerful. They're very accurate. None are going to be 100% accurate. There's no tests that are 100% accurate for anything, really, if you look hard enough. But we now have very good tests that we perform in the laboratory. And instead of just giving us a yes or no answer-- does this person have antibodies or not-- we actually have tests that we have, some of them we've developed here at Harvard, and elsewhere. They've been developed by some of the major manufacturers. They can actually give you a quantitative value. They can tell you how much antibody is measured in your blood. And that can be powerful. But we have to do the studies first, to understand how to use that information. So for example, right now, let's just use fake numbers. If I tell you that-- if somebody gives me two documents, one says that somebody has 50 antibodies and one says that somebody has 500 antibodies. At this moment in time, I won't know how to interpret the level of protection that means. We have to do the studies, where we follow people over time who have antibodies, and we stratify them. We say, this is a group of people who have low antibodies. And this group of people have high. And then, we ask over the next couple of months, for example, do one of those groups get infected and sick again, and another one not. And that will help us start to differentiate and figure out, are there levels of antibodies above which are protected, and below which you might not be. JONATHAN DYER: Just would like to get to some questions, now. They're coming in about what the tests can actually tell us. The questions on Facebook are coming in fast and furious. This one is from Felice Freyer, who is a health care reporter here in Boston, The Boston Globe. She asks, the city of Boston just announced that testing of representative sampling of asymptomatic Boston residents, who were tested both for COVID-19 and for antibodies, found that 9.9% had antibodies and 2.6%, all asymptomatic, tested positive for COVID-19. What conclusions can be drawn from these results? And do they surprise you? MICHAEL MINA: So they don't surprise me. I think one thing we have to be very careful about is, when we say that we're using representative samples, we have to really understand how representative are the samples, and over what populace are they really representative. You can have a representative sample of a nursing home resident in Boston, but that would probably be representative just of nursing homes, for example. So the fact that that found 9% positive, in a city like Boston, doesn't surprise me very much. We know that this virus has gone through quite a lot of people. In particular, when we start including nursing home residents who've been hit very hard, when we include homeless shelters, there's been a lot of these concentrated groups of people, that are part of our society, where positivity rates have gone to 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%. So I think that it suggests that the virus has transmitted widely across our population. Whether it turns out that the Boston population, if we took everyone, is truly at 9% or 10%, is still up in the air. It could be more like 3%, or 4%, or 5%. JONATHAN DYER: This question comes in from Marlene, Madison, New Jersey Health Department. She asks, can you explain the significance of positivity rates in current diagnostic testing? I was told that the WHO goal is 20%. MICHAEL MINA: I think that the diagnostic testing, meaning the antibody test, or-- JONATHAN DYER: That's my understanding of her question. MICHAEL MINA: I'm not quite sure what the 20-- what the 20% is getting at, actually. Can you repeat the question? Maybe I'll-- JONATHAN DYER: Yeah, she says would you explain the significance of positivity rates in current diagnostic testing. I was told the WHO goal is 20%. So she might actually be asking about testing of whether someone actually currently has COVID-19. MICHAEL MINA: Yeah, so I would say that we have to-- when we look at the positivity rates and what we're trying to achieve, if we're using that positivity rate in the population as a metric for knowing how many people do we want to be testing, so for example, if we test everyone right now for the virus, we will probably have-- probably less than 1%, at any given time, will actually have the virus in them. But what we know about the way that testing is performed for the virus, it actually-- we tend to select for people who are symptomatic. So despite the fact that we might have 1% or less of the population positive for the virus at the moment, if we actually look at the percent positive that is tested, it's often times above 10%, 15%, and 20% in Boston, for example. But that doesn't mean that 20% of all Boston people are positive for the virus. That just is a reflection of who we're testing. And I think, actually, the lower the rate is, then that indicates that we're testing generally a more broad and a less skewed population. So maybe that's getting at the answer there. I'm not quite positive. JONATHAN DYER: As we've actually drifted onto COVID-19 testing, it might actually be a point to get this question from Daniel Chang, who says that Florida began offering serology testing at state run test sites, this last week. The testing capacity is 100 a day at four drive-through sites in south central and southern and northern Florida. How many people a day will a state like Florida, with a population of 21 and a half million, have to test in order for researchers to understand the prevalence of the virus in the population, and to safely reopen businesses and public spaces? MICHAEL MINA: So the number of people that need to be tested is going to be very dependent on how well you're testing, how representative the pool of people is that you are testing. So you can go and test a million people, but if they don't represent the other 20 million people, then that's not enough tests. You have to-- so I would say that you have to have, at the very least, the way that we are approaching this question here, we're trying to find-- we're trying to use very good databases, some databases that are developed, for example, by economists and for political reasons. We're trying to leverage these databases to construct a very representative cohort of the population, and test that small cohort-- relatively small cohort, a few thousand people. We can then use that as our base of understanding, sort of baseline positivity rates across these different spectra, and use that to calibrate the biases, to understand better the biases that might happen, when we go and test much larger swaths of the population in a less robust fashion, in terms of finding representativeness. And so, if you do it well, you can actually get away with testing in the low thousands, or maybe 10,000 people for a state like Florida, and get a pretty good understanding of what the seroprevalence is. But if you don't design those studies well, you might really be way off the mark, despite testing tens of thousands of people. JONATHAN DYER: Sure. If we could just get back to antibodies and antibody testing, once you begin to learn all this information about the level of antibodies in someone's blood, and what that might mean for their ability to become very infected or infect someone else, what do you do with that information, beyond just understanding what has happened to an individual person or a group of people? Is there a way that this could actually help us combat this new coronavirus? MICHAEL MINA: Absolutely. So I think that-- I think the real strength of testing for antibodies lies in the public health aspect of the data, not so much in the individual health. It's good for people to know their serostatus, I suppose. But where it's really-- the most power is understanding where are the populations, for example, that have the greatest amount of immunity built up versus the least. So we could take two extreme-- we could take an extreme example. New York City is sort of, in the US anyway, becoming an extreme example. If we go and do serological testing, we might find, a few weeks ago it was 20%. It might be 25%, or so. So what we can do is, we can actually look in different communities. And we can say, this community or this nursing home or the city has, let's say, in a few more months or a year from now, has 70% of their population is zero positive. That's important information to know, because you can figure out how to best allocate resources to public health needs, and know where do you need to do the most enhanced surveillance. If a community has already reached herd immunity-- which no communities have, in large part, so far-- but if they do, then that's an extreme example of where maybe, you don't have to put so much enhanced surveillance there, and actually focus on the places where there's a big immunity gap, where there's very few people who have been exposed yet. And you might really want to worry about those as being the next place where you might see a big outbreak. So that's one way. You can use it to sort of allocate resources and develop risk profiles for communities, to understand where might there be a big outbreak in the future, and where might there be less risk in this future, as well. JONATHAN DYER: So you're fairly confident that the presence of antibodies would actually confer a fairly high degree of immunity? MICHAEL MINA: I think that this isn't going to be a virus that goes against-- where the immune response to this virus goes against everything we know about viral immunity. HIV was one virus where that kind of really changed our perspective of what having antibodies looks like. But for the most part, acute respiratory viruses like this, the kinetics follow what other respiratory viruses that we've seen. I think despite the fact that we don't have good, solid data yet from individual level data, I think most immunologists and physicians and epidemiologists, myself included, assume that people will develop some level of immunity. We don't know what. We don't know if it will be perfect immunity. Probably not. Or if it will be partial immunity, maybe they can still get some infection, but it might not be severe the second time around. And we don't know if that might happen within a few months of having been exposed the first time, or maybe an immunity wanes over a year or two. And then, on the third year after your first infection, you can get mildly sick again. So we have to figure out what all of this means. But I think, in general, we will see that people do develop an immune response that is at least partially protective. But probably it won't be a very robust protection like we see with measles, for example. It will probably be somewhere in between, where we get some partial immunity. JONATHAN DYER: And where do you stand on recommending whether people should go ahead and get their own antibody test, which there are hundreds out there. So it's fairly easy to get done. What is the value in knowing your own status, or the risk that you could actually, maybe, not be as protected as you think you are? MICHAEL MINA: Yeah, I think actually, at the moment, the individual, the real-- like I said a moment ago, the power of the antibody testing is really in the public health databases and public health sphere. An individual getting an antibody result back to them, at this moment in time, I think can give them some peace of mind, that if they thought they were infected in the past, then they can confirm that. But I really do still warn that there is not-- that we don't know yet, at an individual level, just what the risk of infection is, and how protected or not somebody might be. We have to do the studies to really understand what level of partial immunity people might have after being infected. Can they still get an infection? And in particular, even if they're not getting an infection that causes themselves to feel very ill a second time around, one of my big concerns is that people might get an antibody result back that's positive. They might throw away the mask and go see grandma and grandpa in the nursing home, not recognizing that just having an antibody positive test does not necessarily mean that you can't still acquire the virus again, and transmit it on to grandma and grandpa in the nursing home, or elsewhere. And so, I think that we have to really have the messaging for the public, be very clear about how to interpret their antibody tests, if we're going to start giving these back to people. JONATHAN DYER: This question just comes from Facebook on that topic. Is there a role for someone's physician in interpreting antibody test results, including knowing what a patient's medical history is or might have been? MICHAEL MINA: I think that the physicians-- what they can do at this point in time-- I would say that the role for physicians is to explain to people all the caveats. Explain to their patients the caveats that come along with having an antibody, at this moment. It doesn't necessarily mean that you can't get the infection again. It doesn't necessarily mean that you can't spread the virus to somebody else, if you get exposed again. And so, I think that, at the moment, with the data that we have in hand, physicians-- we're all sort of in the same position. We're waiting for our studies, for the various studies that are ongoing, to come out with some results that can give us some better understanding. Hopefully, within the next few months, we'll have some first data sets that come out from these studies, where we'll actually be able to say if a physician gets a report back, maybe it will be something like, yes, this person is positive for the antibodies but is below the level needed for good protection, or is above the level needed for good protection. And we're hoping to find what that level might be. But at the moment, we just don't know it. JONATHAN DYER: This question is coming from Cindy McCormick of the Cape Cod Times. With the coronavirus being so new, is it even possible for antibody tests to be sensitive and specific enough to provide adequate information for individuals being tested? Aren't there a lot of false positives that could put people, who believe they're protected, in jeopardy? MICHAEL MINA: Absolutely. And that's why we have to ensure that any of the antibodies that we are using-- any of the antibody tests that we are using-- are a very high grade test that are really cutting down on the numbers of false positives and false negatives. There will still be false positives. Even HIV tests, which are very good and very specific, get false positives. And so, we have to always interpret antibody tests in the context of clinical care. And it might even be worthwhile doing what we do with HIV, for example, where we actually do two different antibody tests. If somebody's positive, we confirm it with a second antibody test that's looking for a different antibody, but also against HIV. So that might be a direction that we go, where it's one test alone might not be sufficient. Whether we really need that for an acute viral infection is a different question. But I think we have to-- I want to make it clear, that having some tolerance for a false positive and a false negative is normal in clinical laboratory medicine. It's just that we don't want those numbers to be big. We don't want it to be 2% of all positives are false. That's an intolerable number, I think, for these tests. We want to have it be smaller than that. And some tests are that good. And some of them are not. So I would say talk to your physician, if you want to know what kind of test you're getting. JONATHAN DYER: Is there a role for the FDA and the CDC in refining that, narrowing down the sort of hundreds of tests that there are out there, right now? MICHAEL MINA: Absolutely. And I think that the FDA came in a little bit late here, to try to contain the numbers of tests. And now they're doing it. And a lot of the tests that were materializing on the commercial market are now being withdrawn. I definitely think that there is a lot of room for the FDA and CDC to come in, and create pretty clear guidelines and metrics. There is a lot of people getting into this space who have, maybe, never dealt with antibody tests before, but now have decided to take it upon themselves to become an antibody tester, an antibody testing facility. And for those of us who spend our lives studying antibodies and testing antibodies, we see a lot of the problems inherent there. But we also see that there's a need and a space for a lot of people to join and to help with the cause. And I think that if that is done safely, it really needs FDA to create guidelines, to create metrics that need to be achieved, which they're doing. And also, what I would really throw out there for the FDA and the CDC is to create very well-structured panels of blood specimens, for example, that a new facility that wants to start testing has to request this panel of samples, and has to pass all the validations of those samples in a blinded fashion, for example, to be able to start off running their tests. That might be one way to go. JONATHAN DYER: This question has come in online from Philip, who says the Broad Institute shared progress on a new crystal-based test that, potentially, could be used by folks at home, much like a pregnancy test. Is this a test for active COVID antibody test, or some combination of the two? Do you see this RNA based testing as potentially fruitful? MICHAEL MINA: Absolutely. I know all about that test. And I think that home testing for the virus, whether it's looking for the antigen or whether it's looking for the RNA of the virus, those are going to be powerful tests to have. More so even than the antibody tests, because the quicker you get your results of being currently infected with the virus, the quicker you can act on that information. Whereas, just knowing the antibody data, again, I think that's better if that lives within the public health domain. And they're not as time sensitive. Getting this virus information is crucial. And if we can get those tests to people in their homes, so that they don't have to go to a physician's office and infect somebody else by mistake, that's great. I do think that these CRISPR-based assays, these tests, will get there. I think that they will be useful for this. There will also be, potentially, paper strips that look like little pregnancy tests, that will look for antigen. So we're going to see, in the next few months, a lot of these different tests for the virus itself-- or pieces of the virus-- will start to become increasingly available in new formats. And they will be very important. The challenge will be to make sure that the data-- if somebody is positive-- that there is some clear way for that individual who tests themselves at home to let the Department of Public Health know that they're positive, so that contact tracing and outbreak mitigation can take place. JONATHAN DYER: We've had a couple of questions come in around international efforts on this. This writer says, I understand that Israel and Germany are both attempting to do antibody testing on a representative national sample. Could you tell us about those efforts, how these countries are executing them, and how they hope to use the results? MICHAEL MINA: Yeah, everyone wants to know how widely has this infection, has this virus, spread within their communities or their countries. Spain just came out with a very large study of over 60,000 people, where they were they found somewhere between 4% and 6% of the population has been infected. So these are crucial numbers to get. The US is a very large country. So getting one number for the whole country is going to be difficult. We'll probably see it happen city by city, and state by state. But the way that these numbers are used is to understand, again, where we are in terms of our risk as a community. If we found, for example, that 50% of the United States was already infected-- I want to be clear that that's not a reasonable number-- if 50% was, then all of a sudden that really changes how we think about the future risk in terms of outbreaks, and the size, and what we need to do to prepare. More likely, we'll find that as a country, we're below 5%. And having that information is important for us to know, both to understand how quickly did this virus transmit through the community-- 5% is still millions of people, if that's what it ends up being-- and so we'll have to understand, how quickly did it spread? And what's the risk going forward? How much pre-existing-- how much immunity is there? And are we anywhere close to herd immunity? And at this point, I think New York City is probably the closest major metropolitan area to getting to herd immunity. And it's still not even halfway there, but it might be around 20% or 25%. We might need around 70% to achieve herd immunity, or population level immunity. So these types of antibody screens of the population are crucial for public health, just to know where things are at and know how to allocate resources, appropriately. JONATHAN DYER: So can you see a time when herd immunity will be around for COVID-19? MICHAEL MINA: I think so. It's probably not going to be a very long time, though. I think we-- whether it's perfect herd immunity or just like the seasonal coronaviruses, there is a lot of immunity out in the population already for each of these seasonal coronaviruses, those four strains that normally circulate in the world. And so, there is some level of herd immunity with those, because people started getting them as babies. And the whole population has, essentially, been exposed to those strains. It will take a while for us to get there. And many people are hoping that it's going to be a vaccine, instead of the infection. I hope that, as well. That will get us to herd immunity quicker, without having to get everyone infected. I think over years, though, we will achieve herd immunity. But it might be a very long slog to get there. JONATHAN DYER: Another question coming online about international efforts. A number of countries starting with Chile are looking at using immunity passports, to allow people with COVID-19 antibodies to go back to their lives, as normal. What's your approach on this idea? I know the WHO has warned against it, the idea that you could have maybe a wristband, or an app on your phone, or something that would say oh, I've got COVID-19 antibodies. I'm free to go, as it were. What's your take on that? MICHAEL MINA: Yeah, there's still-- this comes back to the same question, that we still don't really understand what is the role of having an antibody test positive for somebody. Does it mean that they can't transmit? Does it mean that they can transmit? So until we understand more about what-- and this also pertains to how we can achieve herd immunity or not-- until we understand more about how to interpret these antibody tests, I think the term immunity passport suggests, I think, to the average person something that we don't know yet. It suggests that you're probably truly immune. And we just don't know if that's the case. So I would say, we might put people in different risk bins. Maybe if you have no antibodies and you've never been exposed, you're in a high risk category for being exposed. And if you have very high antibodies, maybe you're at a slightly lower risk. But that doesn't mean you're immune, for sure. And we really have to just do the science to figure that out. JONATHAN DYER: Just speaking of risk bins, this question is coming on Facebook from Amanda. What is your medical opinion on schools opening in the fall? MICHAEL MINA: Well, I think there's two ways to look at the question. It's another unknown still, is how much are children contributing to the transmission chains of this virus. And I think that we have to be careful, and very cautious, about opening schools again. At the same time, we have to be pragmatic. Having schools closed down is one of the most socially disruptive things that a society can do. Adults rely on their children being at school, in order to carry out their normal workday. So there has to be a balance. And I think the conversation really has to start being about balancing public health from an infectious disease lens, and public health from an economic and social lens. The thing that we don't want to find ourselves in is, we don't want to find ourselves looking back and recognizing that the shut downs, and the economic catastrophe that came from that, ultimately kills more people and younger people than the virus would have alone, unmitigated. So we need to figure out how to balance these. And thinking about what are the risks associated with opening schools is a central component of that. We need to do the studies, right now. And some places they are ongoing, to understand are kids transmitting. And if they're transmitting amongst each other, do they bring it home to their parents? And what does that mean for the risk to their parents? And we have to take all of this information that we don't yet have fully into account, to really understand these questions. JONATHAN DYER: I just want to just get one more question about antibodies. Is there an opportunity on what kind of research is being done on how, what we know about antibodies, it could potentially be used not just for epidemiological research, but also as a potential treatment? MICHAEL MINA: So neutralizing antibodies and therapeutic antibodies are actually used, all the time. We've been learning a lot about antibodies over the last decade or two, and how to harness them, because they can be very powerful tools to treat infectious diseases. Cancer is all these different things antibodies are actually very good for. And for example, there's antibodies against the childhood virus, called RSV, that seem to work very well. So I think that if I were placing bets on what type of therapeutic agent might come first, I do think that the first really effective therapeutic agent might be antibodies that are produced in a factory, in a company. They're manufactured. And somebody either takes it as an IV or a pill. However people get the antibodies in is going to be up to the companies, to create the right pathway. But we're already seeing-- there's some news out recently, that there are some antibodies that seem to be somewhat protective, or that look like they might be promising in terms of killing the virus, or neutralizing it, in a Petri dish in the lab. And if those turned out to be safe to give to humans, maybe these can actually be therapies, or transition into therapies to give to sick people in the ICU, for example. So I feel optimistic about the role of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, as neutralizing agents for this virus. JONATHAN DYER: And what's your educated guess on what kind of timeline we are looking at for that? MICHAEL MINA: It depends who hits, who strikes gold. If you can-- finding the right antibody can be a really-- it can be like searching for a needle in a haystack. But if you find it, you might really find a good one. And we've increased our ability to screen huge numbers of cells and potential antibodies in a laboratory, in a way that really improves efficiency and time to discovery. And I think maybe, by the end of the year, we will actually have some pretty good candidates. Maybe by the end of the summer, we'll have some good candidates that actually start being put into animals and then humans, for trials. JONATHAN DYER: Unfortunately, we are just about out of time, Michael. But before we do, I just want to get in one final question. In your assessment, when will we see full testing in place that will enable us to safely re-enter society, and get back to something that we can recognize as normal? MICHAEL MINA: I think to get full testing in place-- so the way that I interpret that question, and what I would like to see is, if we really wanted to have an approach that I thought was approaching safe, to really mitigate any outbreaks as they start and get society back and running, I'd want to see something that approaches most people in the world, or at least-- let's focus on the US, since we're here at the moment. If we can get most people in the US a test in their hand that they can use every day-- so these would be cheap tests, maybe pennies or $1 apiece, that's supplied by the government-- somebody has a paper strip that you spit on, for example, every day. You put some saliva on it. And it tells you that day, are you positive or negative. I think that would be the type of real change in the type of testing we need, to have a very safe way to get businesses back without running the risk of large outbreaks. And you know, it sounds a little bit futuristic, the day when everyone can have a test in their pocket, every day. But I don't think we're that far off. There is a lot of companies, just here in Boston and California and elsewhere around the world, that are developing really simple tests that are just, essentially, little pieces of paper with compounds on them that can detect the virus. And theoretically, you could produce these paper strips for in the millions for very cheap. And so, I think that it will take a leap to these new types of testing technologies to get there. But I think that could, potentially, happen. Some of them will be coming out. We'll see them in the next few months, I think. Maybe not to everyone, but we'll see them be trialed in the next few months. JONATHAN DYER: That sounds exciting, and it concludes our Facebook discussion. Thank you again, Michael, for fielding everyone's questions. This Q&A has been jointly presented by the Forum at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health and The World from PRX and WGBH. You can view the full discussions on our Facebook pages, and send feedback @ForumHSPH and @pritheworld. Let's keep the conversation going. 