 Hello and welcome to 1mg health news Here we bring you the latest updates related to health and medicines. In India, 2 more cases of novel Coronavirus have been confirmed. Both of these patients had recently gone to china. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, these two patients are now stable. They have been kept under observation in the hospital. By seeing this Government of India has released a revised travel advisory. Under which all Chinese visa facilities have been suspended. Along with this, those peoples who visited China after 15th January can be kept under isolation for a thorough medical examination. In China, a new 1000 bed hospital has been built in just 10 days. The hospital is designed exclusively for patients with coronavirus. now, the treatment also started in this. In China, more than 14411 cases of Coronavirus have been confirmed until now. And nearly 304 people have died If we talk about the figures around the world So far, 146 cases have been confirmed in 23 countries. and the first death outside of China was of a Philippines citizen. By seeing these growing cases outside China, WHO head Dr.Tedrose has announced the novel Coronavirus as a public health emergency of international concern. This type of public health emergencies has been declared 5 times before For example, H1N1 in 2009, Polio in 2014, Zika in 2016, and Ebola in 2014 and 2019. Some Thai doctors have given a combination of influenza and HIV drugs to patients with Coronavirus. By combining these drugs, progress was detected in several severe cases within 48 hours. Doctors say that this is not a cure but it improved the condition of many patients. Two students returned from China in Madhya Pradesh were escaped from the hospital. These students were kept under observation in different units of Jabalpur and Bhopal hospitals. Even before their samples were collected both students went missing in the hospital. Due to this, there was chaos in the hospital staff and doctors. No news has been received about these two students yet. For more such latest updates, stay connected with 1mg health news. 