 [Prime Minister Trudeau] We know that without a vaccine we don't get through this pandemic. [Reporter] It’s the only way out of this. [Trudeau] We are looking forward to being able to vaccinate Canadians in the coming months. [Reporter] And yet When it comes to a COVID-19 vaccine many Canadians are not looking forward to one. Many are simply not sure which way to go. Vaccine hesitancy. It’s quietly building and putting  public health at a pivotal crossroad. Dr. Theresa Tam is Canada’s  chief public health officer. She spoke to us from Ottawa about what she says is a top priority. How critical is it to capture that hesitant group? It is extremely critical. It is really important that as many people get vaccinated as possible to protect themselves but also others who are at higher risk. [Reporter] Tam has been a sobering face of this pandemic. As the head of the Public Health Agency of Canada,   she’s tasked to inform and  now more than ever persuade. We know that some people have made up their minds and others have not. We call the group that hasn't made up their minds who needs more answers to the questions “the movable middle.” [Reporter] Much of the reluctance is  more reasonable than rigid. Skeptical rather than suspicious. Yeah, I'm definitely not an anti-vaxxer by any means. I believe that they have their place. There's diseases that we were able to eradicate as a result of vaccines and vaccinations. [Reporter] Tanya Hayles has made sure her son is up to date with his immunizations. But those shots have been around for decades unlike the COVID vaccines on the near horizon. I want to hope that there's going to be a time where outside opens again and we can gather without fear. And I know that a vaccine is going to be the first step towards people feeling comfortable with that. I don't even like early tech, right. When a new iPhone comes out, I'm  like, ahh, I'll wait until it works out the bugs and the kinks. And I'm kind of feeling the same way when it comes to the vaccines. [Reporter] So you wouldn't be the first in line. I am not going to be the  first in line for this, no.  [Reporter] Not the first in line,  maybe not in any line.  Despite the rising number of infections the relentless toll on health care. Not to mention pandemic fatigue. Public health numbers suggest up to 35 per cent of Canadians are unsure about getting a COVID 19 vaccine when it’s available. And that number that could go up. Vaccine hesitancy is a real and persistent problem in Canada and it does appear to be growing somewhat. [Reporter] Aengus Bridgman is a researcher at the Media Ecosystem Observatory in Montreal. The group is tracking vaccine hesitancy in Canada. And the misinformation that seems to be shaping it. Vaccine hesitancy is not inherently misinformation. It can contain misinformation and often does but is itself not -- you know, you have very legitimate concerns about vaccines and not be sort of anti-science or anti-intellectual. [Reporter] The so-called moveable middle  may not be anti-vaxxers.  But a barrage of misinformation  online, around everything   from the accelerated speed of vaccine development to pauses in vaccine trials can fuel mistrust. Repeat exposure to misinformation to misleading content can change opinions even if sort of the first time you see something that's very misleading and you go, "oh, that can't possibly be true." You know, you have a generally positive perception of vaccines. If you see it over and over and over again in your social media feed that is the seed of doubt that creep in. It's sort of the familiarity effect, if you will. And over time yes, that can certainly change people's minds. [Reporter] It’s why scientists from around the world recently waged a social media campaign of their own to debunk vaccine myths. Public health officials in Canada are working on one too. Aimed especially at young people who are on social media the most. The strategy includes enlisting influencers on YouTube putting the word out on gaming platforms as well as testimonials from younger  Canadians who got infected with the virus. Tam says that group is especially important. [Tam] Some of the insights that we’ve gained is that those who actually get the information on digital or social media platforms are less likely to get vaccinated than those who follow traditional media. So, I think that's why it is a very key pillar of our approach in the days and weeks and months ahead to be able to get that group of people the information that they need to get vaccinated. [Reporter] But while public health  officials are raising the alarm, Lisa Cottingham doesn't feel  a personal sense of urgency. She’s not against vaccines her son is up to date with his shots. But she’d just rather wait and see. I feel like it's more important  for people that are vulnerable or senior citizens to have the vaccine because they're more susceptible to COVID itself. I'm a normal, healthy adult. Not that I'm not worried about it, I am. But I don't really feel that I need to jump to getting the vaccine. And why is that? I feel like that there's not enough information about it and I'd rather wait and see. I'm happy to wear a mask I'm happy to socially distance from people. And, you know, other people's health is important to me. I just feel like I'm not in urgent need of this vaccine. [Reporter] But if hesitant Canadians become holdouts that poses a risk to herd immunity. With no other health measures in  place experts estimate around 70 per cent of the population would need to be vaccinated to stop the virus from spreading. This is a nasty virus and it's true that most people will survive and you know, not have a bad case but if one percent of the Canadian population gets a severe infection and 0.1 percent of them die you're talking about a lot of deaths. I'm not willing to accept that type of mortality from an infectious disease. To me, that's a high priority for vaccination. [Reporter] Dr. Scott Halperin is with the Canadian Immunization Research Network in Halifax. He’s involved in COVID vaccine trials and is also working with public health officials to identify and address Canadians top vaccine concerns. The speed of vaccine development keeps coming up. When somebody says, well, it takes 10 to 15  years to develop a vaccine. That's correct. You know, in the first several years -- four,  five years -- is understanding the virus itself and understanding what the important antigen is. So what's protective? What does the immune system do to protect against it? A lot of that work was done before because this is another coronavirus. We already had SARS, we had MERS, we had the seasonal coronaviruses. So we knew a lot about this. [Reporter] Halperin says that earlier research gave vaccine makers several years of a head start. An unprecedented global collaboration  streamlined administrative steps too,   shaving several more years off the process. Ultimately, Halperin says it comes down to a collective responsibility. I think if we want to get beyond restrictive public health measures the population is going to really need to  buy into vaccinating. Protect themselves and to protect their communities. The same reason why we wear masks. We're doing that to protect other people. That's the same thing with vaccines. Vaccines are to protect yourself, but they're also there to protect others. It's very important for the community to buy into that we're all protecting each other by doing this. And by doing that, we can get back to a normal life. [Reporter] Normal life that hinges on Canadians’ acceptance of a vaccine. And, their trust in one. Tam says that will be a key message going forward. Our Health Canada regulators,  I would say, is one of the most   stringent regulatory authorities in the world. And they will not approve a vaccine unless they are satisfied that they've seen the data and that the benefits far outweigh the risks. So I think that's really important for everybody to understand. Even after the vaccine rolls out, there is a massive work on the  way to make sure we monitor   the vaccines on an ongoing basis [Reporter] The road ahead will be a cautious one. The hope is the shadows of  hesitancy will only last so long  on the promise of better days ahead. Ioanna Roumeliotis, CBC News, Toronto. Yeah,   