 Here are a few webinar details. We have muted  all participants to prevent any any background   noise. There will be Q&A session at the end of the  presentation. Please type your questions in the   Q&A section as you have them and we will answer  questions in the order in which they are received.   Also, please make sure to type each question once.  With that said we'll go ahead and get started. My name is Robert Rodriguez I'm one of a few study  abroad counselors for the International Education   Office (IEO). Now, we'll get started by talking  about our office. The International Education   Office is the one-stop shop for undergraduate  study abroad opportunities. At our office you   can consult with our study abroad advisors,  coordinators, and we can connect you with peers   who have studied abroad themselves. Today I'll  be leading this webinar for First To Go Abroad. Here's a quick overview  over-view. We'll be discussing   a few topics today. Ranging from Covid  19, program types, credit, program costs   and funding, steps to apply and addressing  parent/guardian concerns regarding study abroad. Study abroad and Covid 19. As of now, all  summer programs and beyond are scheduled to run.   While programs are scheduled to run, UCLA and  its partners like UCEAP, are closely monitoring   developments regarding Covid 19. This is to  insure the safety of our students and faculty. Due to the pandemic, the UCLA IEO are  considerate of go-no-go decisions.   Unlimited double enrollments for UCEAP  where students enrolling in UCEAP   programs during the academic year can  maintain their UCLA enrollments for   the term plan to study abroad for  an extended period. In addition to   go-no-go decisions, virtual alternatives for  select programs are currently being developed   by our coordinators. More information will  eventually be posted regarding virtual   alternatives on our website. Which we'll  discuss a little further as we move along.   Also, we're working in an ever-changing  environment. More than ever,   students who desire to study abroad in  the near future will need to be flexible   as factors outside of our control may  change plans unexpectedly. Finally,   we would like to encourage you to renew or  apply for a passport as soon as possible. We   know the U.S. Department of State has an extensive  backlog of passport applications. It is currently   taking longer than their usual six to eight weeks  processing window. We strongly encourage students   who can to apply for or renew their passport now  for as soon as possible. To ensure they have a   passport in a timely manner. A handful of programs  will require you to secure a student or visitor   visa before departure to enter certain countries.  This may require students to have a passport well   before their departure date. This information  is for U.S. citizens traveling with American   passports but similar delays may be occurring with  your nationality's passport processing offices. Now we'll begin to highlight the study abroad  options that are available. So we have four.   First, here is Travel Study. A UCLA faculty-led  program. UCLA Global Internship program and   UCLA Global Cities. These first three  options are summer-only programs.   Next we have UC Education Abroad programs. In  addition to summer, UCEAP also offers Fall,   Spring and year long options. Now,  I will begin to highlight specific   program samples for each type of program.  First up we have UCLA Summer Travel Study. The summer Travel Study is led by a UCLA faculty  member that will be traveling with you and   teaching courses on site. Also, leading  excursions. Registration will officially open   November the 18th. That's next week so it's coming  up and in order to secure a spot a $200 deposit   is required. The program length is 3 -  6 weeks in duration and the coursework   for Travel Study programs are pre-selected.  In other words, these courses are guaranteed   to transfer back to UCLA without any  steps that you would need to take. Here's a sample program. This sample  program is located in Denmark. Time frame   four weeks. Highlights are shared facilities,  and several program excursions. The coursework   there you see Scandinavian 50W and an  example of what it satisfies. The diversity   requirement and writing requirement. Next up  we have the UCLA Global Internship program. This is a brand new program. All internships  are credit bearing and all internships are   unpaid. Here you'll see a snapshot of what the  structure of the Global Internship looks like.   The program length, number of units and courses.  The in-person and virtual options are also   provided there and registration opened earlier  in the month of November. The second to be exact.   In order to secure a spot  a $200 deposit is required. Here are a few examples of the  internship placement tracks.   You see Australia, and South Africa. For  engineering you see Japan, Germany, and Canada.   For public affairs and global affairs  Colombia, Ireland and Vietnam. So as   I mentioned, this is a brand new program. So  I would encourage you if you're interested in   internship opportunity, to take a  look at UCLA Global Internships. Here's a sample program. Time  frame summer eight to ten weeks.   The highlights obviously  the internship opportunity   that will be available to you. The excursions and  of course an internship class is also listed here. Next up we have UCLA Summer Global Cities.   The Global Cities program is a unique  collaboration between partner universities   abroad and UCLA. It offers a comparative  perspective through coursework and social   events that highlights the creativity,  economics, social political and cultural   background of the host cities. It provides  the opportunity to enjoy a unique academic and   cultural experience that combines credit bearing  courses with special events. In this program   the first half of Summer Session A you will be  abroad with the host university. The final half   of the program, which is Summer Session C you  will return to UCLA along with the same cohort   and complete the program. As of now, there are  three different options. We have Amsterdam,   Barcelona and Milan. All courses are approved by  UCLA for credit transfer. Registration will open   November 18th and will close April 1st. To secure  a spot in this program a $200 deposit is required. This is a sample program that we're highlighting.  This one is specifically in Barcelona. A summer   program. The highlights includes social  exchange program and UCLA Summer Sessions.   Satisfy GEs and possibility for  select major/minors via petition. Finally we have UCEAP programs that offers  summer, Fall, Spring and year options. While abroad, you will maintain your UCLA student  status while participating in any of the UCEAP   programs that are available. Opportunities  consist of satisfying general   ed courses, major requirements, internships, and  language programs. Eligibility requirements will   vary from program to program and will consist  of a GPA and class level. Few programs will   have a language requirement. As long as you  maintain eligibility and meet all deadlines   you should be going abroad. There's no  application fee required to submit a UCEAP   application. First come, first  served for most programs. I'm highlighting a program. Yonsei University in  South Korea. As you can see this program offers   Fall, Spring and year-long options. You can see  the range of dates. In this case a month to month   perspective when you can expect to be abroad. The  type of credit that's available is also provided.   Other highlights include internship/volunteer   opportunities and a language buddy  program with local Korean students.   Also, courses are taught in English. Most  courses through EAP will be taught in English. Here's a few examples of subject  areas available. Sociology,   economics, psychology,  philosophy, and communications. Now we'll be getting into the  academic part of this presentation.   Course review is available before you go abroad.   You will meet with your academic counseling units  to discuss the courses you plan on taking abroad.   For example, if it's for your major, then  you will meet with your major department.   If it's to satisfy GE requirements, you will meet  your general counseling unit. Please make sure   to keep the syllabi and all documents received  while abroad. Including class handouts and notes   to support your petition when you return. When  you return that's when you officially petition to   have these courses meet specific requirements you  intend to fulfill. To gather course information,   you may visit the UCEAP course catalog.   These courses have been previously pre-approved  for UC students to take abroad. The type of   information you will find include a course  description, number of units, title of the course   and the website will also confirm what  courses are lower div and upper div. Most programs are not designed around specific  majors. You're not obligated to take courses   within your major. For example, you can fulfill  GEs. If you're a transfer student, for example,   you're very likely to be done with GEs and  language requirements. But may be thinking of   personal/professional development.  That's also an opportunity   as well and you still make making  progress towards your degree. Program Funding UCLA financial aid is available  for all study abroad options we   just highlighted. UCLA Travel Study, Global  Cities, Global Internship and UCEAP. As long   as you are eligible for the FAFSA, you may submit  FAFSA/Dream application by the priority deadline.   Award amounts can be made up of  grants, loans, and scholarships. Several scholarships are available on  our website. Also, on the UCEAP website.   You may also look into the Scholarship Resource  Center, which is an office here at UCLA   that offers additional scholarship  opportunities. So there are several   opportunities and we would like to encourage  you to take a look these opportunities   and become familiar with deadlines and  criteria and make sure to plan to apply. How to apply for programs. Attend a study  abroad info session, which you are doing now.   Clarify your study abroad goals. Think about  what academic goals you would like to fulfill.   For example, are you looking to fulfil  major requirements/GEs? Are you looking to   get an internship and build your resume  and get some hands-on work experience?   Maybe you'd like to research maybe you're  thinking about graduate school and to get   some research experience participating  in your research program may be ideal.   Consult with your academic and  major advisors. Here, at the IEO,   we do not have academic advisors. We can help  you prepare for that conversation and describe   what it looks like but we are not academic  advisors. We can help you navigate through   our website through the application process  and help you with any questions you may have.   For all study abroad options, each one will have  its own individual online application. Hardcopies   are not necessary. For all  programs you can apply online. Here you will see the website for Travel Study  and Global Cities that will lead you to the   application. The eligibility criteria. Competitive  or selective. Most programs are first come,   first served. A very few number will  have a limited number of number of spots. Here you see the links for Global Internships and  UCEAP. UCEAP will have a few number of programs   that are have a limited number of spots.  When you visit our website, specifically,   the deadlines calendar for UCEAP, you will see  the programs that have a limited number spots   and it will also tell you if the spots  are taken and if a waitlist has started.   If a waitlist started you can  add yourself to the waiting list.   Again, the eligibility criteria  will vary from program to program. Addressing Parent/Guardian Concerns Given that most of our applications, when they  open, you will basically be applying anywhere   from six months to a year in advance. Which is  plenty of time to share information and discuss   your plans with parents or guardians. Telling  them early and being transparent will be key.   Informing parents/guardians that studying  abroad is an academic experience.   It's not a vacation. You will earn units from the  host universities that will transfer back to UCLA. All programs are credit bearing. So if  you sign up for an internship, research   opportunity, or just take classes, all of  these opportunities will offer units that will   count towards your graduation progress.  Share health and safety information.   With Covid currently impacting the world,  many questions might come up regarding safety.   Our website and the EAP website are equipped with  an FAQ regarding Covid. We would like to encourage   you to visit these resources and stay informed  and updated regarding current events. Covid   is being closely monitored and the  websites are updated as events develop. You may get the question,  how will you pay for this? You can share financial aid and scholarships are  two resources that can help pay for a program.   You may get the question will they cover 100%  of the program fee. Well you can reach out to   your financial aid office which do have a team of  financial aid counselors for study abroad. Also,   so before you contact them, I would like to  encourage to visit the financial aid website.   On the financial aid website they have a video  that talks about financial aid for EAP programs.   So any questions you may have or any questions  your parents may have may be answered by the UCLA   financial aid website. Also, explain the value  of a study abroad experience. If you're looking   for work experience through an internship to  build your resume. To practice a language that   you've been learning or to learn about a new  culture. Visit historic sites. You know these   are great experiences that are available  through a study abroad opportunity. I think   this will help family and friends understand  the importance of study abroad experience.   If your parents or guardian have questions about  your application or the study abroad in general   you may grant them 3rd party to discuss  programs like Travel Study, Global Internship   and Global Cities. Granting third-party access  through MyUCLA is the only step necessary   to allow us to have an open  conversation regarding your application.   Since EAP and MyUCLA are two different systems you  will need to grant third-party access also in the   EAP application portal. It's a very quick process  that takes anywhere from two to three minutes.   Once that's done then we can have a full-on  open conversation regarding your program.   This is necessary due to student privacy rights.  As students you have the right to privacy   and in order to discuss openly your application we  need your consent and also we need you to list who   you would like us to have that conversation with  and through this process you can enter the name of   a parent/guardian you would like to allow access. A world of resources are here to help you.   Detailed program information on our website.  One-on-one appointments with study abroad advisors   and appointments with your  academic counseling units.   If you wish to be connected with a fellow student  that participated in a program, we can make that   connection. This is a very common request that  we receive from students that would like to   learn what the experience was for a recent  participant. Also, health insurance is also   provided and there's a pre-departure  orientation available to help you prepare   before you go abroad. This resource will help  you learn about you know the processes that's   carried out through UCLA and  also an opportunity for you to   know additional resources and also an  opportunity for you to ask questions. Finally I would like to encourage you to  visit our website and take a look at the   Diversity and Identity Abroad page. This is an  opportunity to listen to student testimonials.   Students here share their experience abroad  and and you can learn a lot from this.   In addition to student testimonials, there's a  page or a tab dedicated to first gen students.   This tab has some resources and some questions  you can ask yourself when when it comes to   planning your broad experience. So there's a lot  of information so we definitely would like for you   to take a look at this in addition to testimonials  and tips on communicating study abroad with family   and friends there are some tips on funding  and general resources. This is a brand new   feature to our website. It was added not too  long ago by my colleague, Eric Izaguirre,   who did a great job in helping put this together   for our students. I would like to encourage you to  take a look at this and hopefully come away with   some valuable resources to move forward  with a study abroad application. I would also like to highlight the Global Learning  Opportunities Week (GLOW), which recently passed   but the webinars that ran throughout that week are  available online on our on-demand sessions page.   So there are several webinars ranging from summer  programs to Covid 19, pre-med opportunities, and   UCLA financial aid. So there are several for you  to take a look at when you have some time to look. Please take a moment to join our email newsletter.  Sign up to receive study abroad program updates   and communications today. This is the QR code  that's available for you. Eventually, this webinar   will be posted on our YouTube account and  you will have access to revisit this webinar. This is our office contact information.   We have a virtual advising feature. Please feel  free to visit our website for virtual advising.   You may also reach out to our office  directly at info@ieo.ucla.edu.   Please feel free to also follow us on social  media. We have facebook instagram and twitter. Now I would like to open it up for Q&A. Eric: We don't currently have any  questions so we'll just give it a moment. Robert: Okay so if you have any  questions please submit in the Q&A box   and we'll wait a couple of minutes to give people  time to think about any questions they may have. Eric:   So Robert we received a question what's the  link for the on-demand slide you were just on? Robert: So here on the third bullet point you will  find the link address to the on-demand session. Eric: The next question are there  deadlines coming up for these programs? As of now deadlines coming up for some of the  EAP programs. We do have some December deadlines   so I would encourage you to on the same  website you will have access to accessing the   EAP deadlines calendar. If you go to ieo.ucla.edu  and then click on on the calendar you will see   the December deadlines. For the summer options  Travel Study, Global Internship, and Global Cities   will be open by the end of the month well  before the end of the month excuse me. Eric: and the next question is  about housing so can you share   if there are different housing options while  studying abroad on a campus host family etc? For Travel Study, Global Cities and Global  Internship housing is part of the program.   For EAP housing is also available. For EAP some  programs may have one type of housing which   may be the dorm and other programs may have  multiple housing options. For example, one   program can have dorm, apartment and a homestay.  So it really depends on the program. So if   you're looking, for example, a homestay experience  maybe browsing for different programs and then   taking a look at the housing options and  you can see if homestays are available. Eric: and the next question we have where we have  if we are planning on doing the UCLA Travel Study   but it gets cancelled due to  Covid will we receive a refund? Robert: so Travel Study will have their own   policy regarding refunds since I am not a Travel  Study advisor I would recommend reaching out to   our office to clarify that policy. It is  very flexible I can say that but again you   know I don't want to say yes or no without having  that clarification since multiple programs will   have individual policies regarding the deposit  but it's something we can answer very quickly. Eric: okay that was the last question that  we have but just another one came in so   is there a more popular study  abroad destination in your   opinion? Rober: It really depends on your academic  goals. I would say if you're looking to   fulfill major requirements, some students will  take a look at programs that offer the most   major courses available. Or for example if you're  interested in research then that really narrows   your search because you know there there's only  a few that will offer that opportunity. So maybe   getting an early start on researching these  options. But to answer your question there's no   it's hard to say what's more popular was  probably more popular than the other because   every student is different every student  is looking for something different   it may be internships it may be the outdoors it  may be um there's maybe family somewhere you know   that students will be able to uh um save  housing costs and stay with someone so   it really varies the say is go with the program  that offers the best of what you're looking for. Eric: the next question can you both share  your contact one more time so we can reach out? Robert: yes so if you have any questions  about let's say the deposit for Travel Study   or where to find it you can visit our virtual  advising or you can visit our website and take   a look at the Travel Study tab or you can email  our office directly. There are definitely multiple   ways to reach us. Feel free to use any of these  options in order to get the information you need. Eric:   are there study abroad programs specifically  geared towards visual arts majors? Robert:   toward visual arts majors there are several  ways to search for that if you look at the UCEAP   website there is a a filter feature. Where you  can search for programs based on subject area.   In this case you can you can search by visual  arts and in addition to that you can also search   programs based on the term you wish to look  for whether it be summer or Fall and so on. Eric: okay so it looks like we don't  have any more questions coming in. Robert:   okay I would like to thank all of you  for for being here this morning. Taking   the time out of your day to join  us. If any questions come up later   you have our information. You know how  to reach us please do not hesitate to   contact us. We'll be happy to help you  throughout your study abroad process. Eric: Robert we just got two more questions. So  the first one is is there a cheat sheet where   we can get a quick guide to all the steps so  i assume this is about the application steps? As far as a cheat sheet we don't  have necessarily a cheat sheet. But   this webinar will be available you can see  the two slides and I'll go back so you can see   for example it tells you where to  apply and it gives you the the website.   The application process for each program is not  very long. Anywhere between 15 to 20 minutes   you can complete the application process but  all of these programs are housed on our website   ieo.ucla.edu. On our website you will find all of  our program options and the application as well. Eric: and the last question I'm seeing when  is the earliest quarter to study abroad? Robert: you can go as soon as this summer of  2021. But if you're looking for the academic year   you can go because you apply basically  six months to a year in advance.   So if you apply now for a Fall program then  you will go next fall. So if you're looking to   you know even participate in multiple programs  that's also available. You know 56 is the unit max   that you can take abroad and bring back to UCLA.  So if you plan it right that's that can be three   different programs. I've had students do at least  two programs one student was able to do three   so it is doable and possible to do  more than one program. But if you're   looking to go as soon as possible,  summer of 2021 is the earliest. Eric: there are no more questions  right now perhaps there might be   some more that trickle in but at this time  it looks like we've gotten to all of them. Robert: okay thank you Eric I really appreciate  you taking the time to read the questions.   Thank you all for attending this webinar.  We look forward to working with you.   Please do not hesitate to contact  our office if you have any questions.   Please enjoy the rest of  your day thank you so much. 