 Vice President, Education & Youth Transition at the National office of Easterseals in Chicago. She also serves as the Easterseals Director of the National Center for Mobility Management, funded by the Federal Transit Administration. Judy has over thirty years of experience at Federal and national levels in education, human services, and technical assistance. We also have Genelle Thomas, the Director of National Initiatives at the non-profit organization, Partners for Youth with Disabilities. PYD provides one-to-one, group, and online mentoring to youth with disabilities to help them build healthy relationship skills and ensure that they are successful in their communities. PYD also provides training for youth workers and organization on how to be more inclusive of youth with disabilities. Genelle is passionate about empowering organizations to become inclusive environments that support youth of all abilities to reach their full potential. And then finally, Janelle will have a conversation with Austin Carr about his personal experience as a transportational advocate. Austin lives in the Boston area and actively engaged as self-advocate for many different organizations for the last several years. Particularly, with the Easterseals group leadership group as a PID, intern and a ( away from mic ) Austin also hosts a weekly radio show at -- school for the blind. And Austin also has cerebral palsy.  We see your messages about the audio and we are working on it. We have asked the speaker to move a little closer to the microphone. Danielle, if you like, you can get started.  Hi. Thanks all so much. I appreciate you, including the US Department of Transportation on today's webinar. As the speaker discussed, my name is Danielle. And I work at the Federal Planning Administration, which is one of the operating divisions at the US Department of Transportation. And if you go to the next slide, I just wanted to share with you an initiative called the Coordinated Council on Access and Mobility or CCAM for short. CCAM was started back in 2004 by an executive order by George W. Bush. The mission of this council is to issue policy recommendations and implement activities that improve the availability, accessibility, and efficiency of transportation for three targeted populations. So those being individuals with disabilities of all ages, older adults and individuals of low income again of all ages. You would be surprised but there is actually 11 federal agencies involved in this coordinated council. And across the organizations that you see on the slide, we fund a total of 130 different federal programs that can fund transportation. What people are most surprised by is the majority of the program aren't actually at USDOT who is the chair of this organization. They are actually under HHS which is the Department of Health and Human Services which fund 66 of those 130 programs. And people are usually surprised to see the Department of the Interior ( away from mic ) organizations that they actually fund three specific tribal transportation programs under the interior. So on the next slide, I just wanted to share a little bit about who we are at the Federal Transit Administration. And so we fund over 10 billion trips annually to our public transportation customers. And we have over 4000 different public transit providers across the country. And I included the screen capture of the map there to show you. And if you go to the next slide, I just wanted to share with you one of our programs. We have several different programs here at the Federal Transit Administration. But the one most important I think to the audience on today is our Section 5310 program. We call everything by the section of the law. But what that program is, is the enhanced mobility of seniors and individuals with disability programs. And with that is the program that goes to each state DOT based on census data specifically based on the number of older adults and people with disabilities in each state. And then the state DOT puts the money out to local communities to improve mobility access for the targeted population. The one thing I wanted to share today about this program is this program statutorily requires what is called a locally developed coordinated human services transportation plan. And what this is, the plan that identifies the transportation needs in older adults in communities and then has strategies for meeting those needs. And the purpose of this is to prioritize the funding because there is never enough funding. What should each state prioritize. And if you haven't seen it, there is a map there, you can click on your state, find your local community, and see your current plan. And if you go to the next page, I wanted to give you one example of a program, a local program. And this one is out of Michigan. And this is how an example of how Michigan is spending some of their Section 5310 funds. It is a local program that focuses on children and youth with disabilities teaching them to become self-advocates for biking and alternative modes of transportation, which has shown to improve their self-esteem, foster healthy lifestyles. And there is a link to the program there. And the program has since grown to become also an active transportation program where teaching these youths with disabilities to also become advocates in their community and with peers. And if you to go to the next slide, I just wanted to share that the Coordinated Council on Access and Mobility has a pilot program that goes out annually and they just announced in October of 2019, this year's program. So unfortunately, it is already closed and no one can apply right now, still reviewing applications. But it will be open again next year. And the pilot program is about increasing access for all. And so we are very excited. We will be announcing the winning application later this winter or in early spring. And then we are going to have another notice of opportunity that will be out next year. So stay tuned. And then the next slide shows a three, two-day course called advancing mobility management. The goal of this program is to get transportation stakeholders and disability community in a room together in any region holding the course in all ten regions over the next two years. And the goal is to get nontraditional stakeholders together at the table to find programs that work in their communities to increase access. And so the course includes hands-on materials, showing rural urban and suburban programs in mobility management in travel training and at work and how to replicate those in your own community. So if you are interested, click on the link there and you can register. And my last slide is the next one. I just wanted to leave you with some free resources. Here are three of our technical assistance centers that we fund. The top one there, the National Center for Mobility Management, you are about to hear from Judy Shanley in just a moment. But the other two, I just wanted to share, the National Aging and Disability Transportation Center. This is a partnership that we have with the HHS, Administration for Community Living. This is a great program with resources and annual community grants. Those centers provide annual planning grants for 25,000 and implementation grants from anywhere from 75,000 to 150,000 to help communities come up with innovative solutions and really prepare them to apply for STA's larger grant. And the last center there, the National Rural Transit Assistance Program. If you are in a rural community, this is a great resource. And with that, I want to pass it along to my colleague Judy Shanley. And I look forward to answering any questions that you might have at the end. Thank you.  Hi, everybody, this is Judy. Thanks Danielle. And thank you to NIH for cohosting this webinar with us. We are so excited and I am particularly excited about the opportunity to talk about transportation and mobility as it relates to transition and youth with autism. I work as a number of years for a vocational rehab counselor and ( away from mic ) and I also worked as a transition coordinator. And always was frustrated that I work really, really hard in strategy and assessment and career counseling and yet students couldn't get jobs. They couldn't go to college because they didn't have transportation. So I am very excited to be working on this topic. The next slide just gives a review of what I am going to be talking about. First, we will talk about -- the next slide -- the challenges and opportunities. And you know very well some of those challenges and opportunities. And we will talk about those strategies that I learned working at the national level and local level. And we will hear from Janelle and Austin to give you an example of a program that has been implemented successfully to address transportation advocacy. I am going to be talking about mobility management resources because mobility management represents opportunities for those of us who are in human services and direct services and really engaged with transportation providers and transit systems in communities. And finally, I too will be looking forward to any comments or questions that you have at the end. The next slide again previews who we are. I am the Easterseals director of NCMM. And I also oversee my work at Easterseals national level the education and youth transition. And we will be hearing from Janelle and Austin. And in the next slide this is a motto of mine, "If you always do what you've always done. You'll always get what you've always got." And this was in a book entitled "Fierce Conversations." by Susan Scott. And it is really looking at the whole challenge of transportation in new and innovative ways. And the next slide. And it has always amazed me that we have got all of this legislation and policy across school settings and higher-ed settings and workforce and things like LRE and inclusion and home and community based services. And we have got legislation like the ADA and the higher-ed opportunity all reinforcing the notion of inclusive transportation. Doesn't it make sense to think about inclusive transportation options for individuals with disabilities, especially those with autism. Since we have policies and the settings that promote inclusion, we also have to think about how these policies extend to inclusive transportation. On the next slide, I want you to think about why does mobility and transportation pose a barrier for student transition. And it is really important to think about the root causes of why transportation is a challenge. And the next slide are some of the underlying reasons. Students may lack knowledge and skills. Students may be fearful. And this is particularly important for students with autism who may have sensory issues and are fearful of crowds and noise and the stimulation that maybe, maybe found in large transportation modes. Families may be fearful. It could be that students use a personal vehicle with their families to get around with their life and now they are transitioning to post work settings. So families don't have any experience themselves with using any other mode than a family car. And also teachers are fearful. We as educators and service professionals want to protect the individuals we work with. And we may not have any experience using any kind of transportation modes other than driving a car. So we may have fears or anxiety associated with encouraging the students that we work with to use transportation. It also may be connection, there may be lack of connections with public transit. When I go out and I do workshops with school districts and rehab agencies and transition coordinators, I ask how many of you have connections with any of the mobility management or public transportation systems in their communities. And more often than not, they are saying that they don't. And then conversely when I go to public transit forums and I speak with transportation providers and transportation planners I ask how many of you have had experiences or have relationships with school districts or vocational rehab or adult service agencies. And few of them do. So I think that really understanding including the fact that there may not be transportation options in rural communities. But I hope what you learn today is there are more options than not and maybe those that you haven't even found. And especially in rural areas, transportation can be inconvenient. all reinforcing the notion of inclusive transportation. So doesn't it make sense to think about inclusive transportation options for individuals with disabilities. Especially those with autism. Since we have these policies and the settings that promote inclusion, we also have to think about how these policies extend to inclusive transportation. On the next slide, I want you to think about why does mobility and transportation pose a barrier to student transition? It is important to think about the root causes why transportation is a challenge. And the next slide are some of the underlying reasons of students may lack the knowledge and skills. Students may be fearful and this is particularly important for students with autism who may have sensory issues and are fearful of crowds and noise and the stimulation that maybe sound in large transportation modes. Families may be fearful. It could be that students use a personal vehicles with their family to get around most of their lives and now they are transitions. So families don't have any experience themselves with using any other modes but a family car. also teachers are fearful. We as educators and human service professionals want to protect the individuals we work with and we may not have any experience using any kind of transportation mode other than driving a car so we may have fears or anxiety associated with encouraging the students that we work with to use transportation. It also may be connections or lack of connections with public transits. When I go out and do workshops with school districts and rehab agencies and transition coordinators, I ask how many have connections with any mobility managements or public transportation systems in their communities and more often than not, they are saying they don't. and conversely when I speak with transportation providers and transportation planners, I ask how many of you have had experiences or have relationships with school districts or vocational rehab or adult service agencies. So I think that understanding these root causes and including the fact that there may not be transportation options in rural communities. But I hope what you will learn today is that there are more options than not and maybe those that you haven't even thought about. And especially in rural areas, transportation could be inconvenient. It may be a long distance between where a student lives and where a transportation mode may start. so thinking about the convenience. And then cost is certainly a factor and understanding root causes. But the most important thing on the next slide, this is what really under lies the work we do. And the focus on transportation. This is from Chicago public schools and one of the youths said I feel like I am independent. I don't need to depend on my mom and dad to take me places. Now I can ride the bus to get to my job and to the movies with my friends. And it is all about spontaneous choice. All about our youth getting to places that they want to go when they need to go when they need to get there. And it is spontaneous choice. here are some of the stages that we learned about that really can help transitionals and engage in transportation education. I mentioned before family and students may be fearful about using transportation or exploring alternate transportation modes and we worked with several school districts around the country and rural areas and in suburban and urban areas. They held a transportation summit and it was really neat because at the summit it was students who learned to independently traveling. And where they were learning how to use transportation and we established the peer mentoring program for those students and we also had businesses on a panel there and the businesses emphasize to families how important it was to have reliable employees and important it was to be independent. And have their employees have reliable transportation. we also have done resource mapping. I was working with rural areas in Ohio with Ohio school districts and students were engaged in projects where they did a map of all of the transportation services that might be available. And looked at faith based organization and whether any of those organizations had vehicles that just sat there. I was working with our affiliate in Iowa and went to a summer camp program that they had and there were 30 wheelchair accessible vehicles just sitting in the parking lot and I thought oh my gosh what a great opportunity to use these vehicles to transport people to jobs to health care, to support youth and obtain these jobs. so when the students in the school district used this resource mapping they identified transportation resources that they never had thought about before. Also, including mobility and transportation in the IEP. And also in pre Ed. Mobility and transportation part of those goals and the outcomes that you hope to focus on. Inviting transit professionals into events. Transportation professionals love working with school districts. The students that are leaving schools represent the future revenue for transportation service providers. so the earlier the students can get familiar and accustom to various transportation service, the more apt that they are probably going to use that service when they leave high school. I mentioned transportation related projects and service learning. in another school district we worked with, the students did a preposition to the local school board about the need for transportation. So students were empowered. So they were, in their own voice they were talking about -- how important it was for them to have available transportation services and how their voice mattered. Looking for grant opportunities. Danielle mentioned the CCAM work and 130 programs that support transportation. I suggest that you go and the link was provided to the FTA website where those 130 programs are. If you have any of these programs in your local community or state, knock on the door of the people that administered those grants and find out whether any of those funds can be used for transportation for those students. also, integrating transportation content into professional development for educators. I had school districts that went to the agencies and got brochures about the services that the provider offered and left the brochures in the teachers' lounge as the provider offered and left the brochures in teacher her colleagues about transportation. Simulate bus using classrooms or nonbus setting. For students with autism, the sensory associated with riding a bus and people on a vehicle with lots of people may be overwhelming. So one school district we worked with simulated a bus in a classroom. They had seating and students would get used to sitting in different places on the bus. and finally peer to peer mentoring programs. That is truly an effective way of educating youth. so in rural areas, you know, where routes may not be geographically. How many of you know if you have volunteer programs in your community? The corporation for national community service using a lot of their funds through senior corp and aAmerica corp. That is a viable service for our students. And also in rural areas there are much more demand response systems. And those are systems that when the individual need arrives they call and get the service. So those are much more prevalent in rural areas. Because of the demand for a fixed route or dedicated bus lines or trains or high volume service may not be warranted in those places. also, in rural communities we see much more engagement by employers and health care. We are working with communities in rural parts of Ohio and employers because employers need dedicated employees and they have to get them to work and they are part of providing a transportation service to the community. They are actually paying for it and part of conceptualizing and planning health care providers too. Health care providers need people to get to their medical appointments. That is a huge data associated with the cost of missed appointments. And so thinking about -- thinking about nontraditional kinds of service providers is really important. I have also heard of an uber like service like an organic ride share program that pops up in rural areas. So maybe a ride board at a local organization with people that are traveling to employment site or a particular geographical area of a community or they sign up for people to give them rides. I think in rural areas by nature, they have to be entrepreneurial in thinking about the transportation. and the next slide, I want you to begin thinking about how do you build connection to transportation. How do you develop connections with transportation providers and services that maybe you not have not even thought about. On the next slide, the two audiences that you could build connections with are the actual transit systems, the transit providers and mobility managers. And on the next slide, mobility management, that is the field that I work in is simply connecting network in the community. So thinking about what the customer needs are including students, including adults, including older adults and those with low income and building the transportation networks. And they have people that are doing this coordination called mobility managers. And on the next slide this is how you can find out about whether your community, what transportation services may be available. Certainly or project, the national services for mobility management we provide direct system. So I encourage you to access our materials and also for mobility management we provide direct system. So I encourage you to access our materials and also contact time line is. What is the status of the issue of the RFP for the grants. And contact your local mobility managers and be a part of the discussion. If there is local mobility meetings, be engaged. I was working with a school district in Texas and the student and the community coordinator attended a meeting and the transit agency had no idea that the students needs to get to after school job. So what they did by having the student and the coordinator at the table, the transit agency was able to change their route and it didn't interfere with any of the school transportation, public transportation because the bus was still available to the public but it deviated, it went a block in a different direction that had previously had and it picked up students from the school that needed to get into city center to go to jobs. And if the student and the coordinator had not been at the meeting, the transit provider would never know that the need existed. on the next slide here is the URL to our center. And we help communities build these systems, build these coordinated networks and build mobility management. And on the next slide it gives you an overview of who we are. We have been around since 2013 and there are three organizations that are part of our center. Easterseals, public transportation association and community transportation of America and we are funded by the federal transit administration. and the next slide, I am all about Mottos and this is something that resonates with me. Always believe that something wonderful is about to happen. And that is how I feel about transportation and transition. We are learning about the different strategies. And it is amazing and dynamic and I am glad that you are all interested in this topic. So on the next slide is my contact information and I look forward to having discussion with you at the end of the webinar and after feel free to reach out to me. Thank you. And I will turn it over to Janelle Thomas  I just want to break in. I want to note for all participants we will send a PDF of all of the slides to you using the e-mail address that you provided when you logged into the web ex. Thank you.  Thank you. And thank you Judy, before I dive into my part of the presentation, I want to make sure that you can hear me clearly. Can you enter into your chat if you are hearing me well. Okay. Good. Looks like everybody is hearing me well. Well I am really excited to be here to talk to you about a project that I affectionately call the Tammy project or the transportation advocacy. And I work with partners for youth with disabilities. And you will hear me refer to parters for youth with disabilities as PYD. And we have been around for almost 35 years with a real focus on ensuring that youth and young adults with disabilities live with dignity, purpose and pride. And in an effort to meet that goal, we focus on a number of different direct service programming options within primarily the New England area. But my role is to oversee our national support for organization to speaking to become more inclusive and to take programs that we have seen work within PYD's network and help other organizations to replicate them around the country. and as I mentioned earlier, because we are focused on dignity, purpose and pride, it is very difficult for youth or young adults to have dignity, purpose and pride if you don't talk about transportation as part of the equation. It is absolutely the top barrier we see to youth participating in after-school programs and recreation and employment opportunities including internships and ultimately employment. So for people with disabilities we see over and over how transportation is the most significant challenge. and so next slide, please. And so as I mentioned, I am hear to talk to you about Tammy, or the transportation advocacy mentoring initiative which we piloted two and a half years ago in an effort to find one way to overcome this kind of obstacles and this kind of obstacles and because PYD is focused on mentoring as an intervention, we decided to focus on mentoring as a way to decrease transportation barriers and so this is as I said, this is a demonstration project where we paired young adults with disabilities from Massachusetts with young advocates with disabilities from Michigan. and these young advocates in Michigan were also young adults, mostly young adults who had intellectual disabilities. But who had already experienced success advocating for inclusive transportation options. And these young adults who were the peer mentors in the program, they were from an organization called PE AC. And it has been very successful in teaching young adults with disabilities to advocate for inclusive transportation options so we thought that our young adults in Massachusetts could learn from that. We did this through a series of mentoring and because of the geography we did everything online through live video similar to what we are doing here and the young adults from Massachusetts learned from the Michigan young adults to prepare to engage in their own advocacy project. we were really pleased to be funded by the department of health and human service, the administration of community living through an agreement with the community transportation association of America. CTAA. And collaborators were Easterseals parters for youth with disabilities and PEAC. Next slide, please. so I know I am probably preaching to the choir when I share this slide, why is this project important? Well, lots of reasons. One I shared with what we have seen with transportation being a key if not the most key barrier to youth success, young adult success transitioning into adulthood. So we wanted to help young adults think about inclusive mobility options. We wanted to assist transit providers to consider the voices of youth with disabilities in service planning. We wanted to impact change and improve the range of accessible transportation options and we also thought it was important to highlight the viabilities of careers in transportation to the young adults who were being peer mentored from the young adults in Michigan. Next slide, please. and so there was a step by step project implementation that we did and I really believe that this focus on project implementation helped us be successful and I will talk about that a little more later, the keys to our success. But one thing I want to also share is as a result of this project we did publish a guide book for any community that -- or any organization that is seeking to replicate this type of model and that will be sent out to you after this session and it talks specifically about what to do, how to do it. And there are some videos to give examples of what we did so I hope that is helpful to folks. So the steps were finding the collaborators, the recruitment of the advocates, a peer mentor training. We thought it was incredibly important to empower our peer mentors in Michigan to understand what the role of being a mentor was. we spent time building trust through introductions and getting to know you. And we had the learning sessions. Then took our learning and put it into a tangible advocacy project that was completely difn by the advocate. We had close sure exercises and evaluated the project. so as I mentions, since it was the first time we had done the project and it was a pilot, we learned a lot and we also identified some keys to success, things that we think had we not done we wouldn't have experienced the same result. So next slide. So we felt like our keys to success were that number one, we recruited a very diverse group of young adults to be our advocates in Massachusetts. And part of what made this group gel together is the diversity of the group both in terms of geography, background and disability. We had many different types of disabilities represented in this group and we also had it be an application process. And I think that was important because all of them came to the table with some sort of prior leadership change, you know, it might have been basic, it might have been more advance. But we were able to identify advocates who had these kinds of skills. we also had the support of training for the peer advocates or peer mentors in Michigan that I spoke of. Most for the peer advocates or peer mentors in mish don't know what it is. So training and empowering ahead of time was critical to that group feeling like they have the skills and the knowledge to be helpful to the advocates in Massachusetts. it was a process driven completely by the advocates, our team put up some structure in terms of the implementation of the project. But everything else was advocate driven which I think was really improved the learning gains at the end. And we also had clear and realistic metrics for the evaluation. We didn't expect that you know, that we would change the world in a six month series of sessions. But we did know that we could make some changes. And so we measured those in terms of learning gains, short-term learning gains and we are really pleased with those results. one other thing before I introduce my friend Austin Carr is to say one other success that we did have which was unexpected is that when the team of advocates in Massachusetts conducted their advocacy project, it did lead to results in Massachusetts in terms of how the public transportation system operates in one way and I can have Austin share more about that. So I am going to introduce Austin Carr to you. He is a person who participated in the project and has become a friend and a colleague of mine as you heard from the introductions at the beginning Austin is a man about town. He assists so many organizations to be better and lends his talents in so many ways so please to have him share his advocate perspective. So he and I are going to  have a conversation and let you all be flies on the wall. I am going to interview him and he is going to share from his voice what he experienced as being a part of the project. So hi, Austin, how are you doing?  Good. How are you and thank you for having me on today. Can you hear me okay?  Great.  I can. I can hear you loud and clear.  Okay  So this is going to be fun for us to talk about the TAMI project. Why did you apply to be a transportation advocate?  Well, I applied to be a transportation advocate because I felt like it was important to hear transportation stories from other youth with disabilities and hear their stories of transportation and how to resolve issues for the whole disability community.  SPEAKER: And what did you learn from the peer mentors in Michigan.  I learned that out of -- sometimes it takes more time than we think and when we have more than one voice, we realize that -- faster.  I think both of those are true. Advocate can take time especially if you are trying to make systems change. And I do agree, our collective voices are usually stronger than our individual voices. Great. Can you describe what your team did, what they chose for their advocacy project and how they carried it out?  Yes. We chose to work on is under that terminology for people with disabilities and we wanted that kept and to be more acceptable and there was only one location at a time and at that time the place to get it was in downtown in Boston.  So Austin, thank you for helping to explain the terminology to folks. The TAP card is a low fare card. The team found that it was only one place to get the card and it was downtown and it required for you to know what you are doing on the public transportation to get there to even apply for this. And so am I understanding correctly that your team wanted more acceptable ways to apply and receive your TAP card.  Yes, that is correct.  Okay. Super. So tell me what did you do to get your point across to the MBTA?  After a little information, we found in the group to write a letter to the MBTA, like a personal testimony almost about why we were taking this project up to make more accessible. So we wrote a letter to the head of the MBTA and we heard back within a few months.  Yeah. That is great. I think you made a really great point about that you added personal testimonies to the facts and figures of the letter. And if I am remembering correctly, one of your teammates hand delivered the letter and you followed up with an e-mail as well. So you covered all your bases. We have found that your advocacy made a difference. Can you tell folks how the MBTA changed and now you can order your TAP card and also receive it in a different way and so how that?  You can now receive and order your TAP online and receive it in the mail.  Yes. So that was a very unexpected result. We knew we were going to advocate. We knew we were going to have our voices heard but we did not know we were going to impact change so congratulations to your group for that.  Thank you.  You're welcome, Austin. So what did you learn from participating.  I learned from participating that you really need to be persistent in what you are asking for and share personal stories and everybody has, everybody on the team has a little different perspective. So each participant has added value, added unique value to the story. And that authenticity really came across in the letter.  Oh, yeah, that is a really good point. I agree to that. The personal stories did add authenticity. So now how are you learning the skills that you learned?  I am able to navigate my transportation system with my friends and brother more effectively.  That is great. That is a wonderful win for everybody when they learn how to use the transportation system more effectively. I think the other real positive to this, Austin, is that because you are so active in the Boston community and such an advocate around disability and disability rights, you're going to take that knowledge of transportation and knowledge of advocacy to every organization that you assist now and even to the individuals that you work with and talk to and I think there is going to be a ripple effect that we can't even know now just because you are going to be able to share your skills and your knowledge from your participation. So really gad that I had the chance to work with you on that project. And thank you for being here.  You're welcome, Janelle. Thank you for all you do too. and does anybody have any follow-up questions, I will be throughout the remainder too. So feel free to ask me any questions too.  That's great. Thanks, Austin. So that is the remainder of the presentation for Austin and I so I am going to turn it back over. Oh, here is a picture. Before I turn it over, here is a picture of Austin and Austin's brother and one of the former staff people and current mentors at PYD. Eli. And you can see the picture of them getting ready to ride the public bus. So thanks, everyone.  Thank you, so much. All of you. I don't know if you guys. Have to thank some people who are listening for sharing your expertise. We have had a few questions and I am going to start in reading them off in the few minutes we had left. Also, too, we will send the PDF of the slides which will have all of the resources in it and the guide book that Janelle spoke about through the e-mail that you signed in through the webinar. And the question that came through that maybe on a lot of peoples' minds has to do with ( Inaudible ) transportation services. So this question can be for any of you. Any of you familiar with any communities that are working on developing sensory transportation services or, and if not do you have thoughts on how someone might get started on working on such an issue.  This is Judy. And I think that transit agencies want to increase ridership. And one way they can do that is by having a comfortable, safe, good experience for all passengers and that includes any sensory experiences that they have. The sound, and the way that buses are made, the way transportation is made, the vehicles themselves are a lot more protective in terms of sound. I don't know of specific public vehicles that are necessarily sensory sensitive. Danielle, do you have any information about that?  This is Judy again, if you are trying to identify the best options for youth, thinking about the sensory needs of that individual is really important. So maybe encouraging that youth to ride a bus or a vehicle at off peak time when it is not so chaotic, or frenetic is a good choice. Having them wait at places that are sound protected for an individual. I don't know of particular vehicles that are being made for individuals with autism. Sound muffling and headphones are used for students with auto itism that I worked with and other ways to mitigate the sensory stimuli that might be available for a large crowd.  We have funding available for technology advances travel training app, way finding. So there is, if someone is interested in innovating in this space, our funding is eligible to be used for it. I am not familiar with anyone innovating with our funding to do this yet. I think there is a need. And hopefully others are interested in getting into that space.  So I think you may have gone through this Danielle before, just to recap, how can people find out what services or opportunities are in their community? Was that what you showed?  Great question. Firstly, I would suggest starting on slide four where I talked about the section 5310. Two ahead and click on that, the national sphert for mobility management, we fund Judy and two other colleagues. They manage a website there. As well as implementation grants so you can apply directly to our -- they are a little bit more, as I am told tough.  So this is great information. Thank you so much to all of the speakers. Someone asked if there is a certificate for participating in the webinar and we don't have one, but if you send it through e-mail with your e-mail address, when you get the slides if you respond and send an e-mail that you need a letter saying you attended the webinar, we can provide that. So thank you again to Judy, Janelle, Danielle, and Austin. This was informative. Thank you so much.  Thank you for hosting the webinar and to everyone that participated.  Thank you. Bye-bye.  Bye 