 [Rosemary Barton] There is mounting global pressure on the World Health Organization to answer to critics who say it was too slow in its response to the coronavirus from when it was first detected. And too trusting of the data it got from China where the outbreak started. [Trump] Severely mismanaging and covering up the spread. [Rosemary] Its credibility questioned. [Scheer] We've got serious concerns about the accuracy of the information coming out. [Rosemary] Even its role challenged. But the organization which compiles and shares data from 190 member states around the world is also seen as valuable. Canada will always be there to support science and the work done internationally. [Rosemary] Including by Dr. Theresa Tam, Canada's top doctor who sits on the committee that oversees the WHO health emergencies program and uses much of that scientific evidence to chart the way forward for Canada. There are questions being raised by the way the WHO has handled this. The way they've dealt with China. The fact that they took the information from China at face value. Do you think that those are fair criticisms? I think it's a very difficult job to do. Honestly, I think the data is what it is. You're going to have to work with information at the time that you've received and it may be incomplete. No but should they have assumed that because they were dealing with a country that isn't transparent that the information they were getting wasn't accurate that the problem was probably worse than China was letting on? I think we have to remain open to different scenarios and the international community of the top experts in this area of work. Also maybe if because of the evolution of the knowledge may have all underestimated where this would have gone. The estimations of how transmissible the virus was and how severe it was was unclear at the start. The loss of containment really with the spread to other countries outside of Asia and outside of China I think was something that people underestimated globally. Do not think that the WHO and I know you play a role on the WHO that we would need some sort of post-mortem in terms of how they how they did things early on. I think it's always worthwhile to examine what went on especially after such an extraordinary and unprecedented event. We would always want that and look at what could be done better. Like our warnings maybe not every country took it as seriously as they could but in Canada we stood up our response really really early and started. getting the country prepared. But absolutely I think a reexamination of what went well what didn't go well. In the end though, I think the spirit of the IHI is that every country has to share information. So it's not just up to the WHO, it's all member states actually have to do what we said we were going to do. Right and so they'll be lessons learned from both sides. You have been attacked by the Alberta premier Jason Kenney. This is the same Dr. Tam who in January was repeating talking points out of the PRC about no evidence of human-to-human transmission. The conservative leadership Canada Derek Sloan's asked the question does she work for Canada or for China? How do you feel when you hear those kinds of comments? Well, I mean first of all I know that that is false information. But you know as I've said I'm really busy focusing on the actual response and that is what I'm here to do and I don't do this alone. It is a collective response so that is a really important point. I mean this started early on of the kinds of attacks you get on social media. Much of it racist, some of it misogynist. I would like to know how you experienced that or do you? Yes and I think maybe I just sort of compartmentalize it. I don't know I think everybody comes with these things a little bit differently. One of the things I worry most is stigmatization of certain populations and I spoke out on that knowing how we treat people in different ways affects people's health and that's how I sort of look at it and stigmatization leads to poor health outcomes and it does not help our collective response. So I think the only way to get through this is do it together and one of my roles as the Chief Public Health Officer is to speak to Canadians and bring them along. That's what I worry about more than any individual attack on me personally is that I am the credible voice and in order to maintain that credibility in order to provide the kind of messaging that would bring Canadians along so that they know what the advice is. So I think that is what I'm trying to preserve. There are now 49,025 confirmed cases including 2,766 deaths. When you give your briefing each morning you start always the same way. The number of cases, the number of deaths. Those are people that we're talking about and I wonder what that's like for you to have to say that every day. It is actually very difficult and I think behind the sort of calm sort of reporting to give people the actual facts is in our brains and I think in our hearts is that we're moving along with the emotions of the population. We feel extremely impacted when we hear about and look at the long term care home outbreaks. And knowing that every number that I utter is someones family member. In the way that I've always worked is I imagine that the person or the Canadian sitting in the middle of everything that I do. I think that what is difficult is that this pandemic has of course shone a light on the health inequities. Yeah, but it is a societal challenge. It's not a single person. It is how we value and support our elders and our seniors. And I think all of us needs to re-examine   what we need to do going forwards. You you talked about your cautious optimism. Can you right now give people a sense of how long they have to dig in this way? How long should people be expected to feel this far apart? So far apart from people? So I think the reason why we have some optimism is that we are seeing this epidemic slowing down. But until you have actual an immunity in the population we know that people's lifestyles will have to be adjusted. I think public health is asking well here are some of the parameters. Come up with a plan of how your workplace could potentially be redesigned. Have you shift a bit differently. You stagger people coming in so that you're not just your work shifts but maybe your public transport means that you're not all crowded at the same rush hour. Those are the kind of ideas that will allow I think some of those measures to be eased off a bit. But I think my concern right now is that the cost of re-ignition of the epidemic is huge. I just have the image of New York City in my head. And think I would never want that to happen anywhere in Canada and if we let things resume too fast we may get that kind of surge. I think we need to plan in any case for all of that surge should still be in place. I'm still planning ahead to what will happen in the next winter season when there's not just living with COVID-19. You're going to get influenza. You're gonna get the other viruses and so being able to prepare for that is part of the new normal as well. How hard is that to know that people are sort of getting to the end of what they can handle emotionally and mentally. All of us feel a little bit fraught at this point, I think, right? Yes, so I do think that this sort of juncture is a particularly difficult one where people have contributed so much already and you try to say it's a bit like running the marathon and sort of hitting a bit of that wall and you go, there's still another ten kilometers before we're kind of here. It is tough. I think looking at blocks of time is important so you can't look too far ahead, let's look at the next two weeks. Last two weeks and thinking OK, there are signs that this this curve is bending. You're now seeing some jurisdictions being able to get to that next phase soon. And so I think those little steps and a little bits of progress is what gets people going. Are you a worrier, I don't know if you're a worrier? You said the other day you're working about 20 hours a day. Do you lie in bed and get stressed out? What do you do to help yourself? I know you don't like talking about yourself but -- Yes, it's interesting. Yeah, I'm a fairly private person and a bit of an introvert. But it's true I do feel a bit tired. But I am fully cognizant of the fact that when I advise our team to make sure you know you keep your mental health up and your physical health as well that I might not be the best example. And that I need to do better on that front. Thank you very much for all this time. I appreciate it very much and I would shake your hand but I'm not allowed to. [Dr. Tam] That's right. [Rosemary] You'd be very mad at me. So Rosie, you got a lot of information from Dr. Tam and you pressed her on some of her advice to government. What's your big takeaway? Well first of all, I think just the speed at which all this has unfolded the pandemic and the many, many unknowns and the way in which the public health agency and Dr. Tam have had to adapt and evolve their advice over time leading to some really unprecedented government decisions. Stopping cruise ships, shutting down international travel, shutting down the Canada-U.S. border. Much of this was pretty much unimaginable just six weeks ago. And when you ultimately think back to the interview was there something that you were hoping to get out of it? You know, the Chief Public Health Officer is really there to offer her best scientific advice. It is the government who makes the decisions. So this was about getting Dr. Tam to explain some of the thinking behind that advice but ultimately it's the government behaviour that must be examined must be held to account which is happening now and which will happen more going forward as we learn more. All right, well very insightful interview, Rosie thanks so much. Thanks Andrew. 