 We're speaking with two of the most  innovative healthcare leaders in the world.   Dr. John Halamka is president of the Mayo  Platform. Dr. Daniel Kraft is the founder of   the Exponential Medicine Conference and  a professor at Singularity University.  I've been at Mayo Clinic since  January of 2020, and I was charged   with running platform businesses globally.  Of course, what that means is connecting   producers and consumers of information using  algorithms and mobile technology and creating   value, new businesses, and new ways  for Mayo to extend its reach worldwide.  Daniel, tell us what you're working on right now. The focus this year has been COVID. I've been   chairing the XPRIZE Pandemic Alliance Taskforce.  The alliance is made up of 100 organizations from   NGOs and academics to big startups and small  ones, trying to connect the dots and accelerate   solutions for this pandemic and to prevent future  ones, and integrate some prizes like a rapid COVID   testing prize and a new PPE mask challenge, so  trying to connect the dots and accelerate things   to help things out in the current day as well  as catalyze the future of health and medicine.  John, you're head of the platform at Mayo  Clinic, and so when we talk about platforms,   what do we mean and why is this  important? Then, Daniel, please weigh in.  Let's start with, say, radiation oncology or  radiotherapy, what is called auto-contouring.   If a cancer patient needs radiation, a linear  accelerator needs to be programmed by a physicist   and an expert radiation oncologist. It takes 6+  hours of human time to review the films of the   tumor and then program the linear accelerator. What if one developed a cloud-hosted mechanism   to ingest images of tumors—say head and  neck tumors—AI algorithms that would be   able to review those and, in literally near  real-time, recommended the safest, lowest dose,   most effective mechanism of delivering the  radiation therapy to the patient and then   auto-programmed a linear accelerator thousands  of miles away without a radiation oncologist   or a physicist nearby? Well, there's a platform  that is connecting incoming data and algorithms,   delivering something of value back and,  ultimately, improving patient care. That is   one example of what Mayo has worked on this year  and will have in prototype by the end of 2020.  Broadly, platforms are connecting  producers and consumers and building value.  That sounds fantastic, but how do the radiation  oncologists feel about that since often the   challenge of platforms are the misaligned  incentives because they're changing   someone's lunch or moving someone's cheese  and that's often harder than the technology?  What if, given your training in radiation  oncology, instead of doing one case a day, you can   do ten? What if instead of working in proximity to  one town or one region, your scope becomes global?  The way I think about platforms is it's  enabling us to deliver a higher quality   of specialty services to more people in more  geographies, democratizing access to expertise.   At the same time, obviously, there is a  business in doing that that creates value.  I love the fact, Mayo and your  work has often been global but,   like politics, medicine is often very local.  We've trained both in Boston. That's the way   you do it in MGH versus the Mayo or the Stanford  way. Now we can kind of crowdsource learnings,   whether it's from China or Europe, into these  platforms. Is interoperability still a challenge?  The answer is it depends.  Isn't that a great answer?  DICOM, radiology images, yeah, okay, fine.  It's a nonstandard standard. Philips,   Agfa, Siemens, and GE, they're slightly  different in the metadata, but the core   images are actually pretty comparable. There is, actually, for radiation therapy,   DICOM-RT. Believe it or not, every LINAC  in the world is programmed using the   same set of APIs. Hard to imagine. Let's take something else: EKGs.   Have you ever written for—pick your EKG  manufacturer—a parser and display tool for   EKGs? It's like a Ouija board. Every manufacturer  does something closed, proprietary, and unusual.  In certain domains – the U.S. CDI, FHIR, HL7 V2,  DICOM – it's good. Telemetry and consumer devices,   not quite there yet. I'm still not quite   there. I just had an imaging study back in the  spring at Stanford. The only way I could get   my cardiac study was on a CD-ROM. I don't even  own a CD-ROM player anymore, so there are still   some of those dots to connect. That would be true.  What kinds of platforms are necessary  in order to provide the kind of results,   John, that you were describing? Why don't I start off with just a high-level   look at what Mayo has built, because it  illustrates the kind of componentry you need?   Mayo has 154 years of patient data. You say, "Wait a minute? How could that   be?" Well, remember the medical record  was actually invented at Mayo Clinic.  Back before TCP/IP, we had pneumatic  tubes, conveyor belts, and chutes.   You have paper. You have photographs. You  have audio recordings – all this stuff.  We had to create a platform by which we could  take all kinds of medical data, deidentify it,   aggregate it, and then put  it in an encrypted container   for various algorithms, developers,  innovators, and partners to work against.   That was our clinical data analytics  platform, deidentification storage.  Next, we wanted to be able to deliver care at  a distance for serious and complex care, so we   built a mechanism by which cloud-hosted  components can be used for outpatient monitoring,   dashboarding, taking care plans and rules, and  helping us take care out of bricks and mortar   that's serious and complex,  not just ambulatory visits.   Then finally, new ways of ingesting the kinds of  data that Daniel and I were just talking about   and building mechanisms of doing data  transforms, so you can normalize a whole   lot of these new data sets. We've built all  three layers of components in the cloud.  The key part to follow that seems  to be, whatever platform you're on   – there are some really amazing ones – all need  to work into the workflow of the clinician who   doesn't want to have to log into ten different  apps or ten different platforms. Is there a Mayo   experience that's synthesizing that since you're  an integrated platform? What advice would you   have for others who are trying to integrate? I  always like the example, from data to actionable   information and that actionable information then  works at the bedside or on your mobile device.  Daniel, of course, and I have worked together  since 1994, so he knows the hard questions to ask,   which is the back-end, the AI, the data, the  normalization. That's not the hardest part.   The hardest part is the workflow. You start asking yourself, "Well,   okay. It depends a bit on your use  case." EHRs have FHIR CDS hooks. Okay,   there's a means by which inside the workflow with  an EHR, in some places, can call out to a cloud   service and get a response. Okay, that works. All other SMART on FHIR apps, apps that we would   layer on top of the EHR, they don't really  give you a fractured experience because   it's like an app on your phone, in a sense.  It feels like it's part of the EHR itself.  Oh, and then there are sidecars. Now, these  are not the greatest. I am in the middle of   doing something in Epic or Cerner or whatever  and then my Windows taskbar pops up and here   is an alert or a reminder. Okay, it works. It's  kind of in the workflow. It's a little clunky.  Then you start to ask, "Oh, well, maybe it isn't  the clinician in the workflow that's necessarily   the actor. Maybe it's, oh, a care manager  and they're running a separate application."   Then, "Oh, it's okay because the EHR isn't the  center of the universe. Maybe it's a patient   and they're getting an alert, a reminder  on their wearable or their mobile device."  I think Daniel's question is so key. Ask  who are you trying to change behavior   with and then what is the vehicle by  which you integrate into that workflow?  Where does technology start? When you talk  about workflow and changing behaviors,   that has little to do with technology and  research itself, right? That has to do with just   the propensity, the difficulty of humans changing. I think, as clinicians, often the oil of clinical   care is data, whether it's vital signs or  labs. Now we're having more of it come at us.  There was a cartoon that was done in  Exponential Medicine where there was   the patient with the doc and the doc is like, "I  see the problem. You're generating too much data."  Back to that sort of workflow. How do you  synthesize that now that we have everything from   our digitome, our sociome, our metabolome, our  genome, and then make that actionable? Ideally,   on these new platforms, learn from the clinician  experience around the world, not just the Mayo   way or the Stanford way, and synthesize  the data into its actionable components.  No one wants to see the raw EKG data, blood  pressure, or other elements, but what does it   mean in context and even normalized to that  individual? There are lots of layers to it,   but it's an exciting time. We're  starting to see the dots connect.  What if we agree there's going to be a Twitter  stream connected to your bathroom scale so that,   every morning, your friends, family, and  colleagues see your weight? Oh, well, that's   a daily social network for behavioral  reinforcement. Oh, maybe that'll work, right?  You have to start thinking of who is going to get  what value from what you are doing and use that to   change behavior. No question, that's hard. Part of the challenge is, a lot of these   things—whether it's your scale, your Fitbit  app, or your EMR interface—are sort of one   size fits all. I always like to use the example  of, we don't have precision medicine but we need   precision digital health interfaces that match  the age, the culture, the language, and education.  I've got a connected scale. It's not  connected to Twitter, but that's my   most helpful thing. If I see I'm up a pound  or two, I will cut out the popcorn that night.  To match someone's personality type in  both incentives – you know, carrots and   sticks – I think, as part of that, including for  the individual clinician, nurse, or pharmacist. We   tend to always build the system for the average. Since I'm a pilot, I always love the example   of the cockpit. After WWII, the  Airforce tried to build the best   new cockpit and they designed it for the average  pilot. Of course, no pilot is average, and so   pilots kept crashing the planes. So, something  about the design element needs to come in as well.  Right. and what motivates you? We talk  about social cues or pressure. "Oh,   that may motivate you." What about economics?   What if you agree that every time you walk  by a pharmacy and you're willing to share   your geolocation and there's a coupon that pops  up for a medication or product you might need   as you're in proximity? Oh, well,  that might motivate some people.  If you're a care traffic controller for your  family, being able to get your children or   your parents the care they need more  easily. Oh, that might be a motivator.   These are the much more interesting sociological  parts of platform we have to consider.  John, as you're looking to build  this data aggregation platform.   What are the dimensions that are primary to you?  Where do these workflow elements fit in? What are   the data sources? Basically, I'm asking, what  are you doing and where are you prioritizing?  At the Mayo Clinic, the primary value is the  patient always comes first. That actually   guides work by every part of the organization. We've started to say, "Okay, well, if that's the   notion, which is improving wellness, preventing  disease, reducing suffering, and really making   something that is going to improve the patient  experience, what kinds of things would you do?   We've started to think, oh, okay, how about cancer  risk prediction? How about the ability to do   more rapid diagnosis based on voice or other kinds  of telemetry, or being able to do early diagnostic   testing through AI algorithms that aren't  traditionally used in this particular purpose?  We've started to look at those use  cases. Then, underneath the use cases,   what data elements do you need and how are you  going to get those data elements and curate them?   So much of what I've had to do is, yes, build  the platform, some of the technical components,   but then layer on top of that use cases that  bring value, that improve the patient experience.  Obviously, that then has its tentacles through  the workflows that Daniel was describing earlier.  The ecosystem that we live in, it's patients,  providers, payers, pharma. It's all kinds of new   industry players and trying to connect all those  dots and ensure that you have a coherent whole.  Daniel, did you ever work in the  early days of Google Health or work   on such things like HealthVault? I tried them out. The problem was,   they were just a vault and there wasn't any real  insight or other elements you would get from it.  I think now they're sort of evolving to provide  personalized recommendations or insights. Even   my Fitbit will look at my sleep and  compare me to others my age and sex.   But, yeah, they weren't particularly useful. That is exactly the point I was going to make,   which is, back in the day,  we built these components   and those components turned out not to be adopted  because there was nothing end-to-end that brought   value to you. That's the lesson learned from  the past; we have to apply to the future.  One thing that came to mind, John, with these  new platforms, including all the big data and AI,   some of the great work in Mayo taking a 12  lead ECG and doing all sorts of predictalytics   on what does that really mean. Now others  with ICU-based software that can predict   sepsis or other things early. There's also then the challenge of,   there's no one number to look at. It might be  a synthesized risk score. Then are physicians,   in your experience, being resistant to that? They don't understand what's underneath the   black box. We don't even understand, often,  what the machine learning is pulling from. As   we get more data and sometimes there are magical  insights, almost like the picture of the retina   from DeepMind that can predict heart attack and  stroke, how do we address the challenge of medical   education and using that in smart ways when it's  often a bit murky about where it comes from?  This is a great, great point. There isn't  a Consumer Reports for AI algorithms,   but there needs to be. Which is, I don't mind  so much the black box issue as long as you say,   "Here's the scientific paper. Here's the  validation that was done on the algorithm   with a data set that was different from the  original data set used to develop the algorithm.   Here is the population where it's going  to be helpful to you or the ranges of   utility." As long as I understood that I'm good. To Daniel's point, we have an algorithm that can   look at your 12 lead ECG and predict your ejection  fraction with an AUC of 0.9. It's pretty good,   in other words. Oh, okay. Well, if I look at an  ECG and it just says on it, "Oh, this patient   has a low ejection fraction. You might want to  consider follow-up," it's not replacing me. It's   augmenting me in a helpful way where, like, "Oh,  I would have never thought of that. Of course,   let's get this person an echo. You just need a little bit of   transparency for each of these algorithms  because there are bad algorithms or biased   algorithms we wouldn't want to use. The big challenge is if you're only   doing European Caucasians for your genomics  or your algorithms for your EKG to echo. There   is a lot of bias that can be done. I'm not  saying bad data, but not diverse enough data.  I love the All of Us trial out of NIH, which  enables each of us to be a data donor, sharing   your genomics, medical record, et cetera. They're  starting to share that back. I'm not sure if you   see that's it's useful yet, but it's sort of the  Framingham Study on steroids that will hopefully   make these algorithms much more equitable. Well, and there's no question that the only way   to develop these really equitable algorithms is by  federating our learning because I could tell you,   "Oh, we've developed this algorithm based on  millions of patient lives in Rochester, Minnesota;   Scottsdale, Arizona; and Jacksonville,  Florida." Great. Does that work in Georgia?   How about Southern California? Maybe yes. Maybe  no. But if you brought in, oh, Cedars-Sinai   and you brought in Emory and you federate,  you learn, and train, you're likely to get a   much better generalizable algorithm. We have a very important question   from Arsalan Khan on Twitter who says, "The idea  that every doctor should have access to all the   data needed to make an informed decision is great,  of course, but it's highly dependent upon the   budget of the doctor and the organization they  work for. Less budget means less access to these   platforms and to this data." What about that? So much of what I've been trying to work on   is not only building these things and looking at  the use cases, but asking questions about ethics,   disparities of care, and equity. Of course,  that applies to patients, but also providers.  You ask yourself, "How do you make this stuff  generalizable?" Maybe it's not the best analogy,   but Airbnb is a pretty sophisticated technology  platform connecting producers and consumers but   available to all at low cost with great utility.  Many of these products that I am thinking about   are things like, oh, you can get them on any  website or you could get them on any phone.   It wouldn't be a huge barrier to  distribute a lot of these things.  I think it brings up the idea we talk about of the  social determinants of health, which is super key,   but also the digital determinants of health.  Does your patient have access to a smart tablet   or even not even high-speed Internet. There are  lots of parts, particularly in rural America,   that don't even have low bandwidth access. My perspective is a lot of these technologies   democratize. This is my 11-year-old iPhone  2, which, 12 years ago, was pretty amazing.   Now it feels slow and clunky. But even the power  of this in the bottom billions' hands or the lower   socioeconomic status can be hugely impactful. Now  that you can connect the dots in platforms like   an iOS HealthKit, and now there's  one called CommonHealth for Android,   I think it starts to help  the equity piece as well.  There's no question there's a digital divide,  however you want to look at it—whether it's   geographic, whether it's educational,  literacy, or all the rest—is quite real.   We need to ensure that we are meeting our  customers at their level of technological comfort.  The quick example, which Daniel has heard me give  before, is I had invited a number of very talented   engineers to a Medicaid clinic. They walked over  to a homeless gentleman they said, "What's your   favorite wearable?" His answer was, "Socks." Assuming that you're going to have   Apple Watch Series 6 or an iPhone 12  as a prerequisite is not going to work.  There are sensors in socks, by the way, now  for picking up diabetic foot ulcers, but   there's also a digital divide, I think, amongst  clinicians. The folks who are graduating from   medical school now grew up on all these  technologies. John and I were sort of at the cusp.  Actually, when we met when I was a medical  student at Stanford and he was an ER-resident   at UCLA-Harbor, I did a rotation there. We were  the only two geeks with this Hewlett-Packard   200LX pocket computer where we could take notes  and actually share clinical data. He gave me his   whole database. It was amazing, but we were the  only two using it in the entire probably state.  How do we start to educate clinicians who might  be over the age of 40 to use some of these tools?   I've been thinking about this because  I'm always asked, "What wearable or   app might be best for my patient to use?" I've been starting—it's still a very nascent   version 1—a platform called digital.health. It's  a website where there's a bit of a digital health   formulary, which could eventually enable you to  match the digital tools and solutions for your   patients. That's an example of a platform.  I think we need the educational level for   the clinicians as well to use them  and match them to the right patient   who may not have Internet access or has 5G. This gets back to this concept I had about   Consumer Reports, if you will, which is, let's  look at the user experience or the validity of   a product or service because right now a whole  lot of our clinicians aren't sure what to buy or   what to use. One hopes we get to the point where  a lot of these technologies are just passive.  Wouldn't it be wonderful—I'm of course not  advertising any product or service here—if I   walk over to Alexa or Siri or whatever ambient  listening device you have of the day and just   speak and, oh, a diagnosis comes back? "There's a  67% chance that you have a neuromuscular disease   based on the content and cadence of your speech." I didn't have to do anything other than just talk.   That's the kind of thing I think we're going  to hopefully see more of from these platforms.  John, to what extent are you focused on these  non-technical issues? When you talk about patient   experience and user experience, I separate that  from the hardcore dimensions of the types of data   sources. How do you divide up between those two? Mayo Clinic has two organizations:   the platform organization, which I  run, and the Center for Digital Health,   run by Rita Khan. Does Rita come out of the  tech industry? No, she comes from Target,   UnitedHealthcare, places that have  looked at how does one create a product   for a consumer. All of this usability and patient  experience is parked in an organization with   really deep expertise in that realm. Daniel, as you look forward, how do we   take these innovations and make them accessible  to clinicians? I think this goes back to the   workflow issue that you raised earlier. Well, number one, it's potentially aligning   the incentives or understanding the misaligned  elements. If you prescribe that connected blood   pressure cuff to help manage hypertension,  then that data could come back to you. Are you   rewarded for that as a clinician in some  for or does it not just become a barrier?  I love the Consumer Health Report element.  How do you provide the ability? When you're   seeing a patient in the clinic who has  got hypertension, depressed, is a smoker,   and diabetes, here's a set of not just drugs  but other wrappers and platforms that they can   use and not have them overwhelmed with ten apps  but prescribe a bundle of solutions. It might be   their connected blood pressure cuff and an app to  help them do smoking sensation and something for   medicine adherence. It's integrated  and not scattered amongst ten elements.  Then for the clinician, when you do prescribe  that, hopefully, that's covered by a payor,   in the future for some of these, whether it's  a wearable or an ambient sensing or voice   for diagnostics. Then in the workflow, that  comes back to the clinician in a way that's   actionable and not overwhelming. Imagine you're a primary care doc with 2,000   patients. You don't have that reactive mindset  where you wait for them to show up in the ER   with a heart attack, stroke, or late-stage  cancer. You're seeing a dashboard that might   indicate from their sleep data that their resting  heart rate went from 50s to 70s and something   is going on; you might need to call them. Or  their blood pressures are out of range based on   where you dialed them in. It's complex, but  I think we're starting to get to that realm.  Some of the payors are starting to  think about that digital formulary   and rewarding those elements in a cohesive  sense. The challenge is, we have thousands   of healthcare systems in the United States, let  alone the world, so it's not a one-size-fits-all.  Well, and COVID has had a material impact on  all the things that Daniel has just described   because in, say January, maybe  3%, 4% of our visits were virtual.   By April, 90%. Okay, now November, December,  maybe it's going to be 20% - something like that.  The point being is we've gone from 3% or 4%  to 20% in one year. That has implied that we   needed to get familiar with connected devices  in the home: virtual visits, products that are   commercially available on Amazon for patients to  help navigate a healthcare at a distance workflow.   I think, in many ways, these last ten months have  probably accelerated our industry five years.  My favorite phrase is stolen from Regina Dugan who  used to run DARPA. Sputnik sparked the space age   and COVID is sparking potentially the health  age and accelerating some of these elements.  Part of the challenge—and, John, I love your  thought on this—is we still tend to digitize   things. We digitized the medical record,  which kind of sucks, or the fax machine.   I think, hopefully, COVID as a catalyst is going  to make these smarter systems, not just your pulse   oximeters connected through your virtual visit  but that you do the chatbot visit first that can   really do the triage and the 20 questions. Then  upscale those uses or giving some resiliency to   the system because you can get burnout on  bedside care as well as Web-side care. A   lot of the elements can be almost driven by an AI  or chatbot whether the clinicians like it or not.  Well, and I completely agree that as we move to  more virtual visits as a new normal that it isn't   just taking what used to be a bricks and mortar  visit and making it digital. That's not helpful.   It's asking questions like, "Oh, I  woke up this morning and, you know,   I'm feeling kind of tired." Not really, Michael. "You know this cup of oolong tea? I can't quite   taste it anymore." I go to a virtual visit and  say, "Lost my sense of taste and smell. Feel   tired." Immediately, then I am taken to a workflow  that's going to help me get my COVID test.  "Oh, how should I get that COVID test? Should I  go drive to Quest or LabCorp?" No! It is going to   be delivered to my home, either as a swap that I  would self-administer or a lateral flow assay like   a pregnancy test, I just run myself. These are the kinds of things,   end-to-end, that are new, healthcare at  a distance, requirements accelerated.  What's going to come out of this, even  on the rapid testing, so we're doing this   rapid COVID testing enterprise. There's  lateral flow. There's home-based PCR.   There are already some of the lab-type  things that'll plug into your mobile devices.  Hopefully, these will be platforms we'll  continue to use that you just change the   cartridge and it can check for the  flu or other viral illnesses. Whether   we're going to from hospital to home or hospital  to hospital, we're going to have a whole set of   not just virtual visit tools, but the idea of the  medical trichord or other sort of elements that   almost every home is going to have,  that will dramatically shift how we do   proactive prevention, diagnostics, and therapy. The trick is to get it paid for, the workflow,   interoperability, and the licensing issues. Then  the chatbots will be federated and learn so that   if it's John or Daniel answering the questions and  I've got abdominal pain, it already knows that I   got my appendix out or what my med list is, and  so it's smarter about the triage and the flow.  There's one other thing that Daniel has  invented, Michael, that you need to know about.   We've talked about digital diagnostics but  what about therapeutics? Oh, that's harder.  I think this is just brilliant. Hewlett-Packard  gives you the printer and sells you expensive ink.   Well, what you need is a medication  printer. It's basically free,   but then you have cartridges so that, "Oh, your  doctor has just diagnosed you with this or that.   In fact, that digital therapeutic is now  delivered at a distance because the pill   you need is printed in your home." I bet  you have something to show us, Daniel.  I was not trying to plug this but the idea I've  been thinking about since I trained in pediatric   and adult medicine and, in peds, we weigh every  kid and dose by dose. But when you're an adult,   all of a sudden, you get the same dose of  everything or use a pill-splitter. The challenge   of pill adjustment and combination and the idea  of, essentially, in our digital manufacturing is   3D printing a personalized pill. That might be my  aspirin, my statin, my beta-blocker, my Synthroid.  Some things might need to change  day-to-day like my Lasix dose or Coumadin,   make me measure from my home lab. Then,  eventually, you would have a little home printer.   These are just sugar pills, but this could  be a little home printer that would adjust   your meds for folks going polypharmacy, even just  a couple of meds, as needed on a continual basis.   That's called the telemedicine. There's a TED  Talk about that if you want to see more details.  There are still challenges about regulatory. Is  that automated compounding? How do you build the   sliding scales? How do you build the AI to know  how to best adjust your blood pressure meds,   is a simple example, without the doc being on  the phone and faxing your numbers back and forth.  We have a question first about cybersecurity.  Let's talk about that and then let's shift to   some of the ethical dimensions because we have  a question relating to that. This is from Khwaja   Shaik, and he says, "Cybersecurity  risks are huge for connected devices."   He says, "It's time to adopt micro-segmentation  and zero trust architecture principles to   accelerate secure healthcare outcomes." As  we're sharing all of this data, how do we make   sure that it's secure and not used against us? Well, I'll start off simply by saying multilayer   defense. As we know, antivirus works some  of the time. Firewalls work some of the   time. AI to detect anomalies in data flows  or port use, that works some of the time.  I'm seeing more and more companies evolve to  the question that are offering new approaches   to look for anomalous behavior. They've trained  what looks normal, "Oh, this looks abnormal.   Raise a red flag." There's no question  that these techniques we've heard about,   such as micro-segmentation of networks or zero  trust architectures, are part of the solution.  Isn't the solution just supposed to  be blockchain? I learned and forget   what that means many times. What's your  take on that since that seems to be key?  Now we're seeing, even in the setting of  COVID, hospitals being hacked and held   ransom with ransomware. What's your take on  blockchain since it's a bit of a buzzword too?  Well, as you know, I'm editor-in-chief  of Blockchain in Healthcare. Why did I   choose to be editor-in-chief of that? To tell  everyone what blockchain doesn't do. [Laughter]  Blockchain is a mechanism that really does  help us when we need to have nonrepudiation.   Let's imagine, in a time of COVID, a Pfizer  vaccine comes out and Daniel gets two doses   and now – I'm making this up, Michael  – he wants to go to a rock concert   and the rock concert says, "As long as you bring  proof of vaccination, you'll go in the door."  Okay, well, he pulls out his phone. He's a  pretty smart guy. He creates a phony QR code.   Well, the blockchain notion is,  what if Pfizer or the administerer   of the vaccine does a secure transaction to a  blockchain backend and the QR code is generated   from the blockchain backend? Oh, well, that  pretty much says, "He couldn't have faked it."   Where there's need for proof, blockchain at  least tells you an audit trail can be believed.  On that topic, which I think is super important  now that we're hopefully going to have cheaper,   faster testing at home, school, or work. You want  to prove your negative to get to that concert,   or that you've been vaccinated and  you've got antibodies, let's say.  There's a platform that came out of part of our  enterprise called CommonPass from CommonHealth and   it's literally a digital yellow card. They're  tying it into airlines and sporting arenas.   I think that the CLEAR folks  have something similar as well.  We're going to need those sorts of  technologies to connect the dots on   our vaccine status as well as to do the sort of  Stage 4 follow-ups. Are you having side effects?   How long did your protection last? This is  still a big, global experiment in the COVID era.  The good news – just to this topic, Michael –  is that the industry has agreed on one common   standard to represent proof of vaccination—the  health card standard that Josh Mandel created   as a FHIR implementation guide—which is just  one of the standards that are being used by   the CommonPass or the various Apple  kinds of healthcare type products.  We have another question from Twitter.  Personal health technologies is   one thing for mentally "healthy" people.  What about those suffering from dementia or   other mental illness? I will add that  one of the things you're describing   with healthcare at home with sensors at home is,  to some degree, you are offloading the burden   of collecting data and tracking data from the  clinician onto this distributed workforce, namely   patients. How do we manage that? I think that  leads us directly into some of the ethical issues.  My mom is almost 80. I said, "Hey, mom. Do  you know that the information blocking and   interoperability rule now allow you to use a  FHIR R4 API to download your healthcare data   and be the steward?" She said, "I have not a clue  what you just said and I'm more than happy to let   you do it, but I don't want to do it." I could hypothesize that we are going   to have a whole new kind of healthcare worker  that will be the health coach, the care manager,   this care traffic controller kind of person who  does assist those without, say, digital comfort,   getting these digital workflows implemented. The digital workflows are getting simpler. We   mentioned earlier, voice. You don't need to train  your 80-year-old mom to use Alexa. Just say, "Hey,   did I take my meds?" or "Help. I've fallen and  I can't get up," or to track voice or the work   out of MIT with wi-fi that can seamlessly pick up  behaviors and even sleep patterns and vital signs.  We're kind of moving to this ambient sensing  world without wearables. That leads to privacy   issues and who owns the data. When it picks  up mental health changes from your voice,   your behaviors, or your sleep, who gets notified? I love the idea of the health traffic controller.   Some of those are going to become more and more  automated and up-level to the sun or the clinician   only at the right sort of gating. This is an Arthur C. Clarke rule that   my mom, because I happen to have  created platforms in her home,   walks over to a device, just talks to it, and it  just works. I didn't actually even train her and   she's going and giving commands to these devices.  It's like, "My God! This is actually magic."  What are the primary ethical  issues when it comes to   the unique aspects of healthcare data such as  the type that you're collecting and aggregating?  There are so many ethical issues. I serve on a  number of national and international data ethics   advisory boards. What data can be  used from whom, for what purpose?   If value results from an algorithm or something  derived from that data, should the person who   contributed it get a micropayment? What consent  is needed if data that is de-identified and   aggregated is used for algorithm development?  These are all unanswered societal questions.  Well, I like to think of it from the perspective  that we all should be incentivized to become not   just blood donors, organ donors, but data donors  and get something back. My overused example is   Google Maps and Waze. We're sharing our private  data, our speed and location, and it builds the   traffic map. We don't get paid to report that  there's an accident or slowdown. It helps inform   and sometimes it's gamified with points on Waze. In general, we all benefit from donating,   still hopefully in safe, anonymized ways. In fact,  there's now a platform called Stuff That Works out   of Israel where, if you've got a condition  from psoriasis to migraines to cancer, you can   donate your data and find others like you.  Then it'll give you synthesis of information   back. Hopefully, it'll be like, if you're a  data donor, you'll get the benefits from that   at big levels or small. We align that piece. Also, maybe we need to reinvent or   reshape HIPAA laws, which were predigital,  so that they're not fear-mongering in terms   of enabling folks to share data when they  want to, in clinical settings or outside.  A couple of elements to that. Mayo is in  the process of rewriting its general consent   to give five kinds of choice. Here's an  interesting challenge, Daniel. You can't just give   infinite numbers of choices because then you're  just not going to be able to enforce it or respect   the patient's will, but you could probably give  about five and say, "Oh, you say you don't want   to contribute your data to research or product  development. Okay." It's very discrete, right?  We're finishing up that. We'll be holding a  conference in March, bringing together a number of   international experts to look  at the consent and get opinions.  Everything that I have done is done with  de-identified data that has been certified   by a third party expert as deidentified.  Meaning that it is pretty hard to reidentify.   The definition we use for deidentified is  the data is sufficiently ambiguous such   that it cannot be distinguished  among ten different patients.  We've done this restructured data but, just  last month, we released about seven million   unstructured patients' records, notes, reports,  and that kind of thing. Devilishly difficult to   deidentify text but we have done certification  with third-party experts that we've succeeded.  It's interesting, I think, when you start  to deidentify that and make it open.   You can run data challenges on those and  maybe identify biomarkers of disease or   pathways of care that were not visible. Our friend Atul Butte at UCSF has access   to all the prescribing data amongst all the UCs.  They prescribe very differently for, let's say,   diabetes, et cetera. If you can get insight into  that, you might find the ones that are really most   evidence-based or most health economic impactful.  I think the more we can federate and anonymize and   share that data, let people mine it and un-silo –  Mayo connects to Stanford to Harvard to Geisinger   to Kaiser to NHS – a lot of things can accelerate. Khwaja Shaik makes the important point on this   ethical issue. He says that ethnicity of data also  matters. Solutions built on U.S. geographic data,   for example, may not work for India. That's  another layer to this ethical question.  This whole question that we've been talking  about is equitable care, disparities of care.   One aspect of that is bias in algorithms,  and how do you even detect bias?  One of the projects that I've been working  on as part of the Mayo Clinic platform,   but also Mayo Clinic in general, is bringing  together a number of experts to be able to say,   "Can we develop the sensors that  understand when an algorithm   is biased? Or if it is biased, is it  useful in some subsets versus others?"   You'll see a whole lot of activity in papers  coming out trying to answer such questions.  Speaking of India, on not just the bias side  but on, let's say, the genomic side now that   it's getting cheaper to do full sequencing,  there are groups trying to make sure you get   folks from Asia and not just Europe. Then  inform the algorithms when we're trying   to do pharmacogenetics or polygenic risk scores  that it's based on the population you come from.  We have another question from Twitter. You  can see I really like taking the question   from Twitter and LinkedIn. This is from  Irma Raste. Irma says, "What is the role   of clinical patient registries in all this?" Well, so why are registries important?   We've talked about a lot of elements of a  platform. A registry often takes much deeper   data than would be stored in an electronic health  record or an administrative billing transaction.   It's used because it's disease-specific. I will tell you; I've worked on a lot of   cancer registries and so much of the  cancer data, which is staging data,   biomarker, genomics data, you're having to pull  today out of text and that's not always easy.  I guess the last example I'll  give you is in the time of COVID,   especially as we've tried to understand  efficacy of various treatments. Registries   have provided us with data that we would have  never gathered in a traditional way. Registries   are really an important adjunct data source. Now, even the idea of the patient as a scientist,   particularly with lung COVID, there are  some good examples of patients themselves,   who had all these strange neurologic and other  symptoms, building their own sort of registries   and crowdsourcing those that are going  to be super helpful for understanding the   long-term sequelae and how to treat them. Now, you've mentioned COVID and maybe that's   a topic that we should talk about before we  leave. Everybody reads the news. We know what's   going on. Personalize it for us.  What's actually going on right now   with regard to COVID? Is there a problem? I'll just say one short thing if someone   hasn't read The Atlantic article out by  Ed Yong today about the impact on COVID on   front-line clinicians who have survived a couple  of waves and are now completely stretched thin,   in the Midwest especially. We're speaking now  in November of 2020. You'd think some of these   things like even PPE that were an issue back  in March/April weren't still an issue today.   I think we're in a dark space. We hope the  vaccine is going to come, but we're in a pretty   challenging element right now and I think we still  need to band together and do smart science and   public health if we're going to pull out of this. Since March of 2020, I have co-led the National   COVID-19 Healthcare Coalition of 1,200 companies  for situational awareness, for understanding   PPE supply and demand, for looking at contact  tracing, testing efficacy, cures, and vaccines.   What can I say as of November 2020 is our  current issue? We are in a moment – Daniel   used the term dark – where we have unchecked,  exponential growth of COVID in this country.  Yesterday, we passed 160,000 unique cases.  It depends what model you believe: University   of Washington, IHME, MDR. There's a whole  variety. The models are currently suggesting,   as of November 2020, that we will have one  million dead by February. That is a wake-up call.  It is pretty extraordinary to watch the  numbers, those graphs on the news every day.   It wasn't too long ago, a week, where  the number of cases was 100,000.   Now we're up to 160,000, as you said. Regardless  of what the government may do at this point,   short of immediate and very dramatic  behavior change across the country,   is there anything that can stop the continued  exponential growth of this disease right now?  Wear a damn mask, socially distance, don't get  COVID fatigue in that sense. Stay vigilant for   your personal self, your friends, your  family, and your community. That can   certainly help. We are in this exponential phase.  A doubling—1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64—it moves quickly   and people tend to think linearly. I think  we all need to redouble our basic elements.  Hopefully, get our rapid COVID tests at scale  that we need, even if they're not perfect. A test   is going to be zero percent sensitivity  and specificity if it's not taken.   That's an element that needs to accelerate, and  then supporting our folks on the frontlines.   Hopefully, with the incoming Administration,  getting real science and policy put into place.  Wear a mask everywhere, every time, no exceptions.  No gatherings greater than ten people ever   for any purpose. Social distance. Don't  travel. This holiday season, don't travel.  These are just the very basics and I know so many  of these messages may have been politicized. All   you have to do is look at the data. It's the  only way we're going to start to bend the curve.  We've been given all of this advice since almost  the beginning of this year. It hasn't worked   so far, and so my question really is, is  exponential growth for the next couple of months   virtually inevitable to continue? I hope not. I think Daniel and I both recognize   it's not going to be one size fitting all.  There's going to be regional variation.  Yes, there are certainly cures.  Yes, there are vaccines coming.   The challenge is, we're in this for the long-haul. Even when the vaccines are fully deployed,   there are 7.7 billion people on this planet.  Depending on whether it's a single dose or   double dose vaccine, let's say on average we're  going to need 12 billion doses of vaccine. Just   go look at the supply chain to deliver 12 billion  doses of vaccine. It will take two to three years.  I really hope that we just don't lose this  war through attrition and refusal to change.   That as people recognize that the exponential  growth means the death of loved ones,   they will recognize that this is not a  political issue. It's a survival issue.  On top of the sort of pandemic, of course,  the info-demic has exacerbated this, whether   it's just lots of information and hard to grok,  all the way to, on purpose, mal-information. We   already had the issue with anti-vaxxers. We have  a huge issue that's already here with vaccine   resistance. Folks, even clinicians saying, "I'm  not going to take it for the first six months."  Going forward, we need to re-establish trust  across folks. We're not perfect. Anthony Fauci has   changed positions as data and information  has emerged. To get back to a setting where   the info-demic doesn't make  the pandemic twice as worse.  I would close it with a stronger suit. Maybe,  John, you can riff on this just briefly is   that the silver lining of COVID is that there's  an amazing amount of innovation, whether it's   3D printing ventilators or new vaccines, new  collaborations, new datasets, a lot of energy   from virtual care to testing platforms that will  hopefully transform healthcare in positive ways   and will, big picture, hopefully, save more  lives than COVID will take in the future.   There may be some silver linings out of this. What has happened in the time of COVID is   competitors have come together for collaborations  that I have never seen in my career. This means   that we're moving forward on gathering data,  distributing PPE, looking at novel testing,   looking at novel therapies,  disseminating evidence,   and working together as a unified coalition.  Sure, we're in a dark place, but the number of   parties working together to make it better is many  and it spans government, academia, and industry.  All right. On that inspiring note, thank you,  everybody, for watching. Thanks to our amazing   guests. Be sure to subscribe to our YouTube  channel. Hit the subscribe button at the top of   our website and we'll send you excellent emails. Thanks so much,   everybody. I hope you have a great day. Next week, we're speaking with Eric Yuan.   He's the CEO of Zoom. Check it out. Wear a mask, everybody. Bye-bye. 