 [President Donald Trump] Birth tourism, big business. Man: We don't like it. I don't think anyone in Canada particularly likes it. It is unfortunate, nurses are not able to speak out. Most of them, they get the Canadian passport and then they leave the country. [Erica] Is that a motivating factor for you? That you get paid more than the public system? It is like a dessert. [Speaking alternate language] You cut power. Stop-- -Just tell me how-- -I call the police now. [  ] [  ] I have lived in this particular neighbourhood for 30 years. When it started, I started to look for clues, and so I started to see Pamper boxes overflowing in the recycling boxes. [Erica] Kerry Starchuk lives in Richmond, BC, just outside Vancouver. She experienced firsthand a growing phenomenon when she dropped by a new neighbour's house with cookies. Said, "I hope you enjoy your new house." "Come over any time that you need help." And he took my cookies and then I looked at the back door and there was two carriers, baby carriers, and pregnant women. I started to see what was happening. [Erica] Across Canada in 2018, nearly 5,000 babies were born to non-residents. That's up about 15% from the year before, and the numbers keep climbing. Many of those babies are to women who spend upwards of $30,000 to fly in from other countries, give birth, and fly home. Their babies, born on Canadian soil, are automatically Canadian citizens-- legal, but as controversial as its name, birth tourism. So these are birth tourism houses just in your community? Yes, in Richmond. That's a long list. That is. [Erica] Birth houses, where women stay when they arrive. But when a Mandarin speaking colleague and I knock on a few doors of those supposed houses listed online... There's someone inside. You can hear them. [Erica] ..people who do answer say they have no idea why their homes are on the websites. -You make her give-- -We don't do that business. [Erica] There's no national tracking of where women are coming from. But mostly, they deliver at a few hospitals in Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia. Richmond Hospital is considered "ground zero". Last year, nearly one- quarter of all births here, more than 450 babies, were born to non-residents. We learn the vast majority of those new moms come from China. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] Online, we find websites, promoting birth tourism in Canada, touting high-tech medical facilities, top-rated doctors. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] But we discover there's a multi-million dollar shadow industry in pockets of Canada that healthcare insiders say is stressing the system. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] To learn more about what's going on, a producer poses as a pregnant mom, dials up birth tourism companies. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] Easier to access a Canadian university, and no international tuition fees. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] At around six months pregnant, we're told, women should leave China for Canada. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] But it's pricey. Paying the company, flights, accommodation, medical fees, it can range from $20,000 to $70,000. [Speaking alternate language] [Erica] Why have you become one of the go-to doctors for this? Language. I'm a native Mandarin speaker. [Erica] Why do you do it? Because, when the patients are here, they need medical services. You feel obliged. [Erica] When we take a closer look at the websites for birth tourism, we learn they mention several Canadian doctors, including Dr. Xin-Yong Wang. Sometimes they say they want to get an epidural, because they don't have access to epidural in China, and some of them say they want a third baby and that then it was not allowed in China. [Erica] Not many of them say, "We're just here for "the passport"? That's right. I rarely hear that, if at all, yeah. But, obviously, you wonder if that would be a very common reason. [Erica] We wonder, with so many of these deliveries at Richmond Hospital, what's the impact? But the hospital sends staff a warning, directing employees not to speak to the media. We've talked to nurses but they are afraid to speak on camera. Why do you think that is? It is unfortunate nurses are not able to speak up. [Erica] Despite the risk of discipline, four current and two retired nurses speak to us about their concern. We agree not to identify them. ..says one nurse. Another tells us... I just want to read you something that one of your members has said to us. "Our normal scheduled or add-on C-sections "lie there all day and then we send them home "and we say come back to them tomorrow. "A private pay never goes home. "She gets her c-section that day. "She will be fit in somewhere because nobody wants to lose "that money." That's what she told us. What do you think when you hear that? I think that's really sad. I think it's heart-wrenching for the nurse who has been working with that mom all day. [Erica] Another nurse tells us... I think that, you know, adding additional patients into a healthcare system that isn't staffed appropriately, that isn't funded appropriately, is causing strain. There is great risk when they're stretching resources. We know if there's not enough nurses, nurses to patients, that things can get overlooked. What I hear from nurses is that they've raised these issues and they really just feel that nobody is listening. [Erica] Nurses say that they have seen the care of private pay patients prioritized at Richmond Hospital. For my own patients, I can definitely say, it's, ah, definitely no. [Erica] They're not prioritized? They're not. If anything, I think that we try our best to make sure the community, the Richmond residents receive adequate care first. [Erica] Non-residents coming to Richmond Hospital to give birth pay a deposit, $10,000 for a vaginal delivery, $16,000 if it's a caesarean. On top of that, they pay doctors' fees. We learned those fees can be three or four times higher than what doctors charge the public healthcare system. But there's really no limit. May I ask, what is the fee you charge? I think I'll keep that-- yeah. [Erica] Is that a motivating factor for you, that you get paid more than the public system? It's like a dessert-- occasional patients like this is fine, and it's pretty financially rewarding, but then, because they are a small percentage of our overall income. [Erica] Figures we obtain from the health authority show, since 2014, two doctors at Richmond Hospital have delivered hundreds of babies to non-residents, potentially earning hundreds of thousands of dollars each year on top of what they bill the public system. But for some doctors, the situation is plagued with issues. What is the experience like-- to collect money directly from patients? We hate doing that. We get put in this corner that you have to go and talk to them. There's a bill that's expected to be paid. [Erica] Dr. Mudaffer al-Mudaffer works at Royal Columbian Hospital, also on the outskirts of Vancouver. He gets called in to treat newborns of non-residents when they need unexpected intensive care. Sometimes they only pay partial or none at all. Most of them, they get the Canadian passport, and then they leave the country. [Erica] It's up to individual doctors to make sure they get paid by birth tourists, but al-Mudaffer estimates, for him, that only happens about 30% of the time. Says other doctors are affected, too. What people are not prepared for is early labour. Any lady can go 12 weeks early, 16 weeks early. The baby is going to require intensive care admission, and that's when you see, wow, this is-- like, do they know what's ahead of them? Like, health authorities charge non-residents of Canada $10,000 per night. Have you had to go to the parents of a sick baby, where the bill is mounting day after day, and say to them, "You're going to face a massive bill"? Initially they say, "Oh, it's a Canadian baby, doctor." "The baby is Canadian, so it should be for free." They can't just come, spend time in intensive care, take the passport and then off you go, without paying. So that's where it becomes unfair. You know, the country that provided you with care, with everything, at least you should do your part. [Erica] Richmond Hospital is owed over $2 million due to unpaid bills since 2017. Other hospitals are out money, too. But there is no clear picture of just how much across the country. It affects the health system. We need equipment. We need to hire staff. So, we need the budget. But the budget is going somewhere else as well. So, it really affects the integrity of the health system and the fairness of the distribution of the resources. Well, we don't like it. I don't think anyone in Canada particularly likes it. I think people in Canada don't like the idea that there seems to be private systems put in place that feels like are taking advantage of us in some ways. We've heard about unpaid bills in the tens of thousands, in the hundreds of thousands. What are you doing to ensure those bills get paid? If any bill is unpaid, I'm concerned about that, because that's money that we could and should be spending on something else or saving the healthcare system. So of course we are concerned about it. Unfortunately, I'm not in a position to address people coming to this country. The only thing we can do is do what healthcare workers are obliged to do. Which is to provide care when people come to the hospital and need care. [Erica] He doesn't like it, but tells us BC is doing a better job of getting money back. The Fifth Estate wanted to know specifics. That information is never shared. Some Canadian hospitals have taken steps to limit non-resident births, saying their priority is to serve people living in their communities. The health authority that runs Richmond Hospital, Vancouver Coastal Health, declines repeated requests for interviews. It e-mails a statement instead, saying, the health authority "will never deny care based on ability to "pay or where a patient is from." Adding, "we do expect to be compensated". [Dog barking] [Erica] When we come back, things heat up, as we keep digging. [Speaking alternate language] This is not a birth house. It's wrong. [Erica] And we meet up with a birth tourist. What made you want to come here to have your baby? [  ] [  ] [Erica] We're investigating the shadow industry behind birth tourism, women who pay agencies to help them give birth in Canada. Their babies get a Canadian passport and all the advantages of citizenship. Your baby will be Canadian. How do you feel about that? [Speaking alternative language] [Erica] While hitting the pavement, we run into Cathy Xi, newly arrived to give birth to her third child. [Speaking alternative language] [interpreter] Mmm, okay. What do you say to some people who think it's not fair that women can come and have a baby and then all of a sudden the baby's Canadian? Some people say it's skipping the line. [Speaking alternative language] [Erica] Cathy comes from Shandong, on China's east coast. Tells us giving birth here will cost at least $55,000 Canadian. [Speaking alternative language] [President Donald Trump] Birth tourism, big business. Where pregnant mothers travel to America to make their children instant American citizens. [Erica] President Trump can't ban birthright citizenship, it's part of the American Constitution. But authorities in the US are starting to crack down on the industry around it. Federal agents raided 20 birth hotels in southern California. 19 people were charged last year. Court documents allege a multi-million dollar underground industry where women are coached to lie at the border, carry large sums of cash... [Speaking alternative language] [Erica] On the phone with our undercover producer, companies confirm Canada is now a more appealing destination. [Speaking alternative language] [Erica] Unlike in the States, Canadian authorities don't appear to be investigating a legal but secretive industry. We discover an account on one of China's most popular social media platforms, using Dr Wang's name to attract expectant mothers. This is really scary. It's so easy for people to use that information for their own personal gain. [Erica] After we tell Wang, he sends a legal letter asking the company to pull down the account. What does this fake account make you think about the birth tourism industry? I think there are people who are trying to make a financial gain from the situation. [Erica] We learn the company that appears to be impersonating Wang has an office in Richmond. This is the place. The company's website says it provides services to birth tourists. But the people inside claim they know nothing about that. They ask us to leave. [Indistinct conversation] Why won't you tell us what you're doing with the company? [Erica] When we check out one of the homes the company listed online as a birth house... [Speaking alternative language] This is not a birth house. It's wrong. [Erica] We meet a man who lives there. He's listed as a director of the company that kicked us out, but denies he has any connection to birth tourism. Wrong, wrong, wrong advice... You cut power. -Stop. -Just tell me-- I call police now. I think it's something that the provincial government or the federal government can do. There must be something they can do at least to regulate things better. You know people will hear you say that and think, "Hmm, really, does he not want to be doing this?" Because you're making a lot of money. Um...like I said, for our overall income, it's not a life-changing percentage. I agree with people's frustration. One of the frustrations I've had is that there have been federal politicians-- of both political parties in Canada, Conservative and Liberals on the government side, who raised and have tried to make this a big issue. While they complain about it and they point at the health care system sometimes, haven't taken any action. Mr. Speaker, I would like to present a petition on behalf of nearly 9,000 Canadians, regarding... [Erica] In 2016, the Conservatives wanted to make changes to citizenship laws... This petition asks the government to introduce legislation that requires at least one parent to have Canadian citizenship or resident status before granting their child citizenship. [Erica] The Liberals petitioned two years later... Birth tourism exploits our generous public health care and social security systems and violates Canadians' sense of fairness. [Erica] More recently, the Conservatives called for an end to automatic citizenship for people born here, then dropped it during the lead up to the 2019 election. Canada is one of only about 30 countries in the world that grants birthright citizenship. The Fifth Estate requested an interview with the Federal Minister of Immigration appointed in November. Our request was declined. In a statement, the Ministry said while... So it wants more research. Why are we looking at numbers, what are they going to look for? Are they gonna wait till it's 8000? 80,000? What's the magic number? It's an issue. I did write letters to different politicians over the past let's say...seven years. What you get is electronic auto-reply, "We'll write back to you," and then nobody writes back. [Erica] Cathy's baby, was due last month. She told us she is headed back to China shortly. [  ] [  ] 