BUSINESS OverviewAs the world's leading independent, end-to-end IT services company, DXC leads digital transformations for clients by modernizing and integrating their mainstream IT, and by deploying digital solutions at scale to produce better business outcomes. The company’s technology independence, global talent, and extensive partner network enable 6,000 private and public-sector clients in 70 countries to thrive on change. Businesses in today's complex and demanding business environment are increasingly seeking to integrate digital technology into every aspect of their business resulting in fundamental changes to how they operate and deliver value to their customers. DXC designs and deploys new digital solutions – at scale – that integrate with our clients' mainstream IT infrastructure. We work with our clients to solve challenges in ways that maximize opportunity and minimize business risk. Our world-class talent becomes part of our clients’ teams, innovating with them, putting the right technology to work for their organizations and leading them through accelerating change to deliver better business outcomes. Our business strategy is supported by a framework that focuses on the following three pillars:•Help clients advance their digital transformations by modernizing and simplifying their mainstream IT; which can help fund their digital initiatives;•Invest in our people to nurture digital skills and leadership development; and•Deliver value by achieving results for our clients and stakeholders.History and DevelopmentDXC, a Nevada corporation, was formed on April 1, 2017, by the merger of CSC and HPES (the "HPES Merger"). See Note 2 - "Acquisitions" for more information.USPS Separation and MergersOn May 31, 2018, DXC completed the separation of USPS (the "Separation"), and combination with Vencore Holding Corp. ("Vencore") and KeyPoint Government Solutions ("Keypoint") (the "Mergers") to form Perspecta Inc. ("Perspecta"), an independent public company (collectively, the "USPS Separation and Mergers"). Under the terms of the separation agreements, on May 31, 2018, stockholders who held DXC common stock at the close of business on May 25, 2018 (the “Record Date”), received a distribution of one share of Perspecta common stock for every two shares of DXC common stock held as of the Record Date (the "Distribution"). See Note 3 - "Divestitures" for more information.2Acquisitions and DivestituresIn addition to the USPS Separation, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019"), we completed the acquisition of Molina Medicaid Solutions ("MMS"), a Medicaid Management Information Systems business, from Molina Healthcare, Inc. The combination of MMS with DXC expanded our ability to provide services to state agencies in the administration of Medicaid programs, including business processing, information technology development and administrative services. We also completed other acquisitions during fiscal 2019 to complement our Microsoft Dynamics and ServiceNow offerings and to provide opportunities for future growth. See Note 2 - "Acquisitions" for more information.On January 7, 2019, DXC and Luxoft Holding, Inc ("Luxoft") announced a definitive agreement for DXC to acquire Luxoft, a global-scale digital innovator providing digital strategy consulting and engineering services for companies across North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region (the "Luxoft Acquisition"). Pursuant to the agreement between DXC and Luxoft, all of the issued and outstanding Luxoft Class A and Class B ordinary shares will receive $59.00 per share in cash, representing a total equity value of approximately $2 billion. The transaction is anticipated to close by June 2019, subject to regulatory and other approvals. Such approvals include the termination or expiration of the relevant waiting period under, and the approvals required to be obtained in connection with or in compliance with, (i) the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, which was satisfied on January 31, 2019; (ii) the European Union Merger Regulation, which was satisfied on March 25, 2019; and (iii) Russia merger control regulations, which was satisfied on June 11, 2019. Segments and ServicesAs a result of the Separation, USPS is no longer included as a reportable segment. Our reportable segments are Global Business Services ("GBS") and Global Infrastructure Services ("GIS").Global Business ServicesGBS provides innovative technology solutions that help our clients address key business challenges and accelerate digital transformations tailored to each client’s industry and specific objectives. GBS offerings include:•Enterprise, Cloud Applications and Consulting. We provide industry, business process systems integration and technical delivery experience to maximize value from enterprise application portfolios. We also help clients accelerate their digital transformations and business results with industry, business, technology and complex integration services.•Application Services. Our comprehensive services help clients modernize, develop, test and manage their applications.•Analytics. Our portfolio of analytics services and robust partner ecosystem helps clients gain rapid insights and accelerate their digital transformation journeys.•Business Process Services. We provide seamless digital integration and optimization of front and back office processes, including our Agile Process Automation approach.•Industry Software and Solutions. Our industry-specific solutions enable businesses to quickly integrate technology, transform their operations and develop new ways of doing business. Our vertical-specific IP includes insurance, healthcare and life sciences, travel and transportation, and banking and capital markets solutions.Global Infrastructure ServicesGIS provides a portfolio of offerings that deliver predictable outcomes and measurable results, while reducing business risk and operational costs for clients. GIS offerings include:•Cloud and Platform Services. We help clients maximize their private cloud, public cloud and legacy infrastructures, as well as securely manage their hybrid environments.•Workplace and Mobility. Our workplace, mobility and Internet of Things ("IoT") services provide a consumer-like experience with enterprise security and instant connectivity for our clients.•Security. Our security solutions help predict attacks, proactively respond to threats, ensure compliance and protect data, applications, infrastructure and endpoints.See Note 18 - "Segment and Geographic Information" for additional information related to our reportable segments, including the disclosure of segment revenues, segment profit and financial information by geographic area.3Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services directly to clients through our direct sales force, operating out of sales offices around the world. Our clients include commercial businesses of many sizes and in many industries and public sector enterprises. No individual customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated revenues for fiscal 2019, 2018 or 2017. SeasonalityGeneral economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions occasionally experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We also experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our services. For example, contract awards are often tied to the timing of our clients' fiscal year-ends, and we also experience seasonality related to our own fiscal year-end selling activities. Competition The IT and professional services markets in which we compete are highly competitive and are not dominated by a single company or a small number of companies. A substantial number of companies offer services that overlap and are competitive with those we offer. In addition, the increased importance of offshore labor centers has brought several foreign-based firms into competition with us.Our competitors include:•large multinational enterprises that offer some or all of the services and solutions that we do;•smaller companies that offer focused services and solutions similar to those that we offer;•offshore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that sell directly to end-users; •solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific industry segment or service area; and•in-house functions of corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside IT services provider.The principal methods of competition in the markets for our solutions and services include:•vision and strategic advisory ability;•digital services capabilities;•performance and reliability;•responsiveness to client needs;•competitive pricing of services;•technical and industry expertise;•reputation and experience; •quality of solutions and services; and•financial stability and strong corporate governance.Our ability to obtain new business and retain existing business is dependent upon the following:•technology, industry and systems know-how with an independent perspective on the best client solutions across software, hardware, and service providers;•ability to offer improved strategic frameworks and technical solutions;•investments in our digital services and solutions;•focus on responsiveness to customer needs, quality of services and competitive prices;•successful management of our relationships with leading strategic and solution partners in hardware, networking, cloud, applications and software;•project management experience and capabilities; •end-to-end spectrum of IT and professional services we provide; and•financial stability and strong corporate governance.4Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as contractual protections, to protect our business interests. While our technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, we do selectively seek patent protection for certain inventions likely to be incorporated into products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across the patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our solutions and services and enhancing our freedom of action to sell solutions and services in markets in which we choose to participate. No single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any business segment.Additionally, we own or have rights to various trademarks, logos, service marks, and trade names that are used in the operation of our business. We also own or have the rights to copyrights that protect the content of our products and other proprietary materials. In addition to developing our intellectual property portfolio, we license intellectual property rights from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and plan to continue to grant to others licenses under our intellectual property rights when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties.Environmental RegulationOur operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. Environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position, and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. However, we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, or if new environmental legislation is passed which impacts our business.EmployeesAs of March 31, 2019, we employed approximately 130,000 employees and had offices and operations in 70 countries. Available InformationWe use our corporate website, www.dxc.technology, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including detailed company information, financial news, SEC filings, Annual Reports, historical stock information and links to a recent earnings call webcast. DXC’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. They are also available through the SEC at www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html. Our corporate governance guidelines, Board of Directors' committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee) and code of ethics entitled "Code of Business Conduct" are also available on our website. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report.  5Information About Our Executive OfficersName Age Year First Elected as Officer Term as an Officer Position Held With the Registrant as of the filing date Family RelationshipJ. Michael Lawrie 65 2017 Indefinite Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer NonePaul N. Saleh 62 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer NoneWilliam L. Deckelman, Jr. 61 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary NoneJoanne Mason 51 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer NoneEdward Ho 56 2018 Indefinite Executive Vice President and General Manager, Offerings NoneJames R. Smith 51 2017 Indefinite Executive Vice President, Digital Transformation and Customer Advocacy NoneNeil A. Manna 56 2017 Indefinite Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller andPrincipal Accounting Officer NoneBusiness Experience of Executive OfficersJ. Michael Lawrie has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of DXC and as a member of the Board of Directors of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Lawrie previously served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of CSC. Mr. Lawrie joined CSC as President and Chief Executive Officer on March 19, 2012, and as a member of its Board of Directors in February 2012. On December 15, 2015, Mr. Lawrie was appointed chairman of the CSC Board of Directors. Prior to joining CSC, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of U.K.-based Misys plc, a leading global IT solutions provider to the financial services industry, from November 2006 to March 2012. Mr. Lawrie also served as the Executive Chairman of Allscripts-Misys Healthcare Solutions, Inc., from October 2008 to August 2010. From 2005 to 2006, Mr. Lawrie was a general partner with ValueAct Capital, a San Francisco-based private investment firm. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of Siebel Systems, Inc., an international software and solutions company, from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Lawrie also spent 27 years with IBM where he rose to Senior Vice President and Group Executive, responsible for sales and distribution of all IBM products and services worldwide. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Lawrie was General Manager for IBM’s business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, which included operations in 124 countries and 90,000 employees. Prior to that, Mr. Lawrie served as General Manager of Industries for IBM’s business operations in Asia Pacific, based in Tokyo. Mr. Lawrie is a Trustee of Drexel University, Philadelphia and chairman of the board of directors of Perspecta. We believe Mr. Lawrie’s knowledge and extensive experience in the IT solutions industry and many years of experience as the Chief Executive Officer of DXC and CSC make him well-qualified to serve as a member of our board of directors.Paul N. Saleh has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Saleh previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CSC. Mr. Saleh joined CSC as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on May 23, 2012. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Saleh served as the Chief Financial Officer of Gannett Co. from 2010 to 2012. Prior to his tenure at Gannett Co., from 2008 to 2010, Mr. Saleh was a Managing Partner at Menza Partners, an operational and financial advisory group focusing on media, telecommunications and technology industries. Prior to that, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Sprint Nextel Communications from 2001 to 2007 and as Interim Chief Executive Officer of Sprint Nextel until 2008. He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Walt Disney International where he also held various other senior positions from 1997 to 2001. Mr. Saleh serves as a Director of Perspecta.William L. Deckelman, Jr. has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Deckelman previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of CSC. Mr. Deckelman joined CSC in January 2008 and served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2008 to 2012, and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel from 2012 to August 2014. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Deckelman served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Affiliated Computer Services Inc. from 2000 to 2008, and served as a director from 2000 to 2003, holding various executive positions there since 1989.6Joanne Mason has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Ms. Mason served as Chief Human Resource Officer and Vice President of CSC since March 2015. Ms. Mason joined CSC in March 2012 as Chief of Staff and Head of Change Management and Execution Office. Prior to joining CSC, from October 2006 to March 2012, Ms. Mason served as Chief of Staff and Operation Director at Misys plc. Ms. Mason previously served in various management roles at Zouk Capital from 2004 to 2006, Lendlease Group from 2002 to 2004 and Energis Communications Ltd. from 1999 to 2002.Edward Ho joined DXC on January 2018 and serves as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Offerings. Mr. Ho previously served as the President of Global Payment Solutions of D+H Corporation, a publicly traded, leading, global financial technology company, from April 2015 to November 2017, where he was responsible for leadership of its digital, global transaction banking business. From January 2013 to April 2015, Mr. Ho served as the President and Chief Operating Officer of Fundtech Corporation, a private equity owned, leading provider of digital payments banking software and services, where he was responsible of sales, marketing, product management, development, professional services, customer support and certain general and administrative functions. Prior to his role at Fundtech, he served for 9 years as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the capital markets division at Misys plc, a provider of banking, treasury, trading and risk management software solutions. Previously, he had been Chief Executive Officer and President of IQ Financial Systems, a developer and marketer of commercial lending and risk management software systems. Mr. Ho also spent 15 years as a banker with Bank of America, Bankers Trust and Deutsche Bank. James R. Smith serves as Executive Vice President, Digital Transformation and Customer Advocacy of DXC. Mr. Smith previously served as CSC's Executive Vice President and General Manager for GBS since he joined in August 2013. Prior to joining CSC, Mr. Smith served as Chief Executive Officer of Motricity, a provider of cloud-based mobile enterprise and analytics solutions from 2009 to 2012. Under his direction, Motricity had a successful initial public offering on NASDAQ after completing a business model transformation and global expansion. Mr. Smith held various executive leadership positions at Avaya from 2001 to 2008 where he helped drive a 10-fold increase in the company’s market capitalization and reinvented a global software platform. Prior to that, he was an Associate Partner at Accenture.Neil A. Manna has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of DXC since the completion of the HPES Merger. Mr. Manna previously served as Principal Accounting Officer, Vice President and Controller of CSC. Mr. Manna joined CSC on June 7, 2016. Prior to joining CSC, he served as the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of CA, Inc. from December 2008 to June 3, 2016. He served as Principal Accounting Officer and Vice President of Worldwide Accounting for RealNetworks, Inc. from July 2007 to November 2008. He served as the Chief Financial Officer of TimePlus Systems, LLC (formerly TimePlus, Inc.) from November 2005 to April 2007. From February 2000 to October 2005, he served as a Director of Finance for the Payroll Division of Intuit and Controller of Employee Matters, Inc. From July 1990 to February 2000 he served as the Principal Accounting Officer, Vice President of Finance, Controller and Treasurer of CHI Energy, Inc. He is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting and a Master’s degree in Business Administration.7