 www.log-chain.eu Meet Peter, a logistic manager. A customer just called him to check the arrival time of his delivery truck. But Peter doesn't know the exact answer. He knows the truck left in the morning and when it should arrive but doesn't have a real-time information from the road. Doess did sound familiar? Later this day the same customer calls Peter to tell him that his package arrived damaged. Peter is caught off guard. He should have known about it. He should have known what happened. However, the driver didn't inform him and he's stuck with an angry customer Peter wishes he would have a real-time control over all shipments and automated communication with all the stockholders involved. That would make his life so much easier and fortunately for him, he just discovered LogChain, an end-to-end electronically monitored package delivery system. Let's see how LogChain solves your logistic challenges! Route plans, vehicles and packages are important and tracked by the platform. Barcodes are scanned at every point of the route with Frontman mobile devices Transparent tracking allows you and all involved to see the delivery progress of a specific shipment. All packages are scanned when delivered and electronic proof of delivery with time stamp is issued immediately. Claims, complaints and damage reports are monitored in real-time, which ensures you won't be caught unaware. The e-documents are generated and exchanged among stakeholders. Everything is electronically achieved in the platform. LogChain was implemented and tested by BTC - the biggest logistics center in Slovenia. Information about a certain shipment was automatically available to all stakeholders. Consequently, there are fewer calls, as clients simply check their shipments status online. There were also much less time-consuming paperwork and the manager didn't have to wait for the driver to return in order to receive proof of delivery. So why should you consider LogChain? It runs in a cloud and it's safe and reliable service with no CAPEX costs, it is an open platform that supports all most important standards and it integrates where the majority of largest ERP systems, You can expect smooth implementation By the most experienced team in the region that will also show you how it works. LogChain will be ready to work and solve your problems with no hassle from your side. If you want less worries and more control LogChain is the way to go! www.log-chain.eu 