 - [Instructor] Welcome to the system design and management webinar series. The system design and management program is a mid-career master's degree program that is jointly offered by MIT School of Engineering and the MIT Sloan School of Management. The system design and management program provides a system-thinking perspective that integrates management, technology and social sciences to address rapidly accelerating complexity and change in today's global markets. Graduates earn a Master of Science degree in Engineering and Management. The SDM program also offers a one-year certificate in systems and product development. We're pleased today to have Jayraj Nair, present on making a successful digital transformation with IoT. Jayraj Nair is the Global Head of IoT at Wipro, where he sets the company's strategic and technological direction. A computer engineer with more than 20 years of experience in information technology, he previously held leadership roles at Infosys, EMC and Intel. He holds a master's degree in Engineering and Management earned through the MIT system design and management program. He also earned an MBA from Iowa State University. And a bachelor's degree in engineering from Amravati University in India. Jayraj will present for approximately 45 minutes and then we'll open up the webinar for questions. Please use the chat feature on the webinar to ask questions and we'll respond to as many as possible. Please join me in welcoming Jayraj Nair for his talk today. - Thank you very much. It's an incredible honor to be back here on campus. I was reminiscing while walking to the campus this morning. What a great place it is. And in terms of learning and continuous learning. Life is all about training and retraining oneself. So SDM gives a fantastic opportunity, has given me an excellent opportunity a long time ago, to go through this experience. So I really appreciate this opportunity to share. I lead the IoT business for Wipro and it's a significant growing business. IoT is the buzzword or has been the buzzword for the last few years. If you really look at what it is, it's just an amalgamation and collection of technologies that enable business transformation. And the way we approach it, it's not just an engineering feat, I'd like to kind of walk you through some of the very basic constructs and different ways of looking at it. It's not a very prescriptive approach. But I'm hoping that in the last 15 to 30 minutes, we can have an interactive engagement where I can answer some of these questions. So Wipro, is about an $8 billion company with multiple business units and service lines. I just wanted to give you a little bit of context, we serve thousands of customers globally. And we have a global footprint, a significant one which includes, it's one of the largest Indian SIs, but with significant local presence, more than half of our teams here in the U.S., are based in the U.S. So, is the case in Europe. If you look at the different verticals and business units that we have, we have the banking and financial services sector. Lot of digital disruption is happening in that space. Manufacturing and technology of course is prime if you must have heard of the different smart manufacturing technologies and approaches people are putting together, the industrial IoT platforms that people are putting together. Most of them are coming from product manufacturing companies and product to services transformation is huge in the space. Consumer of course, we are full of variables these days, so anything is smart and connected. Lots of very exciting changes happening to the way we live and we work. Healthcare, life sciences is an amazing space. I think the number of advances in terms of how do you get good connected health care, how do you get data from remote settings and data from clinical settings together. And kind of give us singular insular kind of a dashboard view, very important. Energy, natural resources is an area where you know, it's highly automated, very significant play in terms of asset management. If you look at the mining sector, you look at the big assets that they have in operations, to be able to remotely monitor them, to manage them. It is all enabled through IoT technologies in terms of being smart, being able to sense and detect and stay connected. Communications is another area where there's a lot of the people who provide the pipe, look at the amount of bandwidth we have at our, we have to use today. It's significantly more than what it used to be and the amount of and the volume and velocity of data that flows through these pipes is significant. So net new services, net new experiences can be crafted through these telecom technologies. From a service line standpoint, just a quick summary, we do global infrastructure services, we do application development, we do product engineering from concept to kind of implementation of large scale, product engineering projects. And analytics and insights has become the core of how you generate value these days, implying that the high volume, high velocity data I alluded to earlier, contextualizing all this data, putting that in a big data lake, conducting a lot of analytics on it and trying to get those nuggets of insights is where the value actually gets realized. Improving customer experiences, improving product efficiencies, utilization levels, all of that is a function of analytics. And analytics actually has progressed a lot with the net new buzzword around artificial intelligence lately, you must have seen the amount of cognitive technologies that are coming to bear on this high volume data. So that you can generate, apply machine learning techniques to generating more insights and better insights. Digital is the way things are. I mean, what is not digital today is obviously a question to ask if, literally in terms of how you engage, how you communicate, how you work, how do you connect and engage with machines? How do you run a smart manufacturing line? All of that is digital. So there's an immense amount of transformation that is happening in the digital space. That's just a brief overview of what we do as a services company. We have grown through organic and inorganic ways. Design has been a big focus for us, the largest design firm in Europe, Designit was acquired by us a while ago. Wipro Holmes is a AI platform that we have built. Ventures is how you engage the startup ecosystem and get more contribution from the broader set of innovators that are out there today. Topcoder is a crowdsourcing platform. In fact it is becoming more and norm to actually create algorithms, to create unique Ip, UIs and experiences through crowdsourcing, in very faster time to market way, using technologies like Topcoder. Appirio is one of our recent acquisitions. And of course, Digital is a capability we're growing across the board. So again, our intent always has been to enable client's digital transformation. And to do that, we have been growing organically and inorganically. Let me get into the construct of a typical IoT program, right? If you look at customer and say, well, you know, I've got all these smart, connected products, how do I get value out of the products if they are not smart, then how do you make them smart? If they're not connected, how do you make them connected? And then how do you realize genuine business value out of that connectivity and the exchange of information that is where clearly the definition of a good strategy makes sense. So as a part of an SDM program or in LFM program, typically you got to really think through what are the key dials of business outcomes that you can realize. What are the key factors you can control? What is it that you're optimizing for, right? So that creation of that strategy and spending adequate amount of time up front, doing some of the strategy work is very important. The design part is where as an engineer, typically I always tend to go run after getting things done. Right and so getting things done is usually is before the design element. Synthesis has been done a lot of thought has gone into it. I'll start building POCs and prototypes and emulate simulate data when possible. But what we have realized that in efforts and initiatives where we have spent sufficient time designing the customer journeys. Designing the customer experiences. Designing the machine to machine communication technologies. All of that time spent up front is well spent. It actually helps you do a better job at designing a solution that can sustain and actually make a material impact. Of course, the engineering fundamentals do exist. As good engineers, we have to think through the systems dynamics between these subsystems. I will get into a little bit of more detail in terms of how you could actually, how do you transform from the OT world to the IT world in IoT. In terms of how do you create a digital twin? How do you create an equivalent of the physical in the digital world? Those are basic engineering constructs and there are immense amount of tools and technologies that are available today at our disposal to enable this transformation. But ideally, when you have a good strategy, good design and good engineering capabilities, that is how you can structure a program and execute to it. If you do, you know, it's not like a very quantitative science saying 30% each. And you know, the rest is for deep thinkers. That is not the case, right? I mean, you do have to focus on strategy, design and engineering. And that's where that intersection is what enables better value transformation. So, three different ways of working. I'll, there are many, I mean, ideally, you can parse out the system and come up with many ways to optimize the way you work and enhance productivity. But I'll just focus on three big deals, right in the way we approach these mega projects, small projects, anything to do with the Internet of Things today or the industrial Internet of Things. If you look at, beyond silos, everybody says it, is very difficult to achieve. Not just about functional area, breaking barriers, like, you know, you have to make sure that if you're trying to do the operational equipment efficiencies, then it's not just the plant manager, but the financial controller is also looking at the efficiency. So finance, engineering, plan, production, customer experiences, customer support. You start looking at different functional ways these organizations are set up today. You definitely have to break beyond these silos to create a thread across individuals. From a system standpoint, if you really look at it, every system has got, you can tier it up and tier it up into the edge tier, the platform to the enterprise tier or anything in between. So, an end to end system stack or a view of the system can also include many, many, many ingredients. So you have to make sure you look at it beyond silos from a system standpoint as well. From a systems dynamics standpoint, I used to still remember the classes I took here on learning the system dynamics. And we used to make these huge maps of how things are interconnected. And the cause and effect across media subsystems and how they propagate right over to over function of time. The point I'm trying to make is that in these large end to end systems, having a good understanding of how do you break them, how do you represent them? And how do you interconnect various subsystems, very important. The second factor is around agility. Agility is the way. There is no waterfall traditional development cycles that span multiple years. People simply do not have the patience or today's technologies actually enable a very agile way of developing solutions, right? People also work differently today. So the approach of ideating, validating and actually implementing solutions in a very fast agile manner are very important. The third part is outside in, the outside in element has to do with the ecosystem. If there is one company that can stand up today and say that, hey, I can build a vertically integrated stack and implemented it for you. That's a myth. The notion is that across all these various tiers, I talked about the edge tier, the platform tier or even the enterprise tier of an IoT solution, an end to end stack, you will find multitudes of leaders providing technology ingredients. You have to stitch that together. So working in a good partner engineering scenario with multitudes of partners in the ecosystem is must do, so just to recap, your beyond silos, agile and outside in are the three major vectors. I'll kind of deep dive into each one of them a little bit. So as far as beyond silos is concerned, one aspect that I have to bring in is that the way people work today and how collaboration is done, how we used to like just the way we do SDM projects, I used to do SDM projects. It's all about bringing in a different sets of expertise and creating a diverse set of viewpoints, collectively engaged in solving one problem or one project or one mission, right? Getting all the people together and collaborating in a very dynamic way, in a very co-creation, co-innovation kind of a model that needs some sort of a framework. And what we have seen by doing hundreds and thousands of these projects over time, is that we can construct little sales were key stakeholder, sales are nothing Digital teams just a terminology. Creating the right teams, putting them together in a right construct, bringing and enabling the right environment to collaborate is a very important aspect. Never underestimate the power of good engineers to solve a systems problem. But at any cost, do not underestimate the power of a good team and the ability of the team to collaborate and work well together. It is a very crucial element of most successful programs. In terms of the services, products and experiences, we have been involved in the end to end stack from the innovation strategy all the way to product design and business process design. Let me get into specifics of how we should do things differently. Right, so one of the things, one of the approaches with our acquisition of design that we learned, is that design centric view or the human centric view of building products and services, is truly transformative. I think the today's generation expects a lot more both in terms of ease of use and the ways of working to be very different. So the traditional delivery focused or you know, systems first kind of view, has to shift a little bit more towards human centric people first and more. From an approach standpoint, clearly around the discovery-led approach. Discovery-led approach is something where you do not have a finite understanding of what your end goals are going to be. You discover it along the way, and then you cross the bridge when you get there. So I think you shape and size and you construct programs and projects, systems projects that are bounded in some sense of time, and some sense of expectations. But at the same time, the ability to be agile enough to be focused on learnings as you go. And then you build your plan, not like flying aircraft and building it at the same time. I think you have the core infrastructure and the elements in place. But the ability to do discovery-led is very important. So I mentioned about this digital lighthouse, I mentioned about how do you get people to come together? I think one of the constraints that we follow, which is a very good approach to take, for most companies are doing that as innovation hubs and digital pods. We have about 17 of them around the world, where we bring our customers and we get our engineers and we get the right experts together. So having a framework and an environment where ideation and co-creation can happen effectively, is very important. I think most of the project and frankly, SDM is not a newcomer to the space. I mean, I learnt in my very first week, in long time ago, I won't say how long ago, but long time ago, I learned we used to use the LEGO Mindstorms, I think the newer generations are all the NXTs. So in the first week, we had to create a robot that would push another robot off the table. And I still remember the name of it because we were from had a little California edge on the team we call it the fruitinator bigger because the thing was so light that we build and it was flying off by itself. We had to play some heavy apples and oranges on top to give it enough center of gravity or to lower it down. But the part was teams had to come together you know, we had to resist our own impulses a lot to shape and drive. So the the idea of co-creation is how we all learn ideas to be able to willing to listen to others ideas. To listen to a diverse set of ideas. It's often tough, I mean for engineers and type A personalities that are focused on getting things done. I personally fight through that urge all the time, because I always have a prescriptive answer up my sleeve and my team always tells me to kind of slow down and kind of think through, you know, a better way of doing it. So digital pods are an example of how you can actually co-create and create, provide the right environment for it. This slide talks about the ecosystem play, innovation from the outside. I'm passionate about working with the ecosystem. Fundamentally, I do believe that there is no vertically integrated stack today, right? If I were to just look at the one of the papers I did when I was here was around more about user-driven innovation. So how do you do use cases? How do you set up reference architecture? And then how do you put a stack together? In going through that exercise, what I found out or even now, when we do these hundreds of projects is, there is multitudes of platform providers, multitude of technology providers, sensor providers, connectivity providers, that you have to bring to bear. And you have to look out for the best interest. As an SI best interest of the customer. So a systems integrator, I think the advantage we get to have in this mix is that we are the voice of the customer. We tend to be the agnostic SI, that will actually bring the best of breed technologies together to stitch an effective solution for the customer. So I have a list of names in here of the other people that we work with. I'll just give you a plethora of the industrial IoT space. Let me explain this with an example. If you take the case of a system, which is intended to increase the operational efficiency of a product. Product or we call it an asset, it's an asset management solution, right? You have to build one, where now you want to understand how the product is being used. What are the different utilization levels of it? What are some of the various things that fail? How can you predict failure, so that you can do what you call prevent unplanned downtime. So you're improving the maintenance efficiency of that product or that asset. To create a system like that, for asset management, assume that asset is deployed. Let's take the coal mine for example. And it's an excavator or a digger which is a large industrial asset or in a fixed that would be a moving asset example. Another could be an example where you have a fixed asset within a manufacturing plant. All of these assets, they have to be smart, they have to be connected. So when it comes to the sensor technologies and the computing at the edge tier, in terms of sensors detect processing at the edge, all of that, so you look at the IAA Intel architecture or you look at architecture there is variety of technologies and computing and processing platforms and communication platforms that are available to you at the edge. So to make excavator that is out in the field smart and connected, and of course, you have the canvas within the vehicle, you have a lot of data being generated inside of the vehicle that you can get it out through an existing ODB port or through some other ways. You know, add a peripheral, you need to capture some of this information and then communicate it back to the cloud on the backend. Now, multitudes of players can play at the edge, you have to work with them. Now you look at the back end cloud platforms. So if you look at the standard traditional infrastructure as a service providers, you look at AWS, you look at Azure. You look at Google's Cloud Platform, every one of these platforms have transformed. I mean, you get immense amount of scale on all compute network and storage technologies. You ingest all this data and you also have now a plethora of the industrial platforms. We look at Siemens, for example. They've got the MindSphere platform. You have Schneider that has the EcoStruxure platform, Honeywell with the Sentience platform. IBM of course has its own Watson IoT platform. And you name any industrial player. Everybody's got software as a service layer that is riding a top some of these platform tiers. So when you think about the customer and you say, which platform do you pick, what are the services and apps that will ride on top of the platform. That involves a lot of assessment and what he called the best interest of the customers mind at terms of all the cloud scenarios where you have multiple clouds talking to each other. You have messaging and information flowing across them. Somebody's got to be the clearing house in that process. All of these, as I explained this at the edge tier and the platform tier, I've already named about a dozen or so players, who are relevant to the conversation. So to kind of pull myself back out of the weeds again, it is an ecosystem play. It will be an ecosystem play, more and more creative technologies are created and by multitudes of stakeholders and you have to bring them together. In terms of that is a one to one touch. There's also scenario where you could actually do multiple touches. Like here in the Boston area. We have a good partnership with the Industrial Internet Consortium based here in Needham World Economic Forum we work with them. They have a center for the fourth industrial revolution in San Francisco and of course industry photo has been checking out that me photo to architecture for the industrial smart manufacturing space in Germany quite a lot. In fact, we're looking forward to Hanover-messi coming up in April. Across these organizations and bodies also enable us to give, a many to many touch point. So fundamentally for any IoT solution or any kind of large systems project you should look at, how do you work in a many to many touch point and on a one on one basis with your partner ecosystem. The next slide here talks about the end to end solutions. So the end to end solution again, from the agile all the way to the enterprise, sensors connected with the platform, integration and analytics, you have ML and AI techniques and capabilities on top. I'll give you an example. Again, I'll use the same mining example of an excavator out or a loader out in the open pit coal mine for example. In that case, the sensors will detect let's take a simple image sensor that is looking at the sidewall of a truck or that is going by a loaded that's going by and predict failures based on you know, image analytics, good advanced image analytics, if the cuts on the sidewall are going to enable a catastrophic failure, so predicting failures. So improving maintenance efficiency is the key there. Now, you look at another part, which is actually more advanced, but looking at all the contract losses on the suppliers of the end the maintaining operators of the asset, so that a certain class can be triggered and the service call can be set up. So, service lifecycle management of the asset can be done as well. So, literally, an amalgamation of technologies will enable this end to end stack. I'll give you one example of how do you apply some SDM techniques. If I really look at how do you look, let's just take some the same system dynamics as an example, how do you take a large system and you break it down into its sub components? At least at the level where they make sense, right not at the very atomic level. If you take a large compressor, for example and you have different functional units within that and how do you map the subsystem within, they all have an ontology right, they all are hierarchically connected to each other in some manner. So to represent that physical asset, in terms of its digital equivalent, you have to actually map and create this ontology in a system. So here it may be a graph database of some sort or any DB or whatever you might use to create the digital equivalent in a system. So now the system knows that this is how now the technology of the IT stack or the digital stack knows how the system is actually constructed. So that when you get operational data coming in from sensors, which are in one of the entry level subsystem within. It can actually associate itself to a failure or success within a subsystem, right. So, creating this ontology, and creating this digital equivalent, involves a lot of understanding of how a system can be sized and broken into its subsequent components. The interfaces between these systems too, they're not the most you know, products are contained environments or contained systems. They don't tend to be very public and transparent APIs, is like black boxes, right subsystems. We actually work with customers who are suppliers to larger customers, and so we have several systems that are embedded within larger complex systems. And the interrelationship between the subsystems is not very public. They're very proprietary and it's exchange wire you know, very complex contractual obligations. But we get into the middle of it and you to understand how do you general size or generalize certain interconnects, certain APIs certain way these things work and plug together. So having a good acumen and knowledge about how you parse systems, How do you create and document and most importantly, these digital equivalents of any system has to be live. What that means is change management and think about a jet engine and attached to an Airbus frame a three ad that is flying for say Emirates in the Middle East. You look at the operator, how many people touch that jet engine for maintenance whenever, you know, maintenance bulletin comes out. So from the operator who touches and maintains that jet engine or one subsystem within the jet engine, updates a certain valve. And then making sure systematically, you know that the current digital version of that asset that you have on record that you're operating against, simulating against and emulating against is actually correct. So keeping a digital twin actually live, and keeping it current is a big challenge. So that's all of these things to do with good systems dynamics perspective, good way of design thinking, good way of enabling and mapping and continuously staying on top of it, is a very important aspect of doing IoT projects. I'll to quickly talk through the velocity of innovation part. I think, the agility, the ability to iterate fast and responsibly, of course, collaboratively. Because if you're a one man show you can run into what you want to do, but it never can have the scale and the capability fulfillment of what a team can achieve. So within our digital lighthouse, within digital cell, how do you get to be working in a very agile manner. So agility is leg of the stool that you cannot discard. If you were to look at three legs to where you talk about, beyond silos, agile and outside in, you got to do all three. And there is no conflict of interest in doing things in a very agile manner. It's a different way of thinking. It's just absolutely a new dynamic way of thinking wherever you're involved in projects. It's not like I don't know of any major private sector projects that are done in a cascade waterfall model that spans multiple years today. Versus it used to be the norm a few decades ago. So agile is the way to go. And a hummingbird is a good representation of how agile it is. Let me get into this customer-led and agile-led approach in terms of designing aspects of front. When we work with the customer, this whole construct that is explained here on the slide is very simple. You've got to have a good perspective on how the Azure's environment looks. You have to have a vision of where you want to transform to. Be it a product or a service, right? So as this and to be and then you need a simple roadmap as a function of time. On what the transformation roadmap is. So as this model to be model and the transformation roadmap. That is what your portfolio is. That's when we do major programs, multimillion dollar programs. That's how we construct them. It's not very complicated. I think the content is what is the most important aspect. The framework is just a very generic, a good way of approaching it. So that there is attention to details on planning they are good to be rather than just, you know, not spending enough cycles and planning for it. So the portfolio construction part, the better, more time more quality time we spend on it. The better is the execution aspects. Execution, of course, as I mentioned, is agile, right? Continuous solution and prototyping. Development and implementation in a very continuous dynamic way. So, it's agile, fast, iterative discovery-led. So you're basically finding your way and are not very prescriptive upfront. So this is typically how good systems engineering projects should be constructed in today's generation, right. I mean, I've done a few of them to realize many mistakes that I used to make, the idea is you fail fast and you succeed fast in the agile way. This digital cell something I talked about, the multidisciplinary team. Here I will raise one point, is that it goes back to again, there are times in one of the finance classes that I was doing. As part of Sloan. It wasn't ever a core strength of mine and having the right CPA who had actually done, you know, publication of multiple annual statements for companies in my team was very helpful, right. So getting the right experts as a as a diverse set of expertise into the mix in a digital cell is very, very important. I couldn't say more about it. I think the team is at the core of success or failure. And it is always the team. A team leader matters, right? A team leader matters, but the team matters more. In terms of the types of skills they bring in. The type of collaborative iterative model they put in place. That is what determines the success or failure of any large scale or small scale systems engineering projects and programs. Again, when sprints, learn fast, fail fast, succeed fast. Methodology is very simple, methodology is not what is important. The important part is, if there's one, I mean, one set of messages that you would want to take from the session is, any major systems engineering programs and projects ought to consider working beyond silos, working in an agile manner and working with the outside and all the ecosystem perspective. The one other experience that I'd also share is that it's not just about designing it and building it. When you also take ownership about running some of it, right. For example, in case of IoT programs, we also OT monitoring. We have digital twins of the physical assets that show up on our dashboards. And our teams monitor 10s of thousands of assets that are out there. I'll give you an example here in the case of JCB, which is again, construction equipment. we have over 50,000 of them that are being monitored. So, you can see which one is failing or which one is about to fail. What are some of the corrective actions you can take ahead of time. But the run it part, it is very important and even at a smaller scale, if we were to do a large scale systems engineering program, it would be very interesting to do the run it aspect. Because whenever you do the run it, it helps you build better projects, build better, do better design, do a better solution in creation and implementation. Because you learn, right and when you're operating, there's no better way to learn, other than running things. So when you run them, you do better job upstream in the process. Here's a list of collection of IoT projects and programs and products and solutions. Where we have done lots of projects. I can share specific technical details on any one of them depending on the audience's interest. If you look at the asset intensive businesses, be the factory setting or be the fix or moving asset even on the outside, even anything that is valuable and can be optimized for use, for maintenance, for any kind of operational efficiency use cases. All of that around asset management, supply chain management, logistics management, fleet management are very big and are a growing area of IoT business today. And it will continue to, because you know, people want to do better product to services transformation. And people do want to enhance and improve the customer service or customer experience. In terms of the other spaces around smart infrastructure. Literally every infrastructure today's smart if it's a Greenfield environment, I think if you look at Brownfield environments are going to retrofit and are getting smarter, here in campus, you should go check out Doppel Lab that is part of Media Lab, right. Some of the cool work that Dr.Joe Paradiso and team have done. In terms of both Marshall work is also pretty cool. But there's a lot of innovative ways to collect data, to visualize them, especially visualizing this high volume, high velocity information. And then converting that into key nuggets and insights that are meaningful and are useful is very important. I think there's a lot of work going on. The smart infrastructure space is very good. Across different types of campuses and buildings and airports and public smart city environments. Many many use cases are being deployed in IoT and I can actually address them. So as part of this Q&A session, which we have another for about 20 minutes for. We cover all of these specific areas and please feel free to ask me questions around any level of depth in any one of these solution areas. With that, I'll take a pause, thank for the time and the opportunity to be back on campus. I still wear the beaver ring very proudly. Having said that, I'll open it up for question and answers. - [Instructor] So, first off, as we get started with this, I'd love to have you use the chat feature if you have questions. The first one that I have is a question that says, "What is your approach when you need "to balance exploitation "of existing processes resources "and products and exploration "of new markets, services trends at Wipro?" - A good question, exploitation versus exploration, frankly, new products and services. So you know, I can put it in the context of hunting and farming, right. if you look at the traditional process, I'm sure when you look at twice, look at it three times and look at it from a different set of stakeholders with different mindset, different perspective, you'll get opportunities to make it better. You'll identify ways of doing things better. So exploratory work around existing processes is not something that is not net new. I mean, exploitation may be the term that you use there. You can find nuggets and opportunities to improve experiences or to do things better in traditional processes. And it's always the people, process and technology part, right? All these three have to go change, right. So the people part, of course, involves a lot of change in terms of training, retraining, ramping up. So if it's an existing process that involves certain way of doing things and involves a lot of stakeholders in this mix. It takes a lot more time. But that is the change that traditional organizations are going through today, right? Because you can't just create net new services 100% off the board without consideration for what exists today. Because if I look at products in the IoT space, products that are already out there, have a certain level of capability to sense and detect certain data, right and the net new Greenfield products are much more capable much more advanced today. So the processes that are involved in machine to machine communication the MB data that is being sent is substantially different. How do you create an abstraction layer? How do you homogenizes information? So here it is about that transformation play. It is about understanding the existing working to creating a transformational impact. Net new areas of course there is net new areas and Greenfield areas or ideas or trying to come up with very new sets of services. That is an accelerated path today versus a decade ago or even two, three years ago. Because some of the types of information that is being collected, enable completely transformative products, to services, offerings. I mean, net new services that are complete, were not comfortable, at all possible at some point. And now you're, you know, renting assets out versus selling them as an example. There are many, many places. I'll give you an example where airlines are trying to or jet engine manufacturers are trying to sell hours of flying time as a service. Simple things like fragrance as a service. And you walk into a hotel lobby, you smell fragrance, right? So the ability to sell it as a service rather than sell the dispenser and sell the different consumables associated with it. So the ability to sense and detect has actually enabled a lot of net new transformation. So it's a combination on and depending on the circumstances and the company you find yourselves in. There is no one or the other answer you, you farm and you make things better at the same time you look for very new innovative ways of doing business. - [Instructor] Alright, the next question that we have. So this comes from a student. "How do you maintain competitive IP "while managing interoperability "within the fragmented ecosystem of IoT?" - It's a great question, in fact, I'll give you a few examples. We have our own platforms that we stitch together with open source technologies. When we go to that exercise, we appreciate and love the IP that we have created, right? In terms of incremental, how do you get that implemented in a customer environment. So some customers or clients do not want external IP, they want to have complete ownership and change managers. And those scenarios, it becomes a time to market opportunity where we may give source code licensing and access and give the IP so that solution can be deployed much, much faster, much more effectively. But when it comes to building solutions that are heterogeneous, I mean, there are very many ways of protecting IP. If you take the edge and if there's somebody who's doing distributed edge analytics and the IP or the expertise that they're bringing to bear is something that runs really well in terms of just the edge on which is a lower and compute stack, right. In that case, you have to create contractual frameworks where you protect their IP. In terms of licensing, there are many net new ways people are stitching things together. I usually look for agnostic ways where, you know, you don't impact anybody negatively in the chain. First of all, IP protection is all around having good visibility and good understanding of what is the IP and who does it belong to. And the customer usually is very keen to stitch the best solution for them. So when we stitch these things together, we tend to tell, put the explicit contractual terms in place where nobody's IP is violated, right? But it is more more complicated than that. I'll give you another example where we build reference solutions when you build reference solutions. In that case, you enable multiple partners to play more closely more effectively. We work with the Industrial Internet Consortium here in Needham. And there is a concept of testbeds, where you can actually set a take a set of use cases create reference architecture and stand up some stack. So, I'll give you an example of an IIC approved recent testbed with the two of them. One of them I'll talk about is the connected worker testbed. So there are multiple partners involved in the mix. So when we get into a testbed, so because they are all IIC members, there is actually a framework that enables collaboration and sharing of IP, right, without explicitly giving control of it. So there is a framework that exists and then once we put a testbed together, then we just do the TPA signatures, individually one on one and then we can get it out. So when we work in these multi-partner ecosystems and bodies that enable this collaborative environments, it becomes easier. So the IIC test was if you go to industrialinternetconsortium.org and look at the testbeds you can actually see like the microgrid testbed is Wipro National Instruments, Cisco, RTI. And in the case, all of these testbeds, so everybody's bringing in their piece of acumen and knowledge and IP into the mix. But when you stitch together a reference solution like this, then it helps everybody win, together with the customer. So that is one model in a many too many scenarios. But IP protection is very important, I think understanding and respecting IP. And making sure you have a governance framework that enables protection, is a must do especially in the IoT world and consumable and consumer areas where there are multitudes of technologies that are coming in and they have a very short lifespan. They come to bear and then they disappear. Is a little bit, they are, again IP is important, but it is a little bit different than how we traditionally approach IP protection in the enterprise customer, landscape that we operate in. - [Instructor] So the next question that we have is a little bit more general. "How are you using IoT for healthcare?" - Oh, IoT for healthcare is a very broad set of capabilities. So if you look at we work with a lot of diagnostic companies. In fact, in Barcelona, we had one of our largest customers that IoT solution will Congress on stage with us talking about how the various health care diagnostic machines are smart and connected and how those are managed in terms of the types of tests that can be done on those machines. So all the the assets that are involved in providing health care are smart and connected. So managing them, enabling them is a check so asset management of healthcare devices is a very prolific set of use cases we work on. If you look at this other aspect I mentioned about all the data that we have about our ourselves with all the variables that we have on us getting all that data integrated and connected with clinical setting data and then optimizing it. And providing a single pane of glass is a big set of use cases. If you look at home care, the ability to provide elder care and patient care in remote settings, like I know we have worked on several dialysis care equipment connected. It's all devices and machines that are connected, that can provide a certain service to the patient. So patient care solutions, enabled by smart connected devices is an area of big focus. It's primarily asset management of the asset, but it enables you to do product as a service. I mean, the service is what matters. And you can now dispense off service at a very, very fine grained control viewpoint. In addition to that, I think, things to do with the provider space, if you look at anything to do with the hospital setting today. I mean, you look at a smart, connected ICU, how they all operate, how they, frankly, we have done some really interesting work in the space and realized how important time sensitive networks in a hospital infrastructure, in terms of making sure everything is calibrated to a simple baseline and most often you walk into an operating room or you walk into an ICU find devices that are operating on different clocks, which are not synchronized at all. And so when you get that one peanut, what was the patient doing at 10:52. That would be a very difficult thing to answer. So healthcare is a very, very interesting space healthcare is truly consummating transformative, people are aging, the ability to provide good quality care effectively, and then manage the outcomes is enabled by IoT. If you reach out to me personally, I'll provide you additional connects within the organization, can provide you a lot more details. - [Instructor] Great, I've got a question. "Poorly secured IoT devices and services "can serve as a potential entry point "for cyber attacks and expose user data to theft "by leaving data streams inadequately protected. "How do you address that?" - It's a very important area of focus. Security does not have a black and white answer saying, you know, a risk has been identified and it has been mitigated and stopped, right because the risks are always evolving. It's a continuous journey. We actually do security and threat assessments and we do solutioning work around that. I think it's not that traditional, perimeter based security models. Because IoT is not just millions of devices and endpoints, it's billions of them, right? So how do you have a very tiered architecture where you are reinforcing and securing every element in the chain? Right, because one as you said, right, one weak link somewhere is sufficient to get penetration in, right. And we have had many examples of where poorly protected endpoints have been used as access points to get in into the network and do the DOS kind of attacks. Right, so security is a big topic in itself. Designing secure endpoints, designing good end to end security all the way from provisioning the devices and the endpoints to actually managing the data path and the control path more effectively is being done. I think there's a lot of innovation happening in that space, a couple of areas where I would share some frameworks, right. As I mentioned earlier, the Industrial Internet Consortium is a good area where they have done, there is actually a security reference architecture that we follow. We actually helped build it as well. And so every testbed that goes through the if it's a connected work a testbed, or a microgrid testbed, it has to go through the security assessment and the security review. The idea is security is big. Security is broad, from doing SOCs and monitoring security, to actually hardening an environment and protecting it. We work in all those spaces. I think one area with that I would again request is I provide you additional details on projects and how endpoints are heard and if it's a gateway or if it's a sensor, communication module, what are some of the things that you do to to make sure that it is protected or at least known risks are mitigated, because not everything is known and it's an evolving threat pattern, right? Very, very interesting area, but look out, read through some of the reference architectures on security that are published by the Industrial Internet Consortium and some of the other bodies in fact, at World Economic Forum in Davos this last couple of months ago also, there's a safety and security paper that we published along with around what frameworks will enable better mitigation path to this risk, great question. - [Instructor] So the next question I have is, "How can design an IoT go hand in hand?" - Product design and customer experiences that are at the core of product use. Be it large industrial asset or be it consumable that we are wearing, right. Design thinking, the sheer approach of design thinking and then designing products and services that are more customer friendly, more user friendly and enhances and improves upon our likeliness of using those products and services, is a must do. I mean, design focus today for any IoT endpoint, IoT endpoint, it could be a product or could be a service enabled through an endpoint is a must do. Customer experiences can only be done and thought through when you have a designer involved, somebody with a creative mind. - [Instructor] So before we wrap up, I will say we don't have any more questions active. If anybody else out there has additional questions, please send them over to me, so that we can have those answered for you. And in the meantime, I'd love to say thank you. It's wonderful to have you back. We like to have Alumni, stay connected and stay connected in their roles and their responsibilities. And it's fantastic to have you come back on campus. It's an area that's got a lot of interest from our students. And I think you're gonna have students following up based on some messages I've received while you're here. - I appreciate the opportunity, I just have to go eat some campus food before I go. (laughing) - [Instructor] I'm not sure you need to do that. Well, I don't see any additional questions that have come in. Jayraja really would like to thank you very much for making the trip back to MIT. And we appreciate that. For those that are online, this webinar will be available after the broadcast. A little bit later today or tomorrow, we should have this available for you for review or passing along to any of your colleagues that may be interested. Thank you very much. - Thank you for your time. 