 Sascha Steiner is a regular team member of the T-Systems Innovation Center  in Munich, where customers can experience live – and touch and feel – ... ... information and communications technology innovations. The Innovation Center does not see itself as a museum  of technology. Sascha Steiner works there on the future – ... ... in innovation projects together with partners, customers and startups. Get up, go there, tackle things, understand them, and once you have  understood them you can readily draw an analog conclusion that relates ... ... to your own business, asking where can I use this or that in my company  and my business processes, where does it generate added value for me. That is surely the best that can happen – for the customer to have  the brainwave, to help develop it or for us to develop it jointly. We don’t do standard consulting or teaching by rote here.  The Innovation Center approach works differently: It is not that we say we think the automaker’s process for him.  We understand our part and he understands his part best – and we ... ... try to bring the two together, to be a kind of orchestrator,  a catalytic converter if you like. Because we have a whole lot ... ... of exciting and large-scale platforms like 5G, edge computing,  and so on. Big words and gigantic technology areas. Sascha Steiner analyzes new technologies and then identifies potential  areas in which they can be used. Such as for the next generation ... ... mobile communications standard. At the beginning of May 2018  in Berlin, Telekom erected the first 5G antennas in Europe. 5G is not just a mobile communications network that goes faster,  higher, further. It stands for fundamental change. I can really ... ... connect different network technologies and – for me that is the  main benefit – completely separate the physical level from the software, ... ... the logical level, and really develop special networks that can  perform special functions for industries – and that is something ... ... entirely new. I can achieve an extremely low latency when I need it,  for example, and especially in edge computing for industrial plant control ... ... or for Augmented Reality applications in the field, truly valuable  applications that are just not possible with the existing ... ... network and the existing cloud architecture. The Innovation Center as a combination of showroom and workroom  also serves the innovation teams as a test environment. We can also try out a great deal ourselves on the laboratory and  experimentation platform, evaluating it to see what is really worthwhile. We show it to the customers, get feedback from them at first hand –  and that in turn inspires us to carry on developing. In other words, ... ... it is our implementation platform for the entire innovation  management platform. And that means it is much more productive than ... ... theoretical desk work and calculating the discounted business case  to use the Innovation Center time and again throughout the entire cycle. 