 Hello, I am Karim Nassar with Siemens PLM Software. Today, I am going to present to you Simcenter Webapp Server, our solution for running system simulation models everywhere. System simulation has become a must-have for the design process. Not only simulation experts and advanced users need to access a digital twin; an increasing number of project engineers and technical salespersons, without access to a Simcenter Amesim desktop, need to run system simulation models in order to give predictive information to their customers. To offer to this audience an easy-to-use, zero-installation and cost-effective solution, Siemens PLM Software comes with Simcenter Webapp Server. This server-client, web-based solution allows for access to simulation results relevant to you thanks to pre-defined model parameterization. To do this, all you need is an internet browser. How does Simcenter Webapp Server work? The model author prepares a model by defining which parameters and variables are accessible through Simcenter Webapp Server. This is done by using the watch parameters and variables which are standard Simcenter Amesim features. Then, the model author uploads the model to the server and shares it with end-users. Each end-user gets a secure access to a dedicated webapp - through a login and a password - which allows him to parameterize and run the model. Thus, the user can provide information on the performance of mechatronic products to his customers everywhere in the world, using any kind of devices. The models are stored on the server and the simulation is run from the server, so that the end-user does not need a powerful computer. Simcenter Webapp Server is installed on your company premises, meaning that at no point in time do your models and corresponding intellectual property leave your company infrastructure. The solution supports Simcenter Amesim models but can also be used for Simcenter System Synthesis models via Teamcenter Active Workspace. To sum up, Simcenter Webapp Server democratizes the access to system simulation digital twins for non-experts. It helps IT organizations simplify the deployment of system simulation to a wider range of users while ensuring that intellectual property stays at the company premises. Thank you for watching. For more information, please visit our website. 