Risk FactorsLegal and Regulatory Risks  Interchange fees and acceptance practices receive significant and intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide, and the resulting decisions, regulations and legislation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.    Interchange fees, which represent a sharing of a portion of payments system costs among the issuers and acquirers participating in a four-party payments system, are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards.  Typically, interchange fees are paid by the merchant financial institution (the acquirer) to the cardholder financial institution (the issuer) in connection with transactions initiated on our payments system.  Interchange fees play a key role in balancing the costs consumers and merchants pay in a four-party payments system.  They are also a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process over our network.  We do not earn revenues from interchange fees. We have historically set default interchange fees in the United States and certain other countries.  In some jurisdictions, our interchange fees and related practices are subject to legislation, regulation and litigation as electronic forms of payment have become relatively more important to local economies.  Regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation.    Examples of legislative activity related to interchange fees include:•In the United States, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted into law requiring, among other things, debit and prepaid “interchange transaction fees” to be “reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction.”  In October 2011, the U.S. Federal Reserve implemented regulations in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act limiting interchange fees for debit and prepaid transactions.  See our risk factor in "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act for more detail.    •In the European Union, in January 2012, the European Commission issued a “Green-Paper” (typically the first step in the European legislative process) identifying a number of concerns with the payments industry, including concerns about interchange fees. In October 2012, the European Commission announced that it intends to propose legislation in the second quarter of 2013 regulating interchange fees and covering other elements included within the Green Paper. 23Table of Contents•In Poland, in 2012, the Polish parliament began drafting legislation that would mandate a significant reduction in interchange fees and limit our ability to enforce our “honor all cards” rule. Examples of competition-related regulatory proceedings or inquiries around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include:  •In the European Union, in December 2007, the European Commission issued a negative decision (upheld by a judgment of the General Court of the European Union, which we are appealing) with respect to our cross-border interchange fees for consumer credit and debit cards under European Union competition rules.  •In Canada, in December 2010, the Canadian Competition Bureau filed an application with the Canadian Competition Tribunal to strike down rules related to MasterCard's interchange fees, including its “honor all cards”, “no surcharge” and non-discrimination rules.•In France, in January 2013, the French Competition Authority re-opened an investigation concerning our domestic interchange rates and informed us it intends to commence a formal proceeding and issue a statement of objections unless we offer commitments to reduce our interchange fees.•In Hungary, MasterCard Europe is appealing the Hungarian Competition Office December 2009 decision ruling that MasterCard Europe's historic domestic interchange fees violate Hungarian competition law and fining MasterCard Europe approximately $3 million.  The appeal has been stayed pending the outcome of our appeal of the European Commission decision.  Additionally, in 2012, the Hungarian Competition Office began an investigation into whether MasterCard is dominant in Hungary's payments industry and whether we abused that dominance in setting our interchange fees.   •In the United Kingdom, in February 2007, the Office of Fair Trading ("OFT") commenced a new investigation of MasterCard Europe's U.K. interchange fees, following the voiding by the Competition Appeals Tribunal of the OFT's 2006 decision that our previous domestic interchange fees violated U.K. and European Union competition law.  The OFT has suspended its investigation pending the outcome of our appeal of the European Commission decision.  Examples of regulation, or potential regulation, by central banks and similar types of regulatory authorities around the world with respect to interchange fees and acceptance practices include: •In Australia, the Reserve Bank of Australia enacted regulations in 2002 (which have been subsequently reviewed and not withdrawn) controlling the costs that can be considered in setting interchange fees for four-party payment card systems such as ours and capping the average of such interchange fees. •In South Africa, in September 2010, the South African Reserve Bank commenced a process (including the  appointment of an independent consultant) to determine the manner in which interchange fees for all payments systems in South Africa should be set.  •In Canada, there has been increasing attention by policymakers on payments, and specifically the cost of acceptance, which includes interchange fees.  In 2010, the Canadian Department of Finance implemented a voluntary “Code of Conduct” on related issues for payment card industry participants in Canada, by which MasterCard voluntarily agreed to abide.  In 2011, the Minister of Finance formed a task force to make non-binding recommendations with respect to the future of Canadian payments, including a focus on the cost of acceptance.  The task force issued its final report in March 2012.  In response, the Minister of Finance is considering revising the Code of Conduct to specifically address mobile payments, forming an advisory committee to advise his office on matters of payments policy, and evaluating whether and to what extent the domestic payments system governance framework should be revised.  •In Brazil, in December 2011, the Central Bank of Brazil (together with competition agencies in Brazil) issued a follow-up to its May 2010 report, providing an analysis of the evolution of the payments industry. The report includes indications that it is closely monitoring trends with respect to interchange fees and the cost of acceptance in general, and raises questions about the impact of the no-surcharge rule in the Brazilian consumer protection code.See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for a detailed description of regulatory proceedings and inquiries into interchange fees.  We believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on interchange matters and, as a result, developments in any one jurisdiction may influence regulators' approach to interchange fees in other jurisdictions.  See our risk factor in "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" in this Part I, Item 1A related to the impact of new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product.  24Table of ContentsAdditionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation.  Such litigation includes: •In the United States, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws.  These suits (the settlement of which has been preliminarily approved) alleged, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among MasterCard and its customer banks, and MasterCard, Visa and their customer banks in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade.  The suits sought treble damages, attorneys' fees and injunctive relief. •In Canada, a number of class action suits have been filed against MasterCard, Visa and a number of large Canadian banks relating to MasterCard and Visa interchange fees and rules related to interchange fees, including “honor all cards” and “no surcharge” rules. •In the United Kingdom, since May 2012, a number of retailers have filed claims against us for unspecified damages with respect to MasterCard's U.K. interchange fees.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.If issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services.  This could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive.  Issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability.  In addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them.  This could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings.  We are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity.  The potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on MasterCard relative to its competitors.  If we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in MasterCard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages.   The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.   The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in the United States includes provisions that provide for the regulation by the Federal Reserve of debit and prepaid interchange fees and certain other network industry practices.  Among other things, it requires debit and prepaid “interchange transaction fees” (referred to in the Dodd-Frank Act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be “reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction.” Additionally, it provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive network arrangements for debit or prepaid cards or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit or prepaid transactions. In October 2011, Federal Reserve regulations went into effect implementing these provisions in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act (with certain exceptions for issuer compliance with the exclusivity requirements).  The regulations limit per-transaction U.S. debit and prepaid interchange fees to 21 cents plus five basis points.  The issuer may receive a fraud prevention adjustment of an additional one cent if it meets certain requirements.  The interchange limitations are a significant reduction from average interchange fees in effect before the regulations were implemented.  The regulations contain exemptions from the interchange limitations for issuers that, together with their affiliates, have less than $10 billion in assets, as well as for debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered payment program and certain reloadable prepaid cards.  Also, while the regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions.  See our risk factor in "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide.  Issuers are required to file various types of information regarding debit and prepaid transactions with the Federal Reserve every two years beginning in 2013, and such information could be used by the Federal Reserve to reexamine and potentially re-set the interchange cap.  With respect to network arrangements and transaction routing, the regulations require debit and prepaid cards to be enabled with two unaffiliated payments networks.  The regulations also provide that an issuer or payments network may not inhibit the ability of any person that accepts or honors a debit or prepaid card to direct the routing of the card transaction for processing over any network enabled on the card.  25Table of ContentsThe Dodd-Frank Act also created two new independent regulatory bodies - the CFPB and FSOC.  The CFPB has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products.  It is not yet entirely clear whether and/or to what extent the CFPB will regulate broader aspects of payments network operations.  The FSOC is tasked, among other responsibilities, with identifying “systemically important” payment, clearing and settlement systems that will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements.  To date, MasterCard has not been designated “systemically important” under the applicable standard.  If MasterCard were designated “systemically important,” it would be subject to new risk management regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities.  New regulations could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements.  Also, a “systemically important” payments system could be required to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve or another federal agency for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system.  These developments or actions could increase the cost of operating our business and may make electronic payment transactions less attractive to card issuers, as well as consumers.  This could result in a reduction in our payments volume and revenues. If issuers, acquirers and/or merchants modify their business operations or otherwise take actions in response to this legislation which have the result of reducing the number of debit or prepaid transactions we process or the network fees we collect, the Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  Failure by our customers or us to adjust our strategies successfully to compete in the new environment would increase this impact. We recently entered into an agreement to settle the current U.S. merchant class litigation that, among other things, requires us to not restrict U.S. merchants, subject to certain conditions, from surcharging credit card transactions, which could impact the use of electronic payments and result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes and could in turn materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  We have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the United States, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using MasterCard products instead of other means.  As part of the terms of the settlement of the U.S. merchant class litigation entered into by the Company in October 2012 (and subject to final court approval), the Company and Visa have modified their no-surcharge or comparable rules to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations (including ensuring that MasterCard or Visa cardholders are not unfairly subject to surcharging relative to cardholders of competing credit card networks such as American Express, Discover and PayPal, should those networks enforce rules that restrict surcharging).  It is possible that over time U.S. merchants in some or all merchant categories may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change, which could make credit card programs less desirable to consumers in the United States.  In the event that such merchants surcharge credit cards, this could result in consumers having a less favorable view of our products and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  New regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity with respect to the payments industry in one jurisdiction or of one product may lead to new regulations (or impact pending regulatory proceedings) in other jurisdictions or of other products.  Regulators around the world increasingly look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. Consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. For example, the December 2007 European Commission decision with respect to cross-border interchange fees could also lead to additional competition authorities in European member states commencing investigations or proceedings regarding domestic interchange fees or initiating regulation.  The General Court's judgment in May 2012 upholding the European Commission's decision has increased the possibility of such actions, as well as the possibility of an adverse outcome for us in related and pending matters.  Similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product.  For example, regulations affecting debit transactions (such as the Federal Reserve's final rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Act) could lead to regulation of other consumer products (including credit).  See our risk factor in "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payment services in certain countries. As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product.  These include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect.  Either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 26Table of ContentsGovernment actions preferring or protecting providers of domestic payment services in certain countries may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.  Governments in some countries, such as China, Russia, Ukraine and India could act (or have acted) to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or may otherwise create (or have created) its own national provider.  These governments may take this action to support these providers.  They may also take action to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  As an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies.  Such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers.  Our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed.  This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand.  The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues.  We are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and other devices are used.  In particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations.  Regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years.  See “Business-Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation.  In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, examples include:  •Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism - We are subject to AML regulations such as Section 352 of the USA PATRIOT Act in the United States, AML laws enacted in India (which impose requirements on payments systems, such as MasterCard's, and their customers) and various other AML laws with respect to the activities of our internet payment gateway and prepaid card program management services. Money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action and/or damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our products or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, regulations imposed by OFAC impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the SDN List. We take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with OFAC sanctions including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the SDN List; however, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system and that our reputation may suffer due to our customers' association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions.  •Retail Payment System Regulation - Several countries, such as India, Russia and Ukraine have implemented, or are authorized to implement, regulation of certain aspects of payments systems, under which payment system operators, such as MasterCard, operate under the authority and broad oversight of a government regulator.  Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards.  Moreover, in countries such as Russia and Ukraine, this oversight could be used to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, which could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  See our risk factor in "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" in this Part I, Item 1A, with respect to government actions which may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries.   •Issuer Practice Legislation and Regulation - Our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations applicable to issuers and more generally to banks and other financial institutions, which impact us as a consequence. Examples include the Federal Reserve regulations in the United States addressing any overdraft fees imposed in connection with ATM and debit card transactions, the CFPB's investigation into bank overdraft practices (and any further potential litigation on this) and regulations instituted in Germany requiring the provision of certain consumer identification information in connection with prepaid transactions (with similar legislation being considered in other jurisdictions).  These regulations may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers.   •Regulation of Internet Transactions - Regulation of Internet transactions such as Internet gambling transactions and prescription drug practices can impact our customers and MasterCard as a payments system operator.   27Table of ContentsIncreased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation.   Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards and devices issued and could increase our costs. We are subject to regulations related to privacy and data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we could be negatively impacted by these regulations.  Recently, these topics have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in jurisdictions around the world, in particular in Europe, where the European Directive 95/46/EC is in the process of being revised.  Regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may raise concerns and scrutiny of our practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information.  Failure to comply with the privacy and data protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation.  Any additional, or changes to, regulations in these areas (as well as the manner in which such laws could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations.  Changes to these laws could also impact our business operations by requiring changes to our data practices and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring and the development of information-based products and solutions.  In addition, these regulations may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue.  Any of these changes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. Liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  We are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.  Except as otherwise discussed in Note 18, we have not established reserves for any of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future.  In the event we are found liable in any of these material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation.  For example, as described above, as part of the terms of the settlement of the U.S. merchant class litigation entered into by the Company in October 2012 (and subject to final court approval), the Company and Visa modified their no-surcharge rules in January 2013 to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations (including ensuring that MasterCard or Visa cardholders are not unfairly subject to surcharging relative to cardholders of competing credit card networks such as American Express, Discover and PayPal, should those networks enforce rules that restrict surcharging).  Any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  Potential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments.  Potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the United States, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate and tax payments.  This could adversely impact our results of operations.  See also Note 17 (Income Tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, 