Further, information security risks for global payments and technology companies such as MasterCard have significantly increased in recent years.  Although to date we have not experienced any material impacts relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer such losses in the future.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Business Risks” in Part I, Item 1A related to a failure or breach of our security systems or infrastructure as a result of cyber-attacks. Impact of Foreign Currency RatesOur overall operating results can be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the euro and Brazilian real.  The functional currency of MasterCard Europe, our principal European operating subsidiary, is the euro, and the functional currency of our Brazilian subsidiary is the Brazilian real.  Accordingly, the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the euro and Brazilian real impacts the translation of our European and Brazilian subsidiaries’ operating results into the U.S. dollar.  During 2015, the euro and the Brazilian real devalued against the U.S. dollar by 16% and 28%, respectively, versus the comparable period in 2014.The following table provides a summary of the foreign currency translational impact of changes in the U.S. dollar average exchange rates against the euro and Brazilian real to our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2015, and 2014:  Positive (Negative) Impact from Foreign Currency Translation Percent 2015 2014Net Revenue(6)% (1)%Operating Expenses4% 1%Net Income(7)% Less than (1)%In addition, changes in foreign currency exchange rates directly impact the calculation of gross dollar volume (“GDV”) and gross euro volume (“GEV”), which are used in the calculation of our domestic assessments fees, cross-border volume fees and volume related rebates and incentives.  These foreign currency impacts are incremental to the translation impacts discussed above.  In 33Table of Contentsmost non-European regions, GDV is calculated based on local currency spending volume converted to U.S. dollars using average exchange rates for the period.  In Europe, GEV is calculated based on local currency spending volume converted to euros using average exchange rates for the period.  As a result, our domestic assessments, cross-border volume fees and volume related rebates and incentives are impacted by the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus primarily non-European local currencies and the strengthening or weakening of the euro versus primarily European local currencies.  For example, our billing in Australia is in U.S. dollar, however, consumer spend in Australia is in Australian dollar.  The foreign currency transactional impact of converting Australian dollars to our billing currency in U.S. dollars will have an impact on the revenue generated.  The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar is evident when GDV growth on a U.S. dollar converted basis is compared to GDV growth on a local currency basis.  In 2015, GDV on a U.S. dollar converted basis increased 1% versus GDV growth on a local currency basis of 13%.  In 2014, GDV on a U.S. dollar converted basis increased 10% versus GDV growth on a local currency basis of 13%.  The Company attempts to manage these foreign currency exposures through its foreign exchange risk management activities, which are discussed further in Note 20 (Foreign Exchange Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, 