As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product. These include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements. Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. Either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.    Governments in some countries, such as Russia, Ukraine and India could act to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment card and processing providers.  These governments may take this action to support these providers.  They may also take this action to displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  As an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider (and in the case of Venezuela have ordered), regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies.  Such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers.  Our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed.  This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand. The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may result in the imposition of costly new compliance burdens on us and our customers and may lead to increased costs and decreased transaction volumes and revenues.  We are subject to regulations that affect the payment industry in the many countries in which our cards are used.  In particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and abroad, and, consequently, MasterCard is at times affected by such regulations.  Regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years.  See “Business-Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation.  In addition to the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, examples include: •Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism -  MasterCard is subject to anti-money laundering regulation, such as Section 352(a) of the USA PATRIOT Act in the United States and an anti-money laundering law enacted in India (which imposes requirements on payment systems, such as MasterCard's, and their customers).  In addition, regulations imposed by OFAC impose restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the SDN List.  It is possible that transactions that do not comply with OFAC sanctions may be processed through our payment system, and that our reputation may suffer due to some of our financial institutions' association with these countries or the existence of any such transactions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. •Government-Imposed Market Participation Regulations -  Several countries have implemented, or are authorized to implement, payment systems regulation, such as the Indian Payments and Settlement Systems Act 2007, under which payment system operators, such as MasterCard, operate under the authority and broad oversight of the Reserve Bank of India.  Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. •Issuer Practice Legislation and Regulation - Issuer practices legislation and regulation, including the Credit CARD Act (which was signed into law in the United States in May 2009 and is being implemented through regulations issued by the Federal Reserve), are having a significant impact on the disclosures made by our customers and on our customers' account terms and business practices by, among other things, making it more difficult for credit card issuers to price credit cards for future credit risk and significantly affecting the pricing, credit allocation, and business models of most major 26Table of Contentscredit card issuers.  Additional regulations include regulations by the Board of Governors regulating overdraft fees imposed in connection with ATM and debit card transactions. •Regulation of Internet Transactions - Regulation of Internet transactions include legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress (and applicable to payment system participants, including MasterCard and our customers in the United States) requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of Internet gambling transactions, as well as various additional legislative and regulatory activities with respect to Internet transactions which are being considered in the United States.  Increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems, which could reduce our revenues materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation.  Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could decrease the number of payment cards issued and could increase our costs.  We and our customers are also subject to regulations related to privacy and data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business, and we and our customers could be negatively impacted by these regulations.  Recently, these topics have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the United States (at both the federal and state level), in Europe as well as in other jurisdictions around the world.  In 2011, additional privacy and data protection laws and regulations were enacted in several countries, including India, Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela.  Regulation of privacy and data protection and information security in these and other jurisdictions may increase the costs of our customers to issue payment cards, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards that they issue.  Any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability.  Finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data protection and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation.   Determinations which we could make in the future to establish reserves or liabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.  As discussed in Note 20 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report, we recorded a $770 million pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2011 which represents our estimate for the financial portion of a settlement of the U.S. merchant litigation cases.  Except as otherwise discussed in Note 20, we have not established reserves for any other of the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved and we are unable to estimate at this time the amount of charges, if any, that may be required to provide reserves for these matters in the future.  We may determine in the future that a charge for all or a portion of any of our other legal proceedings is required, including charges related to legal fees.  In addition, we may be required to record an additional charge if we incur liabilities in excess of reserves that we have previously recorded.  Such charges, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent.  See Note 20 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.  Limitations on our business and other penalties resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation.  For example, as a result of the settlement agreement in connection with the U.S. merchant lawsuit in 2003, merchants have the right to reject our debit cards in the United States while still accepting other MasterCard-branded cards, and vice versa.  Moreover, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a pre-tax charge in the U.S. merchant litigation cases based on progress in the mediation process.  The plaintiffs in these cases are also seeking changes to our business practices.  See Note 20 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.  Any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.  27Table of ContentsPotential changes in the tax laws applicable to us could materially increase our tax payments. Potential changes in existing tax laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental tax reform in the United States, including the treatment of earnings of controlled foreign corporations, may impact our effective tax rate.  See also Note 19 (Income Tax) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, 