If we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats.  Our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth.  Our customers can also develop their own competitive services.  We also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations.  A number of these new entrants rely principally on the Internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Potential future changes in the competitive landscape, including disintermediation from other participants in the payments value chain, also could harm our business. We expect that there may be future changes in the competitive landscape, including:  •Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process.  For example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers.  Large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us.  •Rapid and significant technological changes could occur, resulting in new and innovative payment programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of MasterCard products. •Competitors, customers, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added services we currently provide to support our transaction processing which could, if significant numbers of cardholders choose to use them, replace our own processing services or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these services. •Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. Our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. We face continued intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  We generate revenue from the fees that we charge issuers and acquirers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services and from assessments on the dollar volume of activity on cards and other devices carrying our brands.  In order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our card base, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support to customers that issue and promote our products.  In order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts.  Over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure.  The demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth.  We may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, 20Table of Contentsincreased pressure on prices enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives.  We may not succeed in these efforts.   In the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry.  Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers.  In addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment.  Our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.  These factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.   Continuing consolidation or other changes in or affecting the banking industry could result in a loss of business for us and create pressure on the fees we charge our customers, resulting in lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  The banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past.  Consolidations have included customers with a substantial MasterCard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor.  If significant consolidation were to continue in the banking industry, it may result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects.  In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business.  Consolidation in the banking industry, whether as a result of an acquisition of a substantial MasterCard portfolio by an institution with a strong relationship with a competitor or the combination of two institutions with which we have a strong relationship, would also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase the bargaining power of our customers.  This consolidation could lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers.  Any such lower prices and/or more favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  If we lose a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest customers, our revenue could fluctuate and decrease significantly in the longer term, which could have a material adverse long-term impact on our business. Most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and in certain circumstances may be terminated by our customers.  Our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services.  Accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers.  Loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  Merchants continue to be focused on the costs of accepting electronic forms of payment, which may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings and may increase the costs of our incentive programs, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Merchants are an important constituency in our payments system.  We rely on both our relationships with them, as well as their relationships with our issuer and acquirer customers, to expand the acceptance of our cards and payment devices.  We also work with merchants to help them enable new sales channels, create better purchase experiences, improve efficiencies, increase revenues and fight fraud.  In the retail industry, there is a set of larger merchants with increasingly global scope.  We believe that these merchants are having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry, including MasterCard.  Some large merchants have supported the legal, regulatory and legislative challenges to interchange fees that MasterCard has been defending, including the U.S. merchant litigations as to which the Company recently entered into a settlement agreement (which has received final court approval).  See our risk factor in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide.  Also see our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act.  The continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings.   Merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices.  As merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase 21Table of Contentsthe amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives.   Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and may have a material adverse impact on our business.  Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues.  In addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors.  Such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned.  A significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.   We depend significantly on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers to manage our payments system.  If we are unable to maintain those relationships, or if our issuers and acquirers are unable to maintain their relationships with cardholders or merchants that accept our products for payment, our business may be materially and adversely affected.  While we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants and governments, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services.  We do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products.  Each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features.  In addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers.  As a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them.  In turn, our customers' success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence.  If our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Business Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to how we guarantee certain third party obligations for further discussion.With the exception of the United States and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors.  Because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. We also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business.  If our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations.  In addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the United States than we do.  As a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards and other payment devices carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions.  We rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our products and programs.  Although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful.  If the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. The marketplace's perception of our brands and reputation may materially and adversely affect our overall business.  Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business.  The ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of us and our industry.  Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory”.  Moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.  We have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace.  Under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, 22Table of Contentscould also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands.  Such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business.   Our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations.As we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments.  These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:•Governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies.  Changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services.  •Our work with governments subjects us to U.S. and international anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.  A violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact.  •Working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government.  Any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.Global economic events in financial markets have directly affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.     The competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business.  Adverse economic events (including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention) have impacted the financial markets around the world.  The economies of the United States and numerous countries around the world have been significantly impacted by this economic turmoil.  Countries have experienced credit ratings actions by rating agencies, including several in Europe as well as the United States.  In addition, some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments.  Many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations.  Many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted.  MasterCard's financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies.  The condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance.  Such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following:•Declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent.•Low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders. •Debt limit and budgetary discussions in the United States could affect the United States’ credit rating and could affect consumer confidence and spending. •Our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults.•Uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable.•Our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.•Our customers may decrease spending for value-added services.23Table of Contents•Government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products.•Tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility.•Our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers.  See Note 19 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for further discussion of our settlement exposure.•Our overall business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Business Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to additional consolidation for further discussion. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. A decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions.  We process substantially all cross-border transactions using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees.  Revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency.  Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions.  These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases.  Any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations.  General economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  The global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending.  General economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending, as well as the impact of events in the United States such as deadlines on the debt limit) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices.  Also, as we are principally based in the United States, a negative perception of the United States could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business.As a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity.   We may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons.  If a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of MasterCard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss.  In addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds.  Our MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $41 billion as of December 31, 2013.  We have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $3 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers.  In the event that MasterCard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, MasterCard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from the failed customer.  Subject to approval by our Board of Directors, customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of MasterCard.  While we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited.  As a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Moreover, during 2013, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by adverse economic events in the global financial markets.  These conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform 24Table of Contentsunder our settlement guarantees.  For more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of December 31, 2013, see Note 19 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.  Separately, MasterCard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform.  Any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.A failure or breach of our security systems or infrastructure as a result of cyber-attacks could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.  Information security risks for payments and technology companies such as MasterCard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties.  These threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. These threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches.  Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks.  Our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations.  In addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control.  We routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks.  Because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks.  To date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches.  However, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises.  Such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties.  Any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to MasterCard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities.  If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded.We maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks.  We also test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities.  Despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future.  Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of MasterCard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities.  As a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.  As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  Any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. If our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our results of operations would be materially reduced. Our transaction processing systems and other key service offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events.  Our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems.  A disaster that occurs 25Table of Contentsat, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. Although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategi