 Today we will look at how you can gain deeper visibility stronger controls and enhance security for your cloud applications with Microsoft Cloud App Security. We will show you how you can  discover all SaaS Apps used and get a risk assessment. See policy violations and how to take actions on a file level. And finally how you can detect anomalies and mitigate threats. Here you can see  Microsoft Cloud App Securities console. We have four key menus at the top Discover, Investigate, Control, and finally Alerts providing you a wide set of capabilities including visibility, data controls, and threat prevention  for your Cloud Applications. Let's go ahead and start with Discovery Dashboard. Cloud App Security discovers all of the cloud applications used in your environment. It identifies all users and IP addresses accessing the applications. It also conducts risk assessments and provides a risk score for each application. You do not need to deploy any agents  on users devices for us to conduct this analysis because we are collecting this information from the firewalls and proxies. To drill down, let's click on Discovered apps. Here I see all of the Discovered applications  in the organization. I can see the applications that are  sanctioned or unsanctioned I can also filter those if I would like to get a scoped view. I can also drill down on the specific application. Here is a risk assessment and risk score for Office 365. Cloud Up Security not only discovers more than  13,000 Cloud applications in use but it also provides an automated risk score by evaluating each Discovered service against more then sixty parameters. I can see all of the different parameters used for the risk evaluation. You can dive into more details for a specific parameter to get a breakdown on the score. I can see the weight of this perimeter in this category and which factors are considered for the risk assessment. Discovering which applications are in use across your organization is just the first step in making sure your sensitive corporate data is protected. Cloud App security also provides powerful ongoing reporting analytics capabilities for you to gain  the complete context of your cloud usage such as usage patterns Download or Upload traffic as well as your top your top users. The next step is to maintain control over your apps even after you approve use. To see this in action let's see file level violations  to an existing policy that I have in place and how to take actions to mitigate the risk towards that policy violation. Here I am at the Control Policies tab. Using Cloud App Security you can be build  granular control security policies easily. You can either use out of the box policies or build and customize your own. Here I have a file policy for PCI compliance  for identifying sensitive publicly shared files containing customer credit card numbers and providing options for investigation and remediation. If I click on the policy I'll see all files violating this policy. Lets double click on this file and investigate. I can see the owner of this file all of the collaborators when it was created and when it was modified. I can also see the file hierarchy by clicking on View Parents in details. This file is located under one of our  customer information folders and it looks suspicious to have it  available in a public link. Based on my assessment now I can take an action. I can either put this file in user quarantine or I can make this link private. Deeper visibility and stronger controls are key components of providing  enterprise-grade security for your applications. But, we don't stop there Cloud App Security not only provides you  Discovery and Data Control features but also a powerful threat detection engine. Lets see how Cloud App security  helps you detect anomalies and prevent threats. For this I will go to Alert center. Alert center gathers all the red flags identified by Cloud App Security including anomaly and threat detection compliance violations and privileged accounts. Let's look into the general anomaly detection alert. Cloud App Security  advanced machine learning Heuristics learns how each user interacts  with each SaaS application and a behavior analysis assesses the risk in each transaction. Here we can see a user who is an administrator,  performing suspicious activities. Such as logging in from a new anonymous location in two countries simultaneously within an hour and having several failed login attempts. I can take a look at the details of this activity and take action to mitigate any threats right away. So that's Microsoft Cloud App Security providing deeper visibility and enhanced security for your cloud applications. As you saw, we not only secure Microsoft Cloud Apps but also third-party Cloud Apps. If you would like to learn more check out the link below. Thanks for watching. Microsoft Mechanics www.microsoft.com/mechanics 