  STAN GIBSON: In just a few years, the cloud has advanced from the fringe of technology to the mainstream, and the combination of public and private clouds, the hybrid cloud, has emerged as a must-have technology for organizations of all kinds. But putting the hybrid cloud to work for your business is not as easy as it might appear. The guidance of an expert can pay significant dividends. Hi, I'm Stan Gibson and I'll be your host and moderator for this live, interactive webcast. Joining me to explore the hybrid cloud paradigm are two experts. Lynda Stadtmueller, Vice President for Cloud Services at Frost & Sullivan. Welcome Linda! LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Thank you, Stan, and I'm pleased to be here. STAN GIBSON: And Shane Zide, Principal of Cloud Client Services at CDW. Welcome, Shane! SHANE ZIDE: Thank you, Stan. I'm excited to be here. I appreciate the audience's time and look forward to getting the poll data and any questions that get answered and asked during this process. STAN GIBSON: Well before we dive into our discussion with Lynda and Shane, just a quick word about this webcast. We are live and interactive and we'd like to hear from you in our audience. You may participate in two ways: First, send us your questions. As you are listening to the discussion, if a question occurs to you, please type it in to the Q&A box on your screen. We'll do our best to answer your questions during the Q&A segment of the webcast. Second, this webcast features several audience poll questions. When the question appears on your screen, please just select the answer that seems right to you and then press the submit button. We'll tally and discuss the results instantly. To participate in either of these features, you will need to disable your pop-up blocker. Lynda and Shane, to start off, just what is a hybrid cloud? Is there, in fact, more than one kind? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Well, you started with the question that's probably involved the biggest challenge with hybrid cloud. You know, our industry isn't governed by language police, which means that every provider can define hybrid the way that makes the most sense to them. To me, the most useful definition for hybrid is the definition that enterprises themselves follow. So we talked to Frost & Sullivan, my company, surveyed a number of IT decision makers and we asked them, "What do you expect from a hybrid cloud? What do you want to see?" And it turns out, enterprises want everything in their hybrid cloud. They want a range of deployment models. They want a range of types of services. They want Infrastructure-as-a-Service, Software-as-a-Service. They want their traditional premises-based data center. They want co-lo. They want it all. Some, almost 90% want all of these different deployment models integrated together into a hybrid cloud. The challenge, of course, is that there are very few providers who can offer that level of integration across so many unknown models and environments in a neat package for the enterprise to easily deploy. That is the biggest challenge of hybrid cloud. STAN GIBSON: Shane, what's your sense of the different types of hybrid cloud? SHANE ZIDE: You know, I agree with Linda. 10 years ago in the service provider industry when I first got started, you know, a customer would consider hybrid cloud where they would co-lo their storage frame inside the four walls of a data center and cross-connect into our, what we called then, a virtual cloud for compute and memory and that would be their hybrid instance. We have customers these days that strictly want private cloud, everything behind the firewall, but then all the different use cases for SaaS that they considered that to be their hybrid cloud strategy. I think the exciting part is that it really matches your business outcomes to really the two main questions of relevancy which is, does it help you increase innovation? Does it help you cut costs? And so, you can, there's no right or wrong way, and we enjoy helping customers figure out what's going to be the best match for them. STAN GIBSON: Well there are different types of hybrid cloud, but what's, talk about what's so compelling about the hybrid cloud paradigm. What kind of workloads, for example, and business use cases are really best for hybrid cloud? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Well, I think that what you'll find is that the reason hybrid cloud is so attractive to businesses is that they want the choice. They want to be able to optimally deploy different workloads in different environments, and to split the workloads across different environments. Every workload has different requirements in terms of security, cost that they're willing to spend, performance needs, which means that, you know, there's not a single, single place or a single deployment model that's best for everything. Hybrid gives the option to be the most cost-effective, have the most control over the entire environment, and that's important as businesses start to move toward an IT-as-a-Service model, a service broker model, where IT, instead of dictating to the lines of business how everything is going to be deployed, IT listens to the requirements from various lines of business and they move into a more agile way of doing business where they can more quickly deploy workloads out, more quickly make changes and upgrades. In that kind of a model, IT needs to have at their fingertips a whole range of different options to pull from in order to, as a whole, provide the most optimal solution. STAN GIBSON: Shane, what's your sense? SHANE ZIDE: You know, speaking about quickly and agility, we have a very large, national insurance provider that had their traditional SQL farms, their databases that were failing, because of age, formal applications and front-facing web servers and websites and they actually looked at Microsoft Azure to deploy what they call SQL-as-a-Service. So the only portion of that application design there was the databases that were in the cloud, so everything else was co-lo'd in a 3rd party data center, a direct connection into Microsoft Azure at that facility, but they were able to work quickly, bring up when a business had a need, IT was able to deliver by simply having a hybrid cloud scenario there with the databases, so it was an interesting use case. STAN GIBSON: Hmmm, very interesting, I should say. All right, well, we're going to go now to our first audience poll question of this webcast and the question is, "Where are you with regard to deploying a hybrid cloud?" And we want members of our audience to participate by making a selection. So your choices are: Thinking about it; Planning to deploy; Deploying; Fully deployed; or Not considering hybrid cloud, and we're going to give members of our audience just a few seconds to make their selection, and hit the submit button, and while they're doing that, Lynda and Shane, I'm going to guess that most people are probably in the thinking or planning stage, and probably very few would just not be considering hybrid cloud at all. That's my take, anyway. What do you think? Lynda? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, I would probably agree based on when I talked to enterprises. There's a lot of research going on. There's a lot of partial deployments out there as enterprises figure out what they really need and what they're maybe not getting from what they've already deployed, but I would agree that there's a lot of planning going on. STAN GIBSON: Planning. What's your sense, Shane? SHANE ZIDE: Yeah, when you look at the typical CDW customer, over the last 20 years, it's centralized IT and infrastructure and, so, in a lot of ways, a lot of our customers are playing catch-up for what the business units have been doing in AWS and application development and the hyper-visor clouds, so they're trying to get their hands around, "How do I control this? What are the right workloads and applications?" So it's a very fascinating time to see, at least our customer base, starting to plan and deploy. No one's going "cloud crazy" at the moment, but it's heartening to see the marketplace kind of driving the impact and change. STAN GIBSON: All right, well, let's take a look at the actual results from our audience, and interestingly, it's tied between thinking about it and planning to deploy and fully deployed in 3rd place there, with only 20%, and interestingly, nobody actually currently deploying among members of our audience, and no one is not considering the hybrid cloud either. So, I don't know, I think that's kind of an interesting response. I would have expected some to say deploying, but what do you think, Lynda and Shane? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Well, it could be a function of our audience here. There may be people already deploying that may actually not be looking for additional information at this point. They're still absorbing, they're still swallowing what they've already committed to, and are going to move on from here. STAN GIBSON: Very good point. Well, you know, I think that that, just to move right ahead, I think that maybe brings up our next question, and the question that I have is, how fast is hybrid cloud growing? Lynda? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: It is growing. It is growing very quickly, and I've surveyed enterprise IT decision makers for a number of years now, and in just 3 years, between 2013 and 2016, we've seen a tremendous jump, both in those who are currently using some form of hybrid cloud, as well as those who are planning. Now it's upwards of 70 some-odd percent are planning to or will have a hybrid cloud deployed in the next few years. It's tremendously popular and the growth is even higher than public cloud growth. STAN GIBSON: Shane, how are you seeing growth? SHANE ZIDE: Yeah, I think when you count all the Software-as-a-Service in the industry that an organization might be, whether by business line or in IT, test, dev and QA that might be out in different hyper-visor cloud platforms, so it's growing very rapidly and, back to our poll results there, you could've had a lot of the audience that were on here today who consider their hyper-converged, Nutanix and some other solutions that are behind their firewall today, almost like they're a service provider, internal cloud services in different areas of the business, so they could have already had that deployed, but then there's other areas based outside, as I previously mentioned, that are growing rapidly. STAN GIBSON: Well, I like, yes, also, though, what do you think organizations are actually looking to gain from hybrid cloud deployments? We talked about some of the benefits, but perhaps you could drill down into that a little bit further there, Lynda. LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, this, and I know I've got some results from the survey we did. I find it interesting because, let's, the difference between a hybrid cloud and a heterogeneous environment is pretty much what's on this slide, and on this chart. Businesses have always maintained multiple, different IT environments. You know, they've always outsourced some services, had a little bit of, you know, maybe some co-lo here, maybe some managed services there, even long before cloud. What's different with hybrid cloud is that businesses expect to be able to have some level of common or centralized management across the various environments. They, you know, some 79% are saying it's important that their hybrid environment have a single pane of glass to manage. They expect their network to be integrated into the hybrid cloud, meaning that it needs to scale, bandwidth needs to scale, along with the applications. They want visibility across components to the extent possible that they actually want to be able to consider all the different infrastructure resources as a pool that they can draw on as needed. They want some of their security profiles to be carried across, identity and access management, compliance assurance. They want to be able to maintain disaster recovery, which will, I know we'll talk about further because that's a very important use case for hybrid cloud, but there's a lot of expectation, but understand that if these functions that are meaningful to the IT organization, it gives them a way to administer, to manage, to measure all their resources in some kind of common way. STAN GIBSON: Shane, how do you see organizations' expectations aligning with hybrid cloud deployments? SHANE ZIDE: Yeah, well what we see everyday, also, are in IT, they're getting rid of things they don't want to do on a daily basis, meaning that, when they were growing up, dreaming of being rock stars or Michael Jordan, not many of them thought about running a DR environment one day, so that's a use case that they can get rid of and then just focus on their own internal private cloud and not have DR be their problem in the future. You could think of voice, on-prem voice, when you open up a closet and hear a PBX box humming at you and you hug it and it doesn't hug you back, it punches you in the face. You know, hosted voice in cloud becomes very attractive, so we like to first start, at CDW, addressing with the customer and saying, "OK, what is it that you want to do internally and what is the activity and use cases that you just wish you could get off your plate?" And it's a good approach to take. STAN GIBSON: I'd like to discuss now, though, is maybe some use cases of hybrid cloud. Perhaps we could go on to some actual deployment stories, a little bit. LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, let me get, start with this. There's a number of different, what I call split workload-type applications, where it makes sense to have different pieces of the application in different places. And that's something that's becoming more and more common. We expect our, our applications and workloads to draw from code and sources and a multiple of different places in order to work better where, you know, no one's reinventing the wheel when they develop these things anymore, so it makes sense to have them work together. So one example that is fairly common is an eCommerce application. You can put your web-facing front end in a public cloud because it's scalable, it's the least expensive way, in most cases, to deploy code, so that sits there. You don't have to particularly worry about anything proprietary there, so you just leave that out in the public cloud, but that may map back to a customer database that's extremely proprietary. Maybe it's been sitting on your website. It might be sitting on a mainframe, been there forever, and there's no reason to put it in the cloud and maybe you don't want to because you want to make sure you've got maximum security for it. So you need, in a hybrid environment, you need for those two pieces to be able to talk to each other and to deliver the, you know, to complete the transaction that you need. So that's one example. I think if you go to the next one, you know what, Shane, why don't you talk about the backup and recovery because I know CDW does a lot of work in this area. SHANE ZIDE: Sure, yeah, we have some partners today that really address 3 areas. The first one would be endpoints, you know, backing up into one centralized area when it comes to getting the data off the endpoint and being able to index and research it from a compliance standpoint and recover files. The second one would be physical x86, virtualized servers. Again, people are looking to kill their Iron Mountain bill or offsite tape depository, so that's the second use case. The third one would be actually backing up their hyper-visor cloud deployments, either out of Azure or AWS. You know, everyone's got the same backup issues no matter where the asset lives, so this is one of the areas where we see a ton of ROI and it's very, backup is one of those areas too where it's very non-threatening to the infrastructure executive who's been dealing with this mess for all these years and so I find it to be, you know, a great place to start, and tons of use cases and ROI behind it. LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Oh, you know, I'll talk about the next application I often see, and this one's interesting. Cloud bursting. Back 10 years ago now when cloud first hit the public consciousness, there was great expectation among a lot of my enterprise clients that, "Great! During my busy season, when I just need a little extra capacity, instead of engineering my data center for peak capacity, I can instead, you know, allocate less capacity on-premises and I'll just burst into the cloud when I need it." Unfortunately, that's not as easy as it sounded and, again, 10 years ago, people who thought that they could do that with the cloud were disappointed. It turns out that it was a lot more difficult because you had to have the instances ready. You had to make sure that the two environments were common. It involved more of a hybrid mentality to make that work, but once you make it work, it's an excellent use case for cloud, for hybrid cloud. And I think we have one more application. Oh, again, you're not going to move all of your, nobody's going to forklift everything they have into the cloud. So what we see as a good and more common use case is that cloud deployment, cloud development is going on where legacy applications are sort of given a front-end face-lift. Maybe they're mobilized, they're given a mobile front-end that can be deployed in the cloud and reach back in as needed for some of the functionality or the data that might still be sitting on the premises, so what's a way to refresh maybe older applications without actually having to re-platform and completely re-engineer them for the cloud. You're still giving them a little bit more in the way of the agility, the speed for deployment, you know, the speed of updates that the cloud development can bring. So that's another use case that we often see. STAN GIBSON: Well that's a good use case. Any more use cases to add, Shane, possibly? SHANE ZIDE: I think cloud video would be a really great one. When you think about all the room, infrastructure systems that are out there to deploy today in the enterprises, they're great for talking to people within the four walls of the office, but when you have external users and you need to bring in, to that call, whether customers, suppliers, vendors, many different use cases, it's the integration that needs to take place there is a tough one. So adding in cloud video really gives you the universal interoperability bridge between all those solutions, so, you know, that's another one of those SaaS-based solutions that adds tons of value and helps people collaborate better and, you know, morale, raised revenue out of other, you know, KPIs involved there, but that's a great use case. STAN GIBSON: Certainly very interesting use cases and a lot of benefits from the hybrid cloud, but let's talk a little bit about the challenges to deploying hybrid cloud. We talked about those a little bit. It isn't quite as easy as it sometimes seems, so what about challenges? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, challenges come in a couple of different flavors. The biggest one tends to be technology because, again, unless the applications or, more likely, the platform that the applications are on are designed to work together, it's going to take more than just a network link connecting an on-premise server to a cloud server to create a hybrid cloud. It's, the challenge is such that it is going to involve, you know, unless you have the right combination of technologies, unless you've done all your research and made sure that everything works smoothly together, you're going to end up with a situation where you have to do a lot of custom coding to make all the scaling work together to make sure everything delivers the right types of data to your reporting and your management platform. In real life, businesses, the biggest challenge that I see among enterprises is they struggle to migrate applications off the premises into the cloud. It is, you know, very common for businesses to adopt a cloud-first approach for the next application. They're comfortable doing that. They know how to develop and deploy a cloud app. What they struggle with are the things that are sitting back in the data center, whether they're virtualized or on a physical server, and, just, forklifting it, getting it, manipulating it and getting it into the cloud, that's a challenge. Even selecting which applications are best to move into the cloud is a big challenge, and business continuity, disaster recovery. We talked about that a little bit that hybrid's a great use case for it, but businesses struggle to ensure that their environment is, their backup and recovery environment is strong enough, it's crisp enough, it works. The recovery point objectives and the recovery time objectives across all the different environments will work together and will meet their needs. Those are big struggles. Now, complementary to that is, we're in an environment where the people running our data centers, by and large, did not grow up with the cloud. It's a new enough phenomenon that we have a dearth of cloud expertise in enterprises. They're just aren't enough people and I'm constantly asked, "Where can I find them? Where can I hire them?" And, of course, technology is changing so quickly, that even if you hire someone, when you have to keep training them and make sure that they're on top of everything, it's a struggle, and businesses need to change their, maybe, their organizational structure in the IT department. They need to make sure they're processes reflect this new approach for self-servicing. They need to have a better partnership with the lines of business. It's not easy and it's, you know, from where I'm sitting, it's almost impossible for business to do it on their own while they're trying to keep the lights on and keep maintaining everything that's already going on in the data center. No business has enough time to do everything they're doing today, field all these new requests and reorganize at the same time. It is a big struggle. STAN GIBSON: Shane, how do you see the challenges to deploying hybrid cloud? SHANE ZIDE: The first one is trust. You have people who have been putting their pants on the same way for 20 years and, all of a sudden, you say, "Put those pants on and zip them up from behind." In regards to, you don't see those flashing lights anymore in the data center and it's not a problem. You can drive to the co-lo facility or walk down the hall to the server room to be able to fix if there's an application that's hung up or if you have a (inaudible) application and integration that needs to be placed between what's in the cloud and what's on-prem. We had a situation a few weeks ago where a, one of the largest energy providers in the country visited our CDW Distribution Center, which is where we host all of our Executive Briefings, and when our own director of IT Operations came in the room and one of them kind of, the customer kind of gleefully said to our director of IT, "Tell me what you're building now these days," almost assuming that you would hear, you know, whether it's a V-Block or hyperconverged. When our own director of IT at CDW said, "Any net-new applications are built on the cloud." The jaws hit the ground from our customers, and what our, and they were, well, they were like, "Well, you can kind of 'Willy Wonka' yourself and skip down the hall here and pull the world's greatest hardware off the shelf at cost and be able to use that. Why wouldn't you use the hardware?" He said, "Well, I want something that's scalable and I don't have to have the headaches of taking legacy applications to the cloud." So it's an interesting story about why it's best to be able to look at the cloud for net-new apps and then work with a third-party on the hardware legacy apps out there. STAN GIBSON: Great, great. Well, you know, looking at those challenges, can an expert third-party really help? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Well, from where I'm sitting, it's not only a good idea, but it's necessary for businesses to turn to a third-party expert. You know, there's just too much at stake and the timeframes are too quick for business that wants to maintain a competitive advantage using technology. The timeframes are too quick to wait, see how it goes, you know, develop the expertise on staff. One of the things that we found and I thought was very interesting is that some 91 percent of all enterprises say that they have or plan to use a third-party expert to help implement their hybrid cloud strategy. Some will use it a lot, the third-party a lot. Some will use it, you know, just to help out, maybe just set up the plan. I find that fascinating simply because there are very few other self-service products in the world, considering that the cloud is supposed to be self-service, that, you know, 91 percent of users need external help to use it, but this is where we are. If they want that fast return, they're going to need to turn to somebody who really knows what's going on. STAN GIBSON: Shane, what's your take? SHANE ZIDE: No, I mean, I think getting real honest, agnostic advice, the good, the bad and the ugly, when it comes to cloud providers is important. Advice that we give in our portfolio at CDW. I think, right now, the two certainties in the world is that there's not a hardware rep out there today that can tell the customer, honestly, that every workload and application is perfect for on-prem hardware. And on the flip-side, there's not an AWS or Azure or service provider rep that can say every workload or application is perfect for the public cloud. That's why I think working with a third-party to really get that, you know, that pure, basic, agnostic advice is very important. We call it the "cloud u-turn." There's a fail rate that's pretty high in the public cloud, where someone who did not go through the iterative process of figuring out what workload or application is appropriate and how that should be built in the cloud, and how it should be migrated, all those key indicators of what's going to be a success and what's not, so that's why I think it's beneficial to have someone outside of just the vendors who can sell you the service. STAN GIBSON: Sounds like good advice. Well we're now going to go our second poll question of this webcast and the question has to do with using a third-party. And the question is, "Where do you stand with regard to working with a third-party to assist in hybrid cloud deployment?" And your choices are, "We are considering calling on a third-party," "We are currently working with a third-party," or, finally, "We don't need the services of a third-party," and once again, please make the selection that most accurately describes your own situation and then hit that "Submit" button, and we'll look at the results in just a few seconds. Well, while we're waiting for the audience to vote, I would say that most people are probably going to be considering a third-party, wouldn't you say? Lynda? Shane? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, I would hope so. Sometimes businesses are concerned that they won't see a return on investment or are concerned about how to ask for third-party help, and, you know, very often I'm in a position where I do talk to enterprise CTOs and help them build a business plan to show that it makes sense. So, I would hope that our audience is considering. STAN GIBSON: Well we would like to think that. I think probably our audience is probably finished voting, so let's take a look and see how they voted. All right. Well, indeed, most people say they are considering calling on a third-party, as we were discussing, that's probably a wise choice. Some people, 12.5 percent, say they don't think they need the services of a third-party at all, and any thoughts about those results, Shane? SHANE ZIDE: No, I mean, it's, today at CDW, we're a $14 billion company and now cloud represents 10 percent of the overall revenue, which is public information, so for us, we're seeing customers use us in the same way they use us for on-prem hardware and software for the last 20 years and that's what we really built out for our practice, so definitely a big supporter of the third-party help for our customers. STAN GIBSON: All right. Well before we continue on with our discussion, I'd just like to remind members of our audience to please send your questions to Lynda and Shane. You can do so by typing them into the Q&A box on your screen and then hitting the "Submit" button and we'll do our best to answer it if we possibly can during the Q&A session, which is coming up pretty soon. Shane, I'd like to ask you, how does CDW approach hybrid cloud deployments? SHANE ZIDE: Sure. And I'll try to make this less of a commercial for CDW and more, kind of, peer-based for the audience, but the way we really describe it first is, capturing the image of what someone's done in their past and present, how the applications are built, data center locations, co-lo installments, how virtualized are they, what type of hardware are they using, and at that point we can lay it across. We have a trademarked process called "Cloud Rocket," where we lay that application and workload down and then figure out, does it make sense for a mix of private-public for that application. ERP performs like a dog in some cases in the public cloud, so would you want to keep ERP onsite with having the different SaaS space use cases. Would those play better in the public cloud vs. doing that traditional on-prem for that (inaudible) as a service model. You know, at CDW, when we first came out with a cloud practice, it was kind of an interesting jolt to the industry because most people know us from being an IT hardware fulfillment shop, so, you know, we're not going to build out massive, multi-million dollar server farms out there. We were going to address the three most important areas that we felt there were gaps in the industry, which was around strategy, what workloads and applications are appropriate to procurement, having an easier process to contract cloud and then, finally, services around migrating and integrating workloads from on-prem to off and that is our business today for customers. Moving on here. So, in our Infrastructure as a Service offering, we look down, once we figure out that workload and application, what's the appropriate angle, it's really looking at the compute side of it. Does it make sense for you to have it moving to a co-lo facility, have a direct connection into a hyperscaler cloud, which then takes that hyperscaler deployment, making it a note on your own private network, so think of it almost as Dropbox or a workload or application that you can readily test out and QA it behind the scenes and then move it over to a hyperscaler cloud when it's ready for production or vice-versa from the storage, right? So we have customers that still buy massive amounts of spinning disk and flash, more flash these days, and they can co-lo that within our facilities and then cross-connect that into your provider of choice that's out there. And the most important thing that's ever forgotten is the network. Most important being beyond MPLS these days to software-defined networking, so I always tell people that you're fail rate will be much higher if you don't have, kind of, an iron-clad network strategy when it comes to the cloud. And then our SaaS offerings are just probably our biggest, blooming area. We're one of the largest providers of Office 365 and Google Apps, as well. These support core, important functions of the business, but I just don't want to manage that anymore. Security is a very fascinating thing. We have customers who think that putting infrastructure in the cloud isn't secure or safe, but then we'll turn it around and say, "Hey, tell me about your cloud security," which I find ironic. So we have every single top security provider that's out there. It's very, very important that once you authenticate into various different either Software or Infrastructure as a Service platforms that user behavior and malware and security threats are monitored across all your Software as a Service solutions, which is a space called CASB. So these are just some of the offerings we have, so any customer can come to us and say, "Give me your best Storage/Backup/DR as a Service providers," and we can give you agnostic advice across the 4 or 5 that are relevant to Frost & Sullivan or Gartner or Forrester and give you the good, the bad and the ugly about those providers. And then the 6 pillars of CDW's cloud, right? So, it's end-to-end services. We can also manage virtual assets in the cloud, whether from basic OS to patching and monitoring, offering our customers the best-of-breed providers. I hear most of our customers say, "Hey, you know, I'm glad I didn't have to go on 50 dates with all of these cloud providers and I could just go on 4 and you could help facilitate all those interactions in those areas." Sales teams, instead of you having to meet with all of those people in your conference room, we can give you their pricing and we can help you consolidate that process around buying cloud, which is a big problem these days. And then, finally, a Cloud Client Executive. This is something that is very new in the industry, which we started, which is having that agnostic voice for the customer, so if you're a CDW customer on this call here, you have access to a Cloud Client Executive or, if you'd like to become a customer of CDW, we hired, kind of a Seal Team Six strike team that has years of experience before cloud was probably called cloud and come in and really talk to the breadth of what that business is trying to achieve. A lot of times those will turn into paid, consulting engagements, something we call, "Cloud Planning Services," but most of the time, it's free, so it's us, literally, on white boards across America, sitting there and trying to show areas where our customers can start with cloud, so it's not so cloudy. And, there you go! STAN GIBSON: Yeah, just wondering, how should members of our audience proceed if they would like to explore this further? SHANE ZIDE: Yeah, so if any CDW customer on here has an assigned account manager that's trying to do the best for you guys every day, call him or her up and say, "I'd like a meeting with a Cloud Client Executive, or CCE, and they'll quickly be able to set up a quick 30-minute phone call or a face-to-face scheduled in market, and we look forward to helping you guys out in this area. STAN GIBSON: All right, Shane. Well, it is time now for the Q&A segment of our webcast. We've got a number of interesting questions in the queue, so let's dive into those right now. We talked a little bit about how challenging it might be sometimes to manage a hybrid cloud, so the question is, "What kind of expertise do I need to manage a hybrid cloud?" A toss up for that. Perhaps, Lynda, you could go first. LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, I'll give that a shot. What you'll need to do in your organization is determine how you're going to utilize your hybrid cloud. You could develop expertise in each of the separate environments that you're going to be managing. That's the way that's not very efficient. Or you can work with an expert, with a provider to come up with the technology that will give you the broadest view across all your different environments and then you can focus your internal team on developing expertise in customer service, in working with your line of business colleagues, understanding what the business needs are, so instead of putting all your effort into the various infrastructure environments, rely on technology, rely on external partners for that, and instead focus on the business. It's a tall order, but it's the one that will have the, probably the best payoff for your business. STAN GIBSON: Any thoughts on that, Shane? SHANE ZIDE: Yeah, you know, what we're seeing with most of our customers with hybrid deployments is there's a technical leader and there's a, what we call, a partner leader, that the technical side is the one who is really going to run day-to-day. When you really think about it, before cloud, the marketers went crazy with the word, service providers were offering this years ago and they called it virtual co-location, so the idea there was that anything you can do behind your firewall, you could do on the UI from the provider, whether it's add ports on firewalls, you could add capacity to your VMs. On the partner side, it is having someone to manage all the partners, the SLAs, the expectations and the guarantees that those cloud providers had guaranteed you in the contracts, so I think those are two key areas for rolling out hybrid cloud. STAN GIBSON: All right. Well, our next question is straight out of the current industry news, and the question is, "How do you think Dell's purchase of EMC and VMware will affect the cloud landscape?" LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Big news out there, obviously! I think it is a, it's probably an indication or support for what we've been talking about here, that the cloud is not separate from the IT infrastructure within an enterprise. They all need to work together. Dell, EMC and, to a lesser extent, VMware have all, you know, they're all very well entrenched on the enterprise, in the enterprise data center, and in pooling their resources, you know, the hope, the expectation is that they can, they can help build the cloud market and enable each of those very solid technology providers to better participate and better develop what is, you know, where this cloud is going to unfold. STAN GIBSON: Shane, what do you think? SHANE ZIDE: I mean, for us, that acquisition or merger was very important because, think about it, it screams hybrid cloud. You know, it says to the industry that those who, you know, make on-prem workloads and hardware for their sole focus that, if the customer considers it one conversation and you're splitting it into two, then, and the customer wants that sole, you know, have a little bit of apps here over in the cloud and a little bit of apps here for on-prem, that, you know, these large, behemoth technology organizations have to think about how they can, what their go-to-market is going to be. It's kind of like, you know, how do you take your coffee? Now it's how do you take your cloud? You've got to have a partner that can deliver both options in the one strategy. STAN GIBSON: Ok. Our next question's going to go right back to you, Shane, and the question is, "My company is having problems migrating applications to the cloud. Can CDW help?" SHANE ZIDE: Absolutely! You know, the cool part is just how we've been road-testing hardware for so many years from the who's who, we do the same things with the cloud. We have an innovation lab that allows us to see what types of applications will be trickier to port over. What are the clouds that allow you to flash (inaudible) files? Which ones are harder to move, apps and workloads from Amazon Web Services, so we've pretty much seen it all. That's free information that we can give our customers that might be a value instead of experiencing the pain from it, so that would be another one to talk to your account manager about and we would bring our team in and hopefully, you know, make things less cloudy. STAN GIBSON: All right. Next question. "Are there security or compliance issues with hybrid cloud?" Lynda? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: I think Shane actually alluded to this earlier. There are security and compliance issues with absolutely any IT installment that has a connection into the Internet. Are they greater than what you can build on your own, on your own premises? Not necessarily. Security and compliance are very important, and they're very important, I'm sure, to everybody on this call. They need to be managed, but there is no inherent, you know, unresolvable security issue associated with, even, public cloud or hosted private cloud that can't be mitigated with some planning. Again, if you're looking for common security profile across all your environments, there are ways that you can apply that both with appliances on-premises. You can have software-defined appliances. Make sure you understand what the security, the physical security is associated with any of your cloud providers, your partners, so there's a lot of work that has to be done there, but, you know, I guess the key point is, don't assume that a cloud environment is unsecure. Don't assume that your on-premises environment is inherently secure. SHANE ZIDE: Yeah, Lynda brings up a great point there. Ironically, all the big security breaches that you read about in the paper, most of the time, like 80% of the time to 90, aren't coming from public cloud breaches. You know, Home Depot, Target, JPMorgan and all these other ones, these weren't people who broke into Microsoft Azure or AWS, you know, they're employing $400,000-a-year engineers, which by the way is a good trade if you're dreaming about something when you get older. It's good to be a security engineer these days. But, you know, they're employing the best-of-breed hardware, so I'm not saying that that's going to guarantee that it's more secure than your own private network and how you fortified it, but I think, you know, sometimes, we always want a greater expectation of something that, you know, we can give ourselves, but I can get you any compliance cert in the world these days out there, but you have to have other third-party services that are performing tests against those environments so you can have a kind of independent health check for your security stance in hybrid cloud. STAN GIBSON: Next question. "What role do you see OpenStack playing and should we insist on compliance with OpenStack's standards?" What about OpenStack, Lynda? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: I believe OpenStack is a good thing. I'm just in favor of open standards. I guess it's important to remember that OpenStack is not a substitute or it's not the, it doesn't inherently create the kind of seamless hybrid environment that we might like. OpenStack is, we're in early days with OpenStack, and their, most of the providers, leading providers do not have, or are not built on open platforms. If you're using Amazon Web Services, which you probably should be for some workloads, that's not, that's built on a proprietary platform. VMware is built on a proprietary platform. Now most of the providers have built APIs that allow you to connect open source-based or OpenStack-based applications and other environments, but again, what we're talking about here, it's not like it's a set of LEGO bricks that you can just assume everything is going to automatically be connected. There needs to be some planning. There needs to be, there may need to be some customization, even an OpenStack-based platform on-premises. That doesn't necessarily mean you can bump into any other OpenStack deployed applications because not all distributions of OpenStack are the same. So, yes it's good to have commonalities and I believe the industry is moving toward greater usage of OpenStack and Cloud Foundry in the past world and other open source platforms, and that's a good thing, but again, it's, you know, the devil's always in the details and it just isn't all that, it's not a panacea for, you know, everybody playing nicely together in a hybrid world. STAN GIBSON: Shane, what's your take on OpenStack? SHANE ZIDE: We see it more in private cloud deployments. We have a couple of large banks, for example, that use OpenStack for their own private cloud, so they have that quick service provider-like feel of deploying workloads and applications and services internally. And then we have those same customers do DR as a Service, for example, for disaster recovery outside of public cloud, so yeah, I mean, as Lynda said, it's very rarely used by any service provider or hyperscaler-type cloud that's out there. We fully recommend it internally in some cases for customers if that's all you want is private cloud, the next generation of spin-up, spin-down in that private cloud world. STAN GIBSON: OK. Let's talk about another technology question, flash memory. "What do you see is the role of flash memory technologies in both public and private clouds?" LYNDA STADTMUELLER: We're seeing a lot more flash. I think flash is great technology. The price point is coming down and we're seeing the movement from, certainly, from hard disk to more usage of, not just solid state, but full, all-flash arrays, which provides a maximum performance with the lowest latency. Great stuff! You know, in a cloud, you don't really have control or you don't have as much control of the actual hardware that your workload or storage is running on. You may have, you may be able to see that the machine or select a machine that has a solid state drive, but you probably aren't going to get the latest all-flash array, which goes back to the point of hybrid. If you need it, then maybe you're better option is either keep some of that storage on-premises or use a co-lo facility, somewhere where you have more control over the actual hardware supporting your application. It depends on what you need, what you're willing to pay for, what your application requires in terms of performance. STAN GIBSON: How do you see flash, Shane? SHANE ZIDE: Well said. We see flash more in regards to the private cloud world where customers adopt flash arrays or spinning disks. What's even scarier for the hardware companies out there is there's a great article I found last week on LinkedIn where most of the large cloud providers that are out there aren't buying hardware anymore from Cisco, HP or EMC. They're actually making their own and they're adopting a flash in some of their own, you know, future kind of alpha-beta type platforms where it becomes more commodity, churn and burn hardware. You pull it out and pop a new device in and, but you know, flash is important for memory in regards to, most applications chew up memory like there's no tomorrow, so having something that's you know, cheaper, lighter and faster can only help the performance on those applications. STAN GIBSON: We have time for one more question, so let's go that right away. "In making the case of hybrid cloud to upper management, is there any typical amount of savings or payback that we should expect?" Lynda? LYNDA STADTMUELLER: Yeah, you know, it's funny about costs associated with cloud. When, cost is always important. Reducing costs always shows up on, you know, as one of the very top criteria for, or the driver, for adopting cloud. The cost reduction is a very tactical thing, you know. On a workload-by-workload basis, you can easily come up with numbers that say that compared with purchasing and doing capital investment in hardware and deploying it on-premises, it's less expensive to put a specific workload in the cloud. That said, when you're doing it right, for a business that's actually planning, thinking through, planning and implementing a hybrid cloud strategy, cost reduction will probably occur, but it's the wrong way to go about it, is to look at, to look at bottom line costs, and the reason is that the value to your business, the real value is going to be measured in your ability to move the business toward its, attaining its goals, business goals. Business goals like agility, speed to market. There are competitive factors that can be quantified, and I've actually worked with a number of enterprises to build a very comprehensive business plan that calculates out not just TCO of the IT purview, but how many more transactions can your data analysts run per hour if they're using a certain type of deployment. How much more revenue might you bring in if your web-facing eCommerce site isn't constrained by scalability? So there's so much more that goes into it, and I don't mean to overstate this, but workload-by-workload, how much out-of-pocket is probably not the best measure and the challenge to an enterprise or an IT Director that's making the purchase decision is, they're going to need an environment that is so flexible that no matter where technology goes, no matter where the business environment goes, they need to be able to respond quickly and cost-effectively and that's nothing that you can measure by saying, "We're going to save 10%." Shane, how do you address that issue with customers? SHANE ZIDE: I was just doing a little cloud cartwheel around the room here because it's the hardest thing that we have in the business, where a customer puts down the BOM for the hardware solution, the CapEx, and says, "Why, when I add up all these months of the OpEx for the cloud solution, is it more than the on-premise solution?" And I say, "Well, did you add in the 11 factors in a private cloud world that aren't listed out on the CapEx BOM?" So, just as you said, if you're just coming at it from an ROI/financial perspective, that's not going to ever tell the complete story. If your boss walks into your office and says, "Oh by the way, I hear our competitors have an application that can raise revenue by 25% and cut the cost by 10%" then yo have to be able to respond to that request of the business and we have so many use cases where IT doesn't want to be seen as the cost center anymore and they're using that rapid deployment and agility with the cloud to increase their own brand of how they deliver the business, so you've got it right on that one. STAN GIBSON: Well, great information. Thanks Shane and thanks very much, Lynda! Well that is all the time we have on this live, interactive webcast. Sincere thanks to our experts, Lynda Stadtmueller, Vice President for Cloud Services at Frost & Sullivan, and Shane Zide, Principal of Cloud Client Services at CDW, for helping us understand the hybrid cloud paradigm and how to go about implementing a hybrid cloud architecture. For more information on this topic, please click on the green resources icon on your screen, and thanks for joining us. For CDW and IDG, I'm Stan Gibson. 