 [MUSIC] Your vehicle may be equipped with a feature that can help improve your driving experience when faced with changing climate or surface conditions. Let me explain. Selectable driving modes instantly modify the electronic stability control system and traction control based on the type of terrain you encounter. They balance throttle response, transmission shift points, as well as steering effort and feel. Easily controlled with either a dial or a button on the center console. And simple icons in the cluster help you choose from seven modes of operation. The mode you select will illuminate in the information display. Selectable drive nodes on 4x4 models include Normal, Grass/Gravel/Snow, Sand, and Mud/Ruts, as well as Tow Haul, Sport, and ECO. Normal is for ordinary road conditions, which is the default mode and gives you an engaging driver experience with a comfortable controlled ride and confident handling. Grass/Gravel/Snow engages 4x4 auto and lowers throttle response and adjusts shift points, which gives you confident handling and a direct connection to the road while traveling on packed snow, or over water, grass, and gravel. Sand electronically locks the 4x4 system to provide off-road traction on soft sand or deep gravel. It also holds gears longer to optimize shift point and engine torque. Mud/Ruts, locks the 4-wheel drive system to provide off-road traction on muddy, rudded, or uneven terrain. It also boosts torque and allows wheel spin to help maintain forward momentum. Tow Haul reduces the amount of uplifts and downshifts when hauling a trailer in stop-and-go traffic, through rolling hills, or when climbing a medium grade. Sport is for aggressive on-road driving. When selected 4x4 auto is engaged for better on-road traction and a sportier driving experience by holding the gear a little longer, increasing throttle response and crisper shifts. And finally, ECO monitors driving characteristics such as gear shifts and speed, then adjusts the engine and transmission performance to help maximize fuel efficiency. If you own a 4x2 model, you still have Normal, Tow Haul, Sport, and ECO. But Grass/Gravel/Snow is replaced with Snow/Wet, which is similar to its 4x4 cousin in that it controls throttle response to reduce over acceleration. Plus, regulates shift points for confident handling while traveling on packed snow and ice. Keep in mind, the system has diagnostic checks that continuously monitor the components to ensure proper operation. Any questions? Go to Owner.Ford.com. 