 Thanks so much. Very excited to be here. So let me start by asking how many of you grew up in suburbia. Not a surprise. Most of our country is suburbia it's been developed that way. This is where I grew up. This is 2076 Queen Cannon in Houston Texas. We moved there when I emigrated from Argentina. Yes from Houston in the crowd. And from a very young age, when I was first living here and lived in a couple of different areas around the country in suburbia. I realized very early that suburbia is really a product of the automobile. This revolution that we call the automobile right. Cars came to this country and all of a sudden we could be far away from where we worked. We could go out and have larger yards. We could find cheaper land and there was all this fantastic stuff that happened because of the car and suburbia. There was also a bunch of stuff that wasn't so great. A lot of social isolation came with that huge environmental issues everything from we consumed a lot of land. We destroyed a lot of habitat. We continue to do that and we became dependent on this thing the car and burnt a whole lot of fuel. And then we also started to create fiscal problems within our cities which we still have today. All right. So many of our cities are actually hurting a whole lot because of all the infrastructure you need to support because of this thing called the car and this thing that we call suburbia. And it led to a lot of urban decay that we're just getting over right now. Imagine imagine if we had been able to have a little bit of foresight of what was going to happen when we unleashed this thing early in the 20th century. If we knew a little bit of what might have happened we might have made different decisions and we might have prepared ourselves a little bit better. Well we're about to hit another one of those revolutions and that is the autonomous vehicle – the self driving car. This is a new revolution, and it is arriving right now. And while there's been a tremendous amount of research on the technical aspects of this on sensors on data on how we deal with the safety of this there's been next to nothing of what we've been looking at recently which is - what are the secondary impacts of this technology on cities. I'm an urban designer a planner and architect. How are these things going to affect our cities all around us. About two years ago we started looking at these topics and at first we were very excited that we didn't see a lot of what was going kind of research around this. It quickly became oh my goodness why aren't we all looking at this we need to understand what's happening. And one of the themes I want to really convey today is that we have a tremendous opportunity to have agency in shaping the impacts of this technology. This is not something that just has to happen to us. We can help shape those things. So how many of you are just tremendously excited to get into an autonomous vehicle, self driving car. Right. There's some of us out there right. We can nap while we're going one place or another. We'll be able to watch a movie hang out with the kids. Honestly we're probably all going to be on our phones. But right. That's all that's going to happen. How many of you are absolutely terrified of getting into an autonomous vehicle. All right. Maybe you've seen the crash that happened with a Tesla or Uber right. Both fatalities. Still things getting worked out. Absolutely with a lot of the safety and the technology I'm actually a little bit in both of these camps. I'd say a lot in both these camps. I see tremendous opportunities with these new technologies and I also see tremendous risks and not just the safety risk which my sense is we're going to work these things out. But these risk of these secondary impacts and it's going to change our cities. It's going to change the value of land. It's going to change our land use change how we move around it's going to change where we live. There's all these different pieces is going to have huge equity impacts. And so those are the things that I want to talk to you about tonight. Question yet as I start as they give talked about the townspeople. When is this happening. Is this real this is really going to happen is this today or is this still science fiction. And this is a great chart that looks at the the adoption of new technologies across the country. So on the bottom axis time 9800 to 2005 and on the vertical axis is the percent of U.S. households that have adopted this technology. And what you see from here is that as we get closer and closer to the day the lines get steeper and steeper when we are we are exposed to new technologies when they become available. We take them on much much faster. It took about a hundred years to get to 95 percent adoption of the telephone. It took about 10 years to get that rate with a cell phone. All right. So the moral of the story here is when the technology's available we bring it on very very quickly. Right. So where are we in terms of this new technology arriving. This ancient history time of August of 2016. First time in the country that you could get into an autonomous vehicle and take a ride. So this is in Pittsburgh Uber all of a sudden had autonomous vehicles. Level 3 automation it's called. So this is cars where there's someone behind the wheel. They're not touching it unless the thing beeps and there's a problem. They take over. Right. So this is this was August. October two months later. First autonomous freight delivery, beer, in Colorado. This truck took from the factory to distribution center without anyone touching the wheel. I don't know if you can see that there's someone sitting in the back seat of that truck right. Freight's going to be a huge one for autonomous vehicles. In June of 2017 last summer 10 of the top 11 car manufacturers in the world said that they would have autonomous vehicles to market by 2021. Three years from now. At the time I thought that's a lot of hubris. There's going to be some of them that make it but that's a lot of hubris. In November of that year, Waymo which is Google's autonomous vehicle company announced that they would start launching Level 4 automation, level 4 automation is there is no one in the front seat. Cars that are moving around with no one the front seat in the Phoenix area. That was in November. In January of this year. GM went for federal permit to create cars that not only didn't have anyone in the front seat but had no steering wheel and no pedals. Yeah, that was that was in January. That same month Waymo bought 20,000 cars, vans that they're going to be using to sell rides like Uber Lyft type things all over the country. In May were in June right now right in May. This is how quickly this stuff happens. Waymo announced that by the end of this year they will have a service in Phoenix that is level for automation like an Uber and Lyft that you can pick up so any of us by the end of this year we'll be able to go to Phoenix Puncheon and our phone and get into a car that has nobody in the front seat. This morning literally this morning it was announced that Waymo just bought 62,000 additional vans. Yeah this stuff happens fast. As someone who is immersed in it, I'm completely continually surprised at how fast these things are going. So the technology is coming and when it gets here we will adopt it. So what's the impact going to be. What's that going to mean for our cities. And I'll tell you it's going to change everything. So how many of you have one of these. Yes. More or less all of us right. And what is your car doing right now. Parked right. Yeah because your car is parked 95 percent of the time. Right. So the real statistic is five percent of the time we use our car most of the time our cars out being parked and guess what. You're not alone. There are between 1 and 2 billion parking spots in this country. That is between four and eight spots for each car in the country. And if you work in the fields that I work in an urban design and planning and architecture maybe you've heard the phrase form follows function form follows parking. Parking defines our cities how they're organized how we how we develop the price of land everything. It is a huge piece of how cities work. But all that is about to change. The car that let's say it were you know a year from now and the car that just dropped me off, this automonous vehicle that just dropped me off and I just got out of it now went to go pick up somebody else. Maybe I own it and it just went to go pick up my daughter and take her to soccer. All right. So all of a sudden the thing that we would usually have right here next to us is can we no longer need to have parking for it. And that changes everything. That absolutely changes everything. So huge opportunities on the one side we no longer need or we have a ton of room to be developing all the parking lots it exists in the country largest single land use by surface area in most every city in the United States is all of a sudden up for grabs. So we can start building on those spaces densification fantastic. We no longer have to carry parking as part of our development projects feasibility of project goes through the roof. Huge opportunities with all this not only in urban areas but also in suburban areas. Right. So the suburban office park, gone. We no longer need all those seas of parking. And why wouldn't we put the office park into the suburban strip mall that no longer needs a parking so we can actually have some amenities around these things. You get the feeling the whole city is going to transform. Huge opportunities for affordable housing. All of a sudden we don't have to carry parking. I can put more units on that parcel and make it much easier to develop huge opportunities for housing here. But there's also a whole lot of land, as they mentioned, that's going to be changing hands or are open for development. In downtown Portland not so bad. We've done a pretty good job. We don't have parking minimums here right now and we don't have that much parking. So we're not we're not going to see that much impact. What happens when we go out to Gresham. Gresham has a lot of parking right. So most suburbs have a tremendous amount of parking in them and all of a sudden that land is going to be open for redevelopment. Now Portland, Gresham, we have a lot of development pressure in these areas right. There's a whole lot of you know great more land, more density, great we can do that. What happens in Cleveland. Yeah that's a whole lot of parking a whole lot of land development available for redevelopment in an already soft market. So what this means is that all of a sudden we've got more land supply and the same amount of demand. If anyone studied economics and supply and demand that means prices will drop. So across the city prices will drop all this land becomes available. We're doubling,tripling, quadrupling the amount of available land for development. All these things will drop and this will have cascading impact. On the one hand all of us who own property. That's the problem. And for all of us and for our cities our property taxes are going to be reduced. We're talking about autonomous vehicles. Property taxes are going to reduced. Let me just talk quickly about our commutes. The average commute in this country is 25 minutes. With autonomous vehicles things change a little bit. This is an image from the 1950s when they thought autonomous vehicles were about to arrive. So with the autonomous vehicles all of a sudden in twenty five minutes I can go further. Those things are way more efficient than I am. They can go faster and on freeways I can go much much further. So already I can live a little further out. Oh and by the way I don't need to spend 25 minutes doing this with my hands on the wheel looking at the road. I could be sleeping, eating, doing exercise. All sorts of things. So maybe I'm willing to take a 35 minute commute or a 45 minute commute. What does that mean. Tremendous pressure on sprawl. Tremendous pressure right. So in all my life all I ever really wanted to do was live in the woods or what I really want is a much larger yard and cheap housing. I can go do that now. I can go further and further out. Well what does that mean. Well we have to build all that infrastructure and we need to maintain all that infrastructure that has tremendous costs that are already hurting right now with the amount of infrastructure they're building. Environmental issues all over the place. More land consumption more destruction of habitat. Services. All of the services are much more expensive to deliver and low density development in suburban areas. And then finally all that land I told you it became available because of the parking of a sudden now that we just you know doubled or tripled that amount of land with the developable land that's on the edges of cities right. So again huge impact on property values. The moral here is AVs are not a transportation issue. Right now the discussion about autonomous vehicles and we've been in a whole lot of these all over the country are mostly dominated by the question of transportation and what we want to really talk about here as well it's a really broad topic. This is going to be affecting all parts of our lives and we need to be able. We need to think about this in this broad part this broad way. The reason is one because it's true some of the things I should use now and two because we need to be able to build the political will to prepare ourselves for these changes to support our cities to support our communities to make sure that we're ready for these and we don't get pun slightly intended run over right by this new technology. So we need to not think of this as a tech issue. We need to think about as an impact in cities issue. Think for a minute in all the companies that are working on autonomous vehicles right now how many of the how many engineers do you think exist there. Thousands. Probably tens of thousands. How many people do we have working on what the impacts are going to be in cities. Very few. I think Portland's one of the more progressive places in terms of thinking about this we are extremely forward thinking in many of the things. I could count on one or two hands the number of people whose full time job is to think about these impacts of cities. We need to change that. So cities that think ahead are going to be staying ahead. And we need to be those cities. We need to be we need to have foresight. We need to be aware of what these things are and we need to claim our own agency in shaping the autonomous future that's coming towards us. Thank you. 