 There are about 40,000 people killed in car crashes in the U.S. every year. That's an average of a 102 deaths every day. We have two jumbo jets crashing every week. Basically, that's how many lives we lose every week in the U.S. 100 of people a day. That is horrible and we got to change that. Regulators and car makers have tried to tackle this issue by adding seatbelts and airbags to cars. But around the world, there are countless people who are working to solve the problem with a different approach, by removing drivers altogether. The number one reason I started working on this technology originally is because driving is just profoundly dangerous. I don't think very many people appreciate how unsafe it is to drive a car. Jessie Levinson has been working on self-driving car tech for 13 years. In 2014, he co-founded Zoox's and set out to build a new type of vehicle from the ground up. I think we can do a lot better. The primary way is by using autonomous technology to avoid accidents, 94% of which are caused by pretty obvious human mistakes and human errors. The other thing is we can use this opportunity to create a safer fundamental vehicle architecture. So that even if somebody else runs into us, the people inside our vehicle or as safe as possible. Zooks plans on building an autonomous ride-sharing service, that will operate in cities. You should look at autonomous as two different areas. One is autonomy as a feature and there's autonomy is a service, which is taking a passenger safely from point A to point B. And there are the companies, like Zoox's, that are being built from the ground up to be these autonomous mobility companies. But Zoox's faces big competition. It is widely believed that the two leading developers of self-driving vehicles are Waymo and GM Cruise. Because they have so many miles under their belt, Waymo and Cruise are believed to be ahead of everyone else in terms of how quickly we might see these vehicles, these self-driving vehicles out on the road. That doesn't mean that they have the market locked up. Compared to all of the different players in the space Zook's, is an outlier. In addition to developing the autonomous tech, it is also building the vehicle from scratch. We can create an amazing product experience and also a vehicle that has much higher safety redundancy and robustness, then you can do by retrofitting a car. And then our goal is to provide that as a service. So you would use it like you use Uber and Lyft but instead of getting in the backseat of a stranger's Prius, you're getting in a beautiful robot that's comfortable and safe and tailor-made for this application. There are going to be carriage seating. That means people gonna look at you; very social. The other thing we've talked about is it's gonna be bi-directional; can go in two different directions. Which means no more three-point turns. Put that in a city, it's gonna be much safer moving around. There's all kinds of things we get to do when we remove the driver and the steering wheel. That's what could kill you in a crash. Now we have a chance to totally reconfigure what that internal airbag system is going to look like and make it safer than anything that's on the road today. The company showed us prototypes of its carriage vehicle. Which is primarily for testing purposes on closed tracks. But Zoox's has not yet revealed what its taxis will actually look like. In the meantime, the company is testing its software out on the streets of San Francisco with a fleet of Toyota's outfitted with sensors and computers. But some experts are skeptical that testing on public roads will lead us to safer autonomous vehicles. Michel de court thinks that testing these dangerous situations and simulations could be a better and more efficient way to make these vehicles safe enough for the road. He also said that clearer regulation is needed and compared the autonomous car industry to the early days of aviation. But getting the public to trust a vehicle without the driver behind the wheel, is probably the biggest hurdle that Zoox's and the others face. Earlier this year, a self-driving Uber killed a pedestrian in Arizona raising concerns about the risks of the technology. The safety concerns that are out there, will limit how quickly those building robo-taxis actually roll out their fleets. You will see them initially in geo-fenced areas and then they'll slowly spread out from there. There will be a lot of consumer resistance. The notion of handing over control to a computer. I expect there to be a very short amount of time until the general public will accept that. A lot of people just don't want change and this could be the most significant change in a hundred years. Literally transforming our society, in ways we've never imagined before. Well such a future is enticing. Accident free roads will still take some time. There's no doubt that autonomous drive vehicles eventually will be safer. The transition, however, that's gonna take a long time. And I mean like 15, 20, 25 years. It's not gonna be overnight that we see robo-taxis but when we do, if there is an overwhelming majority of them on the road, they will operate safer than if people are driving. 