 Friends Today I will talk about Self-Driving cars or Driverless car technology.  I will also explain the technology used in these Driverless cars. Friends my name is Rudransh and you are watching Technical Maliya. .. Lets get started.  As you already know friends, Driverless car run Automatically. At least 19 car companies in the world are racing to bring Driverless cars in the market. For example:Google, Tesla, Uber, Toyota, BMW.... Mercedes...are all racing.... ....to bring their car in the market. Lets talk about the technology used in these cars... These cars use very sophisticated technology.. ..such as RADAR, Different cameras.... LIDAR, GPS estimator or tracker and.. to analyze all this technology.... ...these car use a very powerful computer....... .....and a strong software. These cars are still at an initial stage of development and testing. Car companies are doing research and testing.. ...to ensure the safety of these car. First we will talk about the RADAR technology used in these cars. These cars use four RADARs. Three in front... ....and one in the back of the car. These RADAR help the car computer to know what objects are around the car. These car has a very important LIDAR sensor ....which is mounted on the roof of the car. LIDAR means LIGHT DETECTION AND RANGING. This LIDAR is a laser range finder. It has 64 four lasers beams. LIDAR has a revolving sensor... ...that spins around to scan ..near by area up to 200 feet or more. This LIDAR sends a 3D picture of nearby objects to the Car Computer... ...So that car computer can decide.... .... if it needs to put Breaks ON, or slow down..., ....or speed up. These cars has a lot of cameras all around the car. There is special camera that is mounted in front near windshield.... ..Near Rearview mirror. This front camera is used to analyze Traffic lights... To see if Light is GREEN, YELLOW or RED. This front camera is also used to analyze ROAD SIGNS. These cars really have a lot of Cameras all around. These cameras takes a lot of photos of the surrounding. and then sends them to car computer ..so it can take decisions ..if it has to STOP the car or SLOW DOWN or SPEED up. Friends these cars has a GPS Estimator or Tracker. ....Near car wheels. This estimator measures car movement... ...and it locates the car on your GPS map. These car uses a very sophisticated ...Navigation Satellite Technology. Friends, Right Now a lot of car companies around the world... ...are doing safety testing and research. Hardware technology is very much available BUT Software technology for these cars still needs more research..  These cars uses GRAPHIC PROCESSING UNIT(GPU) &...... ...CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT (CPU).. SOFTWARE technology is still NOT PERFECT. Government Authority has made 5 safety level for these cars. Up to LEVEL 3 has been achieved by a lot of companies Some companies has achieved LEVEL 4 Means " HIGH AUTOMATION" STILL there is No company that has achieved level 5 YET! In future ROADS might look like this with these cars....  Friends this was all about SELF-DRIVING CAR technology. Please comment below how did you like the video. Hope you liked this informative video. If you want to see videos in future... Please SUBSCRIBE to my channel. Please click the BELL ICON to get my latest videos. I will see you soon in my next video. Jai Hind and Vande Mataram (Long live the Motherland) 