 Hi! My name is Annika and I'm here with Dennis. Dennis is from the AID and he will explain to me and also to you what AID means and what they do there. Sure, I'm happy to. So basically AID stands for Autonomous Intelligent Driving. It's about autonomous driving, obviously. And we are doing it on the very highest level. So we are trying it on level four and five which is technically defined by an agency. But what's important is: We are going in the middle of the city and we're taking out the steering wheel of the car and just driving with the system itself. So it's a self-driving system at some point you don't have to interfere to do any driving. And we are doing that as a software company – so we are set up in Munich, in the heart of the city to actually be attractive for any software talent. And we're pushing the software company right now to really push the limits of this technology. So what's the goal of the AID then? Well the goal is to actually be the safest system on the market one day. So right now you see a lot of demos out there where different companies show there 'how it could be working' and for us it's really about keeping the quality that Audi has currently and bringing that to a software problem. And to do that we really have to be very reliable, very robust in our system. And that always needs to work. So we only going to bring this to the car once we are sure, once we are absolutely positive, that this is going to be safe and that we can actually trust it in the middle of the cities. So for us the goal was really to be the best system, best being defined as the safest. What does your average working day look like? My normal working day varies largely. I do the partnerships with other companies and for that I have to travel a lot. I spend a lot of my time somewhere between Silicon Valley, Israel, China, other Asian countries as well, obviously there are lots of good partners in Europe as well. What I'm trying to do is to set up the best partner network out there that you could have. We really need to work with the best to be able to deliver this system at the highest standards. And a lot of the technologies right now are still developing, so we need to industrialize certain parts of our self driving stack. And for that we need the right partners to do it with, because we are really pushing for this technology to be as safe as possible. Sounds really cool and interesting. Thank you! Thank you! 