 This video demonstrates the Virtual Agent in the ServiceNow platform. Linked time codes for these topics appear in the YouTube description for this video. Customer service is challenging for companies, their customers, and the agents trying to help them. Companies set up online support material, such as an internal knowledge base, to stem the tide of service requests... ... but they can be difficult for customers to navigate, causing them to request an agent in the end anyway. Agents, expensive and overworked, often end up routing and re-routing customers from one agent to another... ... leaving customers frustrated and annoyed with having to explain their request over and over…. The ServiceNow Virtual Agent gives end users the ability to get help and to get things done... ... by conversing with an automated virtual agent that can assist with common support tasks. By allowing your customers to help themselves right within a familiar messaging interface... ... you can improve customer service while reducing agent workload. The Virtual Agent is deeply integrated with ServiceNow, and supports multiple clients and platforms, including web, IOS, and Android. You can also integrate with third-party messaging apps like Slack and Microsoft Teams, with additional platforms coming soon. Let’s see how the Virtual Agent handles an entire customer service interaction from start to finish. The web client works in the Service Portal, as shown here, and as a link in a support email or invoice. Our customer John wants to check on the status of a case for an issue with a router. To begin the conversation, the Virtual Agent provides two user input options. Clicking this button renders a topic list to pick from... …or entering text produces a list of topics matching the text entry. After the user selects a topic, the Virtual Agent presents a multiple-choice list, providing several options for locating the case. John thinks he remembers the case number... Mmmm, no…he doesn’t. But that’s no problem; the Virtual Agent presents the options again, so he can try something else. And here’s the case he’s looking for. He can access the original case record via the link, add comments to the case, attach a picture, or check another case. But all he wanted to do was verify that there are no updates yet... …so he ends the conversation. In some cases, a customer needs a live agent to complete an interaction... ... and the Virtual Agent can be set up to hand off to a live agent under circumstances you define. Here’s an example. John’s laptop computer starts malfunctioning – first it crashes, and now it won’t start up. So, he returns to the Service Portal to get help. To help the user identify the model... ... this Virtual Agent is set up with a rich control called a carousel, displaying both a picture and text for each model. If none of those are correct, the user can select non of the above. In our example, John can identify the laptop from the carousel options... ... and the Virtual Agent then provides a multiple-choice list to describe the symptoms. But what if there’s more than one option that’s true, like in this case? This control is set up to continue asking the question, until the customer indicates that all of the symptoms are described. The Virtual Agent accesses the item in the customer’s record, and can make recommendations based on that record. In our example, the Virtual Agent recommends replacing the item based on its age, and the reported malfunctions. It then presents replacement options in a carousel for the user to choose from. John contemplates the options, and finally settles on this HP. The Virtual Agent allows him to gauge the urgency of his request with a multiple choice list of options. And it provides a calendar, so he can select a date and time for delivery of his new laptop. He needs it today, in three hours if possible. The Virtual Agent responds with a message confirming the requested time... ... and a link to the Incident record that it creates on the user’s behalf. The Click for more button loads a carousel that allows the user to rate their experience. But John instantly regrets his choice, when he sees that his coworker has a shiny new Dell XPS developer laptop sitting on his desk. “Why didn’t I get that option?!” he laments. So, John rates his experience Unhappy. This virtual agent is set up to immediately hand off an interaction to a live agent chat when a user indicates a negative experience. And here, our live agent Beth sees the incoming support request. The Virtual Agent forwards the entire conversation, so the live agent has all the information gathered within the context of that conversation... ... and can address the customer accordingly. Now, John can make his request via the live agent… …and she can turn an unhappy customer into a satisfied one. Now let’s take a look behind the scenes to see how the scenarios we just saw are created. The Virtual Agent Designer allows administrators to create rich virtual agent interactions, called Topics. Let’s check out the Check Case Status topic from our first scenario. The Designer employs an intuitive flow design, allowing even non-programmers to build topics visually. This flow begins with a static choice list. Here’s the prompt to the user to select the method for locating the case. And here’s the Decision component that branches off to the available options... …where the user enters a case number... …or a short description... … or requests a list of active cases, or those requiring attention. After the user selects the option, another decision component directs the flow to either a case list for the user to pick from, or back to the beginning to start over. Finally, after the user selects the case... ... this decision component provides the options to connect to an agent... ... add more comments, attach an image, or end the conversation. Here are the components you can use to build your topic flow. For user input, you can use text entry, choice lists, boolean options, calendars, image pickers and carousels. We saw these examples earlier. Bot response components include text, images, links html and other rich media that the Virtual Agent can use to interact with the customer. Utilities components allow you to direct the flow with lookups, script actions, and decisions. You can duplicate and customize the topics provided by ServiceNow, or create your own. For either option, first make sure you’re in the application scope where you want to save the topic. In our example, we’re in the Global scope. We don’t recommend saving to the Global scope, as you could accidentally cause conflict with other variables in the system. So we select the correct scope in Settings... …return to the Virtual Agent Designer to duplicate the topic... ... and give the copy a unique name so that we know it’s a customized copy. And here’s where you can add a new topic. Augmenting your customer service options with the Virtual Agent can make life easier for your real-life agents, and your customers. For more information, please consult our product documentation, knowledge base, or podcast. Or ask a question in the ServiceNow Community. 