 Hi guys welcome to the second installment of the video series of conversion to conversation. this is Shadab and this is Malinda and today we are going to talk about why chatbots as a FAQ bot is just a waste of your time. And in order to do that, we have to talk about it. In our last video we talked about the larger opportunity of what can we do with conventional AI and in this this video we are going to dive a bit deep into why NLP technology is important in your conversational Ai stack and how we can go beyond that and deliver optimum conversational experiences. So most of the existing chatbots are keyword based and there isn't really much beyond that and although you can say okay you can create 10 thousand different kinds of funnels and how exactly? how are you gonna look at each  keywords and say that somebody has put thiese key words and we are going to reply these keywords Difficult and impossible to scale Look at an ecommerce, like there are so many products, and so many different kinds of people coming in, and so many different key words and specially if you look at these kind of markets that local languages are very much prominent, if you take markets like Vietnam, Combodia, Bangladesh, Srilanka where lot of local language is present; this is not good enough.  Yeah Just looking for keywords is not good enough and also not really scalable. So how do we solve this problem or is this the problem that's already been solved? So here's the thing. Language is a very contextual thing. NLP, the history basically the way we stand today is, for structured language, NLP is an open and smart solution. There are plenty of solutions like google, like Amazon AWS, like IBM that role a pretty fantastic NLP solutions for all this structured languages. But like Malinda mentioned, it's really when you get into IRP languages, you run into trouble; it really gets very challenging. Because people use mixture of different languages, they use their native toung with English words and we don't really have the NLP stack ready for that. But how do we solve that problem, we have to understand how NLP fundamentally works. NLP is basically, in lamest term, NLP is a piece of software that helps you identify two pieces of information which we call entity and intent. Entity basically helps you understand what a user is talking about and intent basically helps you understand what they want to know about what they are talking about. For example, if a user types "Send" to any interface, say they want to know the price of an iphone, iphone in this case is the entity where knowing the price is the intent. So like Malinda mentioned, when you have an ecommerce company or a market place where you have 20000 products, building a keyword based system is next to impossible. That being said, I do realize the merits of having an FAQ based chatbots to handle customer service to handle questions about shipping policy, return policy and all of these standard question that we get from our customers. On social media every day. But if you really want to build your chatbot as a marketing channel, as a channel where customers get an added value from your brand, we need to understand that, your NLP stack, whether your customers are speaking in English or if your customers are speaking in any other language, needs to be very comprehensive to A, identify entity and intent and B, being able to respond depending on the combination of what the entity is and what the intent is and giving the appropriate response to optimize the conversational funnel. The entire idea of this video series is basically to understand what can we do to optimize this conversational funnel and core component of that is conversational AI where NLP is just a subset of it. And this is one of the largest misconception in the market today is that chatbots equals NLP equals conversational AI. NO! Conversational AI extends beyond NLP to help users understand what users should be given what response to optimize the conversation funnel. Are they more likely to respond to a video? Are they more likely to respond to a massage? Are they more likely to respond to a GIF? Are they more likely to respond to, I don't know, another piece of content? This is where we need to have a more dynamic approach and when you have conversations coming in tens of thousands, it can't be a manual process where you say for entity, intent, this response. This response component has to be dynamic and that is the core value of conversational AI. Absolutely. So, one key thing, or simply if I just sum it up, having conversational AI helps you send the right message, to the right person, in the right platform, at the right point of their customer journey. And being able to do this at scale is what makes conversational AI great. And that's what gives you that possibility to create 10 thousand or 100 thousand or even million different types of funnels. Another thing about talking about conversational AI is when you ask about or when you think about what should be the next reply lot of people are kind of not really slow but it should be. But, what drives a conversation? Questions. Right? Questions drive conversations. And being able to understand and being able to teach a machine to react in this way is the key to winning this game. So, one thing that we will look at in the next episode is what are social matrix we can mashup and also how can we optimize on these matrix so that it drives conversation and it optimizes the overall funnel. So, that's about it! So simple! See you guys next week. 