 I'm on the Microsoft Store website looking to buy a laptop for my daughter. I've been on the site for some time looking at multiple options. I see the chirp with a suggestion to chat with a live agent. The live agent notices that I've been looking for laptops and offers to assist in my search. Now that the agent understands what I am looking for, they suggest relevant intents based off of that information. The agent takes me to the devices site on Microsoft Store so that I can find the laptop. Based off of my selections, we're able to have a conversation over filtered criteria regarding the laptop. Because the laptop is for my daughter and it's for homework, it asked me the next logical question about size and portability of the laptop. The agent asks if I have a budget in mind and is smart enough to weave this along with my previous selections into laptop recommendations. The business agent suggests a few relevant options and presents them as beautiful adaptive cards. Our product provides deep site integration, taking me to the devices page on the Microsoft Store website. As you can see on the main website, additional laptop information is provided as well as options based off of my search criteria. I decided this is, in fact the best option for my daughter. I add this surface laptop to my cart, I'm now doing this where it makes the most sense on the Microsoft Store website. My conversation with the agent automatically updates even though I'm interacting with the website, showcasing the deep site integration. The business agent asks if I'm ready to check out and prompts me to sign in. I'm seamlessly transitioned to Microsoft. account.com to sign in with my email and password. After signing in, the agent is able to access Microsoft User Graph. It can pull information about me and personalize the conversation going forward. The live agent now greets me using my first name, Jamie and includes my address in delivery options. I placed the order, the business agent thanks me for placing the order and presents the order summary in an adaptive card. With personalized and contextual conversations, the ability to answer product questions and recommend products and deep site integration to the website, our business agent is able to transact and order seamlessly on my behalf, demonstrating the power of virtual agents in helping me find the right product based on my needs. 