 This year 5G is everywhere. 5G, 5G, 5G, 5G! Most of the major smartphone makers have released 5G compatible phones for 2019 as the infrastructure continues to expand and the network gradually rolls out. The growth in the technology can be seen in the amount of 5G SEPs or Standard Essential Patents that were declared last year. Companies need to own these if they want to implement 5G technology, and in 2018 the number more than quadrupled from the year before. But 5G is not just about faster connectivity to your smartphone. Things we do every day will become streamlined because of the new technology. For consumers, grocery shopping may have just got a whole lot quicker. Behind us is retail re-imagined. You may want to have a retail pop-up store almost anywhere. At a concert, at a sporting event, at a convention center and be able to do that wirelessly without requiring a lot of infrastructure build-out or laying of cable or fiber, that’s what 5G will allow you to do. This is my 5G-connected smartphone and my grocery store has given me a unique QR code. So I just scan it here, and start shopping. Once into the shop, I’m left to my own devices. I can just take whatever I want off the shelves and now all I do is walk out of the store. And it all works because of these 5G-connected cameras. They see what I pick up off the shelves and bill me directly to my 5G connected smartphone, so that I don't have to check out. For businesses, the network’s increased capacity has the ability to help operations at all stages of the supply chain. Manufacturing, for instance, would benefit from faster connectivity to manage inventory and eliminate bottlenecks. This demo from SK Telecom is a 5G-connected factory, which really illustrates how 5G will be able to help industry. The industries are getting more smarter than before. 5G can transmit more information and data from sensors to servers. So how does this 5G-connected factory work? Well, this robotic camera is taking photos of each component on the production line and any ones that are defective are then discarded. 5G is also being adopted by the medical industry. High internet speeds could help improve the standard of care for patients. For example, let’s say ambulance staff have a patient that needs complex treatment that requires the help of an expert but they don’t have time to return to the hospital. 5G could allow medical specialists to support ambulance staff via a live video link, even while they’re out on the road. When there is an event or an accident that requires a specialist, the professional has a visual view of the patient in high definition. He’s also monitoring in real time the data from the different electronic equipment of the patient so that they can take decisions in real time. Smartphones may be our first introduction to 5G, but it’s most significant impact may be felt in how it connects us to everything else. Hi guys, thanks for watching our video. If you want to see more of our content then check out these, particularly this one which is a fantastic 5G explainer. And comment below the video to let us know what you think of the new technology. And don't forget to subscribe. 