 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and right now we're  going to talk about 5G Advanced Antenna Systems.   So, what is it advanced antenna system? This is  the combination of advanced hardware such as   antenna arrays with multiple antenna elements  and software features such as beamforming,   massive MIMO with multiple layers for single  user, for multi-user MIMO. So, by default   in 5G NR it's considered the massive antenna arrays   with the cross polarization elements. Let's  look at my example, here we can see the 64   x-polarization elements, all of these elements  divided into sub-arrays. Sub-arrays is good in terms of reliability. It gives ability  for the whole system to steer beam, to manage beam.   We can divide the whole antenna system  into sub-arrays in horizontal direction or   in vertical directions. In horizontal  it's good for forming and managing beams   into horizontal. And in vertical it gives the  possibility to such antenna to manipulate beam   in vertical. So, it's very important to know and  understand what exactly do you need for your   network. For example, for rural areas you need  to deploy probably only antenna system with   horizontal sub-arrays, because only  in horizontal direction you need   beam steering ability. For dense urban,  for urban environment probably you   need to deploy sub-arrays with not only  horizontal ability but also with vertical, with vertical divided elements in order  to steer beams in vertical direction as   well and serve users in verticals. So, this  is the sub-array, each sub-array consists of two RF chains. It means that one RF chain for each polarization. It doesn't matter   actually how many antenna elements inside the sub-array it can be like this sub-array with 8  antenna elements or with 2 cross-polar  polarized antenna elements. It means that in   any cases there will be just 2 RF chains for  each polarization. It means two transmitters for   one sub-array. That's why here 16 sub-arrays, because this 8 sub-arrays for each sub-array we use two RF chain. It means  16 transmitters overall for the whole system. We   can divide even further like this. Let's assume  that we divide our antenna system in more sub- arrays to give the possibility for beam steering  in vertical direction. In this case will be 64 64 transmitters. And there will be a little bit  difference, because when it comes to antenna   gain antenna, gain depends on the number  of all antenna elements for the whole antenna.   So, antenna gain will be the same for  the first example, or for this example.   But the sub-array gain would be different,  because a sub-array gain related to   the number of X-pol elements in sub-array. More  elements in sub-array we have,   the more gain such sub-array can  give us. So, here let's assume 2   cross elements per-sub array. And here let's assume that we have one sub-array with 8 antenna  elements. And this will give us plus 6 dB beam power, because here in 4 times,  in 4 times more antenna elements than here.   So, let's continue to talk about multiple  sub-arrays, about multiple antenna systems.   3GPP has further classification  for advanced antenna systems.   Such antenna systems can be as a single panel  when we have a single panel with cross elements   and inside this panel divided into sub arrays, as  we've already talked. It can be uniform multi-panel.   So, just 1 panel divided into multiple  panels. And it can be non-uniform multi-panel.   It is when the distance between cross elements,  the nearest cross elements of two or many panels   is more than the distance in this case or  the distance between the cross elements.   The same like in my example. As you can see D3 is  larger than D1 or D2. And D1 and D2 is equal.   So, what gives us such way of antenna system construction in terms of massive  MIMO implementation? Let's look at this.  It gives us the multiple combinations of MIMO  and beamforming. We can use one antenna panel for   one beam, for generated just one but very powerful  beam, using analog beamforming, for example.   The second case is we  can use two antenna panels.   Two antenna panels four generating 2 beams and  this will be MIMO2x2. Or we, actually, can   divide our single panel into sub-arrays  and to use the same principle here.   So, it means that two antenna panels or two sub-arrays for two beams this is the case of MIMO 2x2.   Or it can be a combination of panels and sub-arrays if this panel divided into multiple   sub-arrays. It can generate  multiple beams with multiple spatial multiplexing.   For example, this will give us the possibility  to use massive MIMO for such system. The key   element here, the key element for  success for such antenna panels is to perform the uncorrelated pair of  beams. Especially this is very important   for high-band for millimeter  waves. And, actually that's why in FR1 it can be up to MIMO8x8. It  is possible MIMO8x8. But for FR2 is only possible to use MIMO2x2. Because four millimeter waves, for high-band the propagation is pretty equal from each  antenna set, from each antenna sub-arrays to each other.   And millimeter waves, so it's pretty difficult to divide, to have uncorrelated pairs of beams.   So, that's why for FR2 only MIMO2x2  is possible and for-low bands MIMO8x8.  Now let's talk about other aspects of  advanced antenna systems. Let's continue to talk about advanced antenna systems in 5G!  Let's talk about physical ports, logical ports and,   as it calls sometimes, virtual ports. The thing  is that user equipment doesn't know anything about   how many cross elements used for beamforming,  for MIMO. How many elements consist of such   sub arrays or arrays. The thing is that user  equipment can only work with, can only understand   logical ports (or virtual ports). Let's look at my  example. Here you can see massive antenna array   with the x-polarization elements and this  antenna array divided into sub-arrays,   like in previous examples. Here 8 sub-arrays,  for each sub-array we have 8 cross elements.   So it means we need 16   transmitters, 8 cross elements by 2  polarization. But user equipment doesn't   know anything about it! User equipment can  only understand from logical point of view.   So, what does it mean?! It means that one sub-array  from logical point of view represents just one, just two connections for each polarization.  So this logical port related to this sub-array, this logical port related to this. It means that 8 sub-arrays we have - 8 logical ports we can represent and use.   Let's divide our physical antenna  into more sub-arrays. Let's put vertical   subarrays and right now we have in 2 times  more sub-arrays. So we need not 16 but 32   transmitters for operation of such  system, because here sub-array 1, here 2,   3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 8 plus 8 right now, 16 sub-arrays used. And, of course, from logical   point of view there there will be changes:  we need more logical ports for such system.   And as you can see here 2 vertical  in vertical dimension 2 ports   and 8 in horizontal direction like the  same with sub-arrays for physical antenna.   Here the connections from logical point of view.  So, this one represent, this port represents   these and so on. So, when it comes to  reference signals, when it comes to   channel state information reference signals,  each CSI-RS mapped to each logical port.   We will talk about it later in my next videos. So,  what else? It's important to say that more   subarrays we have - more transmitters we have to use.  It is good in terms of steerability in vertical   direction or in horizontal direction. But it's not  so good in terms of cost. More sub-arrays we have,  the cost of such system will  be higher. So, let's move to another aspects. Okay, right now let's talk about physical size. I hope  you know that physical size of antenna related to   the frequency it operates. For example, physical  size of antenna for 3GHz band and 128   x-polarization elements would be about 50 by 60cm. Such antenna panel for 30GHz with the same number of x-polarization  elements would be just 5cm by 6cm - very small antenna array with multiple  antenna elements. What does it mean? It means that millimeter waves, it means that FR2 bands are  very suitable for implementation into smartphones.   Let's assume this is a smartphone. And as  far as I know, a new smartphones can be with a few,   even a few antenna arrays for millimeter waves  in order to avoid hand overlapping. If you hold your smartphone you can overlap, you  can cover the one of the antenna panel. For millimeter waves everything is obstacle, even your  hand can drastically drop the quality of signal.   That's why in many smartphones chipmakers deploy multiple  arrays for millimeter waves, for example, here   at the bottom or from the another side  in order to avoid, again, hand overlapping.   And one more thing I want to say is that  for mid-band, for low-bands is usually used hybrid beamforming or digital  beamforming. This is mainly suitable for hybrid or even for digital beamforming, because for such waves,  for such frequencies you cannot deploy too many   antenna elements. It is usually about 64 antenna  elements or around 128 antenna elements.   You don't have to divide such panel into multiple sub-arrays   with multiple TRx, with multiple RF chains. And  you can deploy hybrid or digital beamforming,   because such implementation would not be so costly  for millimeter waves. You can deploy even more   antenna elements: it can be like these  or 384 antenna elements, or even 512   antenna elements. And of course each antenna  elements should be connected to RF chain   or even divided further into sub-arrays. Usually this will be very costly solution if we would like to use hybrid or digital beamforming.  That's why for millimeter waves, for high-band,   at least for the first steps,  will be used analog beamforming. In order to lower the  final price for such solution. So, this was my   short lesson about advanced antenna systems  in 5G NR. If you want to know more about   5G, about antenna aspects, core  network aspects, about security   you can subscribe to my channel  and like this video! Goodbye! 