 In this video, I'll review Samsung's latest Galaxy S20 FE (Fan Edition) 5G. This great device comes with 6 different colors. But why did I say it is a 'great' device? Because indeed it is great with the amazing specs and features it comes with. Let's start the video together. [Intro] Peace be with you all. This is your host, Mohammed Hadaidi. I said that this device comes with great specs and features, and in this video, I'll prove what I said. Let me now discuss these specs starting with the screen. The Galaxy S20 FE device comes with a flat 6.5" screen. The screen is Super AMOLED with FHD+ resolution. The screen supports HDR10+ and 120Hz refresh rate. The screen also comes with an in-display fingerprint sensor. Honestly, the screen is full option. This screen is one of the best screens out there. The colors are amazing, and its size is suitable. It is not huge, not small, but rather, it is in a little bigger than in between. And it also supports 120Hz refresh rate. There's a punch hole in the top of the screen to house the 32MP front facing camera. The camera supports a wide angle with an F/2.2 aperture. This camera is capable of shooting 4K@60fps videos. While on the back there's triple cameras. The main one is the Wide 12MP lens. The second is the 8MP Zoom lens. And it supports 3x optical zoom and 30x digital zoom. The third is the Ultra Wide 2MP lens. The rear camera can also shoot 4K@60fps videos. I'll leave photo and video samples of the front facing camera and rear cameras towards the end of this video. Let now discuss the powerful CPU. The device comes with Qualcomm's latest Snapdragon 865+ CPU with 7nm architecture build. It also comes with 8GB of DDR5. The onboard storage is 128GB UFS 3.1 You can also expand the storage up to 1TB using an SD Card. Don't let these specs distract you from the fact that this device supports 5G networks. It also supports an eSIM. The device is equipped with a 4500mAh battery and it supports fast charging with 25w. It also supports wireless charging with 15w and reverse wireless charging with 5w. This device supports all kinds of charging (wired, wireless and reverse wireless charging) This device runs Android 10 with Samsung's latest One UI 2.5 on top of it. The device supports bluetooth 5.0, WiFi 6 and NFC. It comes with stereo speakers with Dolby Atmos support. The device supports IP68 water and dust resistant. And as you see, the device is actually great. It comes with a powerful CPU and other specs. The current price of the device is 2599 SAR, and it is available in all stores. One of the cons I've noticed in this device is that sometimes, the fingerprint sensor doesn't recognize my fingerprint quickly. I wished that it was quicker. The battery is 4500mAh, but with the 120Hz refresh rate and 5G networking, the battery will drain quickly. But in honestly, all in all, this device is powerful. It is indeed very great. I even believe that the specs of this device is better than that of the Note 20 regardless of the S Pen. This is the end of this video. Hopefully, it was informative for you. Thank you. Don't forget to like this video and subscribe to the channel. I''ll give away this device on my account on Twitter. I'll leave a link to my Twitter account in the video description. I'll leave you now with video and photo samples of the front facing camera and rear cameras taken with this device. Voice your opinion about the feature you like the most about this device. See you later. 