 More rapidity, More possibilities. They are the main words of our daily Is this a good or a bad thing? It depends obviously. About 5g, opinions are mixed between  skeptics and pro-5g In fact, the subject is complex, and can be separated into three parts. The technological prowess behind 5g, Geopolitical issues and finally the health. With "Cyanyxel", we're going to talk to you about 5G operation and possibilities. The other axes will be treated on the channel of "Contradico" for the geopolitical part, and the channel "D'où ça vient" for the Health part around waves. We encourage you to see their work after this video So, you understood it, we're going on "Bonjour Monde" to speak about 5G 5g is controverted There are hundreds of articles which said everything and its opposite 5g is awesome and causes cancer Already, to start... To start, what is 5g ? 5g is the cadet of mobile networks. Like its predecessors, it wants to improve the quality of the network. For once, 5g allows a significant improvement in connection speed compared to 4G 5g isn't already officially defined yet, but it is expected to be 10 times faster than 4G How can this be possible? It happens at the level of waves length 5G uses lower wave frequency than 4G The lower frequencies have the advantage of circulating more data, and faster Their disadvantages are that they propagate less in the air and logically will need more antennas. In March 2018, 5G tests were carried out by two Asian firms including Huawei. They used much lower frequencies in comparison to 4G, and the results were impressive They obtained a speed twice as fast as optical fiber in France Obviously, this test wasn't representative and took place under optimal conditions, but it shows the potential of this innovation. As well, 5G could bring higher connection capacity. More people could log in at the same time. Useful in large cities, where it will be deployed first. When we think about it, is such a quality mobile network necessary? For many, we have a decent connection in cities. Will it be really useful? That's good questions. For the urban person with fiber, there are certainly a few advantages if we omit the house exits. But for us, 5G isn't really destined for them Indeed, this connection capacity will allow the realization of an IOT For those who don't know, an IOT is an abbreviation of "Internet Of Things" or in french "Internet des objets" (baguette) This concept is a principle of interconnection between connected objects that can convey information. To illustrate the concept, we often use this example : A car hits a pole on the side of the road. A camera observes and, aided by AI, conclued it was an accident No time to waste! It sends the information to an administration which will act accordingly. The emergency services are notified and they immediately obtain the location of the accident. Moreover, traffic lights of this area turn red to avoid other accidents in the circulation An IOT could make cities "Connected", cities able to respond to problems in the blink of an eye. Firstly, the 5G brings the "Network Slicing" In other words, it is the capacity to virtually slice the network in order to adapt the bandwidth to each use. 5G is certainly faster than older generations it is preferable to use it well. Thus, a phone or a connected watch will have a much lower flow compared to a medical device or an autonomous car. Of course, this was just an example and sharing bandwidth will be more complex taking into account the number of connected objects The goal here is to build a massive and functional IOT. To put it simply, the network will be adapted according to the priorities. Logically, road safety will be privileged on your Netflix series 5G also brings a massive use of Cloud and finally, of Cloud computing. Cloud Computing is access to a computer via the internet. For example, Shadow allows you to play on a high-end PC on your computer, whatever its configuration and even from your phone. This is an information constant exchange on your connection to transfer pictures, sounds, commands... and all in real-time. The proof that this technology has future is that even google is interested with the Stadia's launching. Its online gaming service Young startups like Hume and always promise more. This is where 5G comes in. Standards screens turn to 4k 60fps, we understand that we need a solid connection to allow some stability with remote access. 5G is likely to dramatically change our online consumption patterns If Cloud Computing democratizes, the consoles or the gaming computer may eventually disappear completely, to be stored on data centers. It's important to see that behind the 5G innovation, are hiding many subjects of rivalry. Whatever it be commercials conflicts between USA and China, with the Huawei banishment by americans to take an example. There are also many races all over the world to obtain a leading position in the 5G market. Finally, some people mention potential risks in terms of health. But until today, no study proves that humans have organs capable to capt waves produce by mobile networks. But it's not because we've nothing, that there is nothing. and if there are any potential dangers, we absolutely need to detect theirs as fast as possible. To obtain more information about geopolitical and commercial conflicts we encourage you to watch the video of "Contradico", which will treat more in-depth the subject. And for the health aspect, it's the "D'où ça vient" channel, which will give you a little topos about waves. And finally, we would thank "Cyanyxel" who participated to the video and help us to make it. He has a channel about informatics and technology. So you have 3 super-channels to discover, their links are in the description. We think we said it all, you were on "Bonjour Monde", goodbye and we hope, see you soon! 