 Mi10T dan Mi10T Pro Xiaomi has just launched 2  very interesting smartphones equipped with Snapdragon 865 that known to be very fast. at the price of Rp.5,999,000 for the Mi 10T and IDR 6,999,000 for the Mi 10T Pro as you can see here. This is amazing, don't be surprised if we  really like this smartphone and we will recommend it to you too. Now, Do you want to know what the details are? We've got the Mi10T Pro, and  we've got a short oppurtunity, a few days to test it and we will show it in this short review. We say this is a short review or a quick review  because we have a fast review Not because the review has a short duration, not because the review is only 5 minutes, but because we have a very short time to review this smartphone. This time, we got Mi10T Pro and we got a few days to review it, so we can make a review and we can show it with hopefully quick. So, Xiaomi presents the Mi10T series, there's the regular Mi10T and there's the Mi10T Pro Mi10T is the cheaper version, which costs IDR 5,999,000 Mi 10T Pro is a slightly higher version, it costs 1 million rupiah more than the regular Mi10T. What's the difference between the regular and the pro? We will explain it later after we tested this phone. Actually, it's only the camera and the storage, there aren't so much difference between the 2 phone and which we will test this time is the Mi10T Pro. Yes - Mi10T Pro, the phone tagline is Flagship Camera, Display and Speed Isn't wrong at all. There is the unit in the box, also there is an Antibacterial Screen Protector  which is already been installed, there is a 33W charger, there is a USB type C cable with orange accent in the port, also there is a Silver Iron Antibacterial Case, There are documents, there is a SIM Ejector,  there is a Type C Adapter to a 3.5mm Jack for the audio. And there is a thank you card from Alvin Tse,  the Country Director of Xiaomi Indonesia Okay, let's take a look on the phone design, According to Xiaomi, the design tagline is Sophisticated Design, Flagship Feel. Yes, this phone feels like a flagship phone. The 2 color choices are Cosmic Black and Lunar Silver. and this applies to Mi10T and Mi10T Pro. The back cover is protected by Gorilla Glass 5, it has glossy finish, even we can see  our reflection on the back glass, Of course, without the case. Unfortunately, there is no special coating to minimize fingerprint marks. So it's not hard to make dirty spots around the phone. The solution for this problem  is to use it with clear case. The frame material is Alumunium, the dimensions of the phone are 165.1mm x 76.4mm x 9.5mm, the phone itself weight of 218 grams. On the right side of the phone we can see side-mounted fingerprint and this is also combined  with the power button. I really like this because it's fast and it's on the power button too. And then, there are buttons for volume up and down right there, and we can see there are striping or antenna lines there. Then on the top side, there's a microphone and an Infrared Blaster. Yes, you can use this as your remote control. There is a speaker output hole on the top side too, this is interesting. There are speakers also on this side. And then, on the left side we'll see only antenna lines. It's quite plain on the left side. Let's move to the bottom side, There are again two antenna lines, then there is the main speaker at the bottom. The audio is stereo. There's a microphone  hole there too, there is a USB type C port, and there is a SIM Card slot for Dual SIM. But unfortunately this phone doesn't  support MicroSD, there is no MicroSD so  this is not hybrid either, and there is no headphone jack below here. Turning to the back side, we can see there is a triple camera with a fairly large camera model. There is an LED Flash there too. For the camera spec, it got 180MP Wide Angle Camera, using Samsung Bright S5KHMX Yes - F / 1.69, it is quite big Autofocus and this is a 7p lens or 7 elements of the lens, equipped with OIS or Optical Image Stabilizer, so the Mi10T Pro is equipped with an optical stabilizer For video recording, it can reach 8K or 8K 30 fps. And there is the 13MP Ultrawide Angle Camera, it got an aperture of f2.2 with a 5p or 5 element lens. With viewing angle of 123 degrees and this is a Fixed Focus lens, so it's not Autofocus. You can record videos in 4K 30fps it's quite good actually, There is a macro camera, equipped with 5MP, with aperture of f/2.4 and this macro camera is equipped with autofocus Ranging from 2 centimeters up to 10 centimeters and it can record videos too. The video recording can reach 1080p 30fps The interesting thing is, Xiaomi stated that the camera module is protected by Corning Gorilla Glass 5. Hmm... this is quite interesting... Okay, on the screen side, we can see there is a selfie camera 20MP Ultra Clear Front Camera 20MP, using Samsung S5K3T2 censor, The aperture is f2.2, the lens is 5p and this is a Fixed Focus camera instead of Autofocus The camera form is a punchhole model on the left side and can be used for face unlock too, of course. For video recording, this can reach to 1080p 30 fps. Not yet 4k or 1080p 60fps, but we don't know with software updates later,  it would change or not, but what is clear, when we tested it, it's still 1080p 30 fps. As we discussed it before, there is  also a speaker on the top side so there are 2 speaker holes, which make this phone have stereo audio which is very interesting because the main speaker is located in the cut-out where the earpiece located. But he does have a hole, we discussed it earlier, in the top frame This feature is similar to some flagship smartphones Which also uses holes on the top side, which purpose is to make the sound wider to the side, because the below speaker will make the sound goes below the phone, The top one too, the sound usually goes forward Because the earpiece is facing to the ear. Well, so there must be a hole on the side so that the voice goes sideways too. So if you watch a video or listen to the music,  the sound is really smooth. And then, we can see there is also Notification LED on the top bezel Well, for the screen, this is the size 6.67 'DotDisplay. This is a flat screen and there is no curves at all, actually, that isn't matter at all. The resolution is Full HD + (2400x1080 px) with refresh rate up to144hz You can choose the refresh rate,  from up to 144hz, or up to 90hz and there is 60hz too. Adaptive Sync is supported from 30-144hz. The refresh rate will adjust accordingly with the content. It runs automatically which makes the battery live longer. Unfortunately there is no on / off switch for this feature. And about Adaptive Sync, we can't forced it only to run in 144hz We can't lock the Refresh Rate but I don't think this is a really big problem though, For the screen itself,  the Color Gamut is NTSC 96% / DCI-P3 98%. This is amazing, with the Delta E or deviation is said less than 0.63 Less than 2 is already good, less than 1 is great! It dares to say it less than 0.63, which is very interesting. The brightness level can reach 650 nits with a typical at 500 nits. The screen is also equipped with TUV Rheinland Low Blue Light Certification a Corning Gorilla Glass 5, and already supports HDR 10. Oh yeah, about the IPS, we can see that the color is nice, especially with earlier DCIP 3 support  up to 98%. The colors shown are already fascinating. No complaint at all about the color. Okay - then for the specifications inside, the chipset is Snapdragon 865. Yes, we don't even need to talk about it again It's surely fast. It's 865 not 865+ This version got 8GB RAM LPDDR5 with 256 GB UFS 3.1 storage A quick note, when we turn on the phone for the first time,  because of the OS and default application the storage has been taken around 20GB by default. But, it has 256 GB for the Mi10T Pro, so i think there is no problem. Now for the battery, this phone is equipped a 5000 mAh  with a 33W Fast Charge Meanwhile, for the cooling system it uses a liquid cooling chamber We've discussed about liquid cooling before Yes, this phone uses that system too. Okay, Well, for the OS it uses MIUI 12 and it is Android 10. When you turn on the phone for the first time, there is very little bloatware. There aren't many pre-installed apps. Unless you setup from scratch and you just press "next" all along. Because you might be offered some  recommended Apps to install by Xiaomi. You can skip it, But if you just press "okay" on it, please be careful because there will be many application that will be installed. So, take it slow at the first time you turn the phone on. We found some pretty interesting MIUI features like the Video Toolbox. The Video Toolbox contained some interesting features when we opened the video application. We take an example of using it on Youtube. To be able to use this feature, you must first select the app you want to add into this feature, Go to Settings menu, then Special Feature, to the Video Toolbox right there. If so, then just slide from the corner of the screen, there will be an indicator. There are many interesting features related to video playing, but there are 2 features that catches our attention. The first is to Play Video with Screen Off So, we can play Youtube videos even  when the screen turns off. Usually when our screen turns off, Youtube is also stop playing. This feature is really nice for anyone who wants to stream music, or listen to podcasts on Youtube. Jagat Podcast is also on Youtube a lot. If it is too troublesome to look for it on the Podcast Channel, You can just play it from there, and there is no need to use Youtube Premium, You can turn off the screen also. Unfortunately, this is only useful with screen off, not yet able for background playback. Yes, you can't do the background playback. Then, there is the App Floating Window feature. From this Video Toolbox we can open the application we want into a small floating window, so we could do some multitask while watching videos. Also, there are some interesting features like Game Turbo. It contains a lot of gaming support features. Through this feature, we can see CPU, GPU, FPS Counter even in game. But unfortunately not in the form  of a floating window. So, we can't see it while playing. You have to stop first, then  slide the panel to the Game Turbo, Then, there is a second space. We can make two displays in one smartphone. Display 1 can contain our main data, while Display 2 can display a new, blank screen,  it also can be filled with data or different applications from the first display. For example, if there is a friend or a child want to borrow your phone, but we don't want our application or main data is seen by them, just turn the second space on, and then they can't access our main display. The feature required a new different password or fingerprint from the first display (main one). For example, if the display one look uses the thumb, later for the second display we can use the index finger. This feature is easy to use. Next feature is Floating Window. Well, this one makes the application open  in the form of a floating window. this feature can be accessed from various ways, But what we like the most is when the notification bar goes down,  we hold it for a while, then we drag it down, then we can multitask without having to move from the main application which was where we're looking at. And then, there is also a feature called Lite Mode. This feature makes the icon on the home screen bigger without an app drawer. This probably very suitable for older people, maybe... For those who need a bigger icon,  or less tech-savvy, who wants the display to look simple. Okay - We'll continue, from the sensor side , we can see that this is a well equipped sensor Accelerometer, Light, Proximity, Orientation, Gyro, Magnetic, and others, all is good. Meanwhile, for the connectivity this is very interesting The price was ... how much was that? At IDR 5,999,000 and IDR 6,999,000, huh? It depends on the version that you take. Both are 5G ready. Yes... This phone is already supported 5G Then, it already have Wifi 6 or Wifi AX You can share the WiFi too, So you can connect to the same Hotspot  while creating a new Hotspot It can do that. This phone has 5.1 Bluetooth version. There is also Infrared Blaster and NFC. Okay - let's get into the performance test We start with Antutu 7, we see that the score is quite high it got 459000s. In Antutu 8, we got around 580000s, It is very good though considering the price tag is relatively low. For Geekbench, we can take a look Geekbench 4, single core at 4272, there are multi cores at the 13000s, this is a really good score. Geekbench 5, single core at 905 with multi core 3371, It's impressing. Unfortunately we have found some benchmarks having trouble with the Adaptive Sync. Because there is the status, you have to recognize the application and then adjust it. Some benchmarks are locked at 50fps, we don't know why, but it should not be a problem with everyday life, right? Due to distracted benchmark tests, so we skip 3DMark because  the scores were quite different, and some on-screen GFX scores that are affected by the problem. But we can use GFX off screen, GFXBench for 1080p T-Rex Offscreen  got a whopping 204 fps. Well, now we move on to temperature and consistency of the performance. This has really a lot of requests, we tested it using a 30-minute CPU Throttling Test. The screen temperature of the hottest area is near the earpiece at 42 degrees celcius, and the rear body, hottest in the camera module area, it's approximately 40 degrees celsius. This includes a cool temperature for a stress test like this The result is we can see the throttling at 80% Still good, i guess. It seems to maintain the temperature, The Mi10T Pro system is designed to reduce its performance when it's hot. This is pretty usual, this is one of its points differentiate between flagship smartphones and gaming smartphones. Gaming smartphone will run hot but not for this phone. No, you guys will feel uncomfortable later. So, let's move to the gaming capabilities. Yes, it uses Snapdragon 865 Even though it's not a gaming smartphone, But still it should be tight. Let's try it on PUBG Mobile first It got 3 max defaults, there is smooth 90fps, HDR Extreme 90fps, and Ultra HD Ultra 40fps For fun, we forced this phone to use Ultra HD+90fps How is it? If you think the basic default is too boring. Well, we played in classic 1 match mode, approximately 25 minutes to finish the match. In the beginning, we got 85-90 fps,  then when it gets a little warm, it started to dropping to around 75-80fps. When entering the 20th minute, system lowers the refresh rate to 60hz and fps is lowered to 60hz And when it started cool again, it went back to 85-90fps. This is interesting So it feels like if we want to play for a long duration, there are 2 good solutions. The first is to set it to a lighter setting. For example Smooth 90fps, lock as well as possible, there is some  twisting to 90 or 60 as well if you really wanted to, Or if you just want to maximize it, use an extra cooler so the temperature isn't very hot. So in PUBG we find that the gyro is good and smooth. So, we move on to PES 2021 here. The setting is High, the fps is at 60, the setting is 60fps on average. Honkai Impact 3, the setting on no.4, all to the max. Light scene 44-60fps, Heavy scene, Open World stage, itu 30-40fps. Other smartphones have already been unlocked to surpass 60fps unfortunately it doesn't work yet in this phone,  but it doesn't matter. Please check the price. Genshin Impact, the High setting all effects are in maximized setting 50-60fps if you just strolling around, if you do the battle, it can drop the fps down to 30-45fps. But there is still no android smartphone that can handle this game at 60fps continuously. Including the battles, there hasn't been a drop in fps in several scenarios. So if it drops to 30-45fps, this is  actually a problem from the developer side. Maybe if next time it turns on VR and the others, maybe later it will be even more fun. Okay then, how about the 144fps game? This screen is 144Hz, it should do 144 fps. But this is not a gaming smartphone, So let's see! Real Racing 3, there are other smartphones that can run 144fps pretty well. unfortunately in this phone,  it is stuck at 60fps. Then Dead Trigger 2, the default setting immediately opens 144fps. The result can be up to 142-144fps. Constant performance. So it's very good. Then, Shadowgun Legend. The graphic setting is Ultra High 90fps. Even though the fps setting is 60, when the battle is automatic goes up to 144fps But unfortunately the results are not optimal in this game, if the screen is set to 144, sometimes frame drops still occur, frame skip, something like that Sometimes the frame rate tends to fluctuate. Our advice is for Shadowgun Legend to  just lock it at 60 to make it more comfortable, more stable. And Minecraft. Somehow the screen automatically adjusts to 60hz every time get into Minecraft. It's really funny. Every time you enter the game automatically 90hz. So the maximum is only 90fps So we still don't see it running at 144fps. Then we set the Render Distance, defaults to 20 chunks, the result is 70-90fps If you want to be stable at 90fps, yes we gotta get it down to 12 chunks. It's also pretty good at 12 chunks. Okay Gaming tests is done, now let's test the battery. For video playback, when the screen is in automatic condition, We get that we can play videos 24 hours! 24 hour video playing Sorry, 23 hours 56 minutes Yes, only 4 minutes different Let's assume it as 24 hours That's so long. For a smartphone at this price and a processor this fast, with a 144hz screen of course. Then then if we play games Genshin Impact for 30 minutes, it drained the battery about 13% we use wifi while playing though. This is also acceptable, because usually the battery will be drained to 13-15% Then for Charging, this is also interesting, from empty to full charged, remember this is a 5000mAh it only takes 1 hour 7 minutes Nice, this is really good 1 hour 7 minutes, that is reallyfast Okay, okay the battery is durable and performance is okay, let's try the camera but of course not in the room. Let's go outside first. Yes, so this is the selfie camera. Mi10T Pro which is actually the same as the usual Mi 10 T So the specs are exactly the same like this phone I'm very sorry because of the weather isn't too good So this is not the brightest condition I can get Let us see what happen if  we take this phone a walk By the way, I don't use an extra microphone This is coming from Mi10T Pro mic only. Yes, so if you do some vlogging , it will be like this I really just using my hands, I don't use a tripod, I don't use anything Can you see? That the stabilizer is really cool Even though you use a selfie camera Yes, so it's stable. It's really good to use vlogging Okay, so this is the main camera for the MI10T Pro If I take it for a walk, it looks like this Look at the stabilization as you can see The stabilization and details are like this Is it good? Well, this is the Ultrawide camera of Mi10T Pro, The stabilizer is also here, So this is really good, very well equipped and the stabilization, all is good. How it is? Now this is the macro mode It can record videos. Let's take a closer look. This little flower? Wow, it can be really close, huh? It's cool ,isn't it? If we start from normal mode, from wide mode we can zoom in about 6x This the 6x Zoom looks like we can go backward again. But we can't access Ultra Wide. If we want the  Ultra Wide, we have to start from Ultra Wide. Now this is Ultrawide, now in Ultrawide we can zoom in up to 2x and we can't get through to the telephoto, or more than 2x because we started from Ultra Wide. So you have to choose If you want to start wide, it must be Ultra Wide, If you want to tele, you have to start from normal or starting at its wide. Yes, can it make bokeh while on video? Yes, it can. Just this selfie camera can only be 1 camera only it can make a bokeh effect at the back like this. And we can adjust how blurry the back is This is dual video mode. So this is not edited, this is already the original coming from the phone camera like this I can choose where I want to be do you want on the top left, or want to side by side or something This of course will be very useful for vlogging or those who need 2 cameras ... Because this is a live, rear camera live too also with walking. Let's see, if for example we are vlogging like this, how will it be? We're vlogging, chatting ... This is live ... This doesn't use any video editing. So, I can vlog while still showing my face. I can say, "Yes, look at the water here huh ..." "Really cool, because it's still early, still a lot of dew, " "and this is also the because of the rain" It's so cool Dual video can also be like this So, big ... right and left anywhere you want. Again, this is not editing So I can give you a look Oh, it's good for a tutorial I can say "Look at this one, this there are two oranges", for example Cool, cool, I like the dual video Xiaomi here. Okay, now let's see the menu for the Pro Mode If we entered the Pro mode, now this is the mode for taking photo, this is the photo mode. We can see the White Balance which we can choose, We can choose focus, Then, this Shutter Speed up to 30 seconds, until it's really white. Then, for ISO we can choose up to 6400. Yes, the ISO is up to 6400, then here is the option for turn EV up and down, and we can still choose which lens to use. Wide, Ultra Wide, or even want the macro it can too. Well, this is interesting, if we want to move to video mode, we can actually, here we move to the video if the circle is red like this, it's the video mode. Well, it is quite the same. Here we can also adjust the White Balance, We can adjust the Focus too, then for the shutter speed, but limited to 1/8 Yes, 1/30 is actually enough ... But this is 1/8 for the video, then for ISO it's also up to 6400 too. Then, we can choose the same for +/- and also can choose which lens to use. So in Pro mode, the freedom of use is amazing ... You can choose to make photos, you can also choose for videos too. Okay, it's not like that, yes, the Mi10T Pro camera test This wouldn't be much different from the Mi10T, especially for selfies. If it's a rear camera, maybe it will be different. but for selfies it shouldn't be much different So, you can take the selfie test result, to see how the Mi 10 T's front camera is. Also the audio will just be similar between the Mi10T and Mi10T Pro. Overall, as for the Mi10T Pro, you can see that the image quality is really good. Especially in the main censor. Unfortunately, if it used dark places, we don't find that the nightmode was incredible. Helping, but not that great. Not the same as flagships which  the price is above 10 million, of course. But remember, how much this costs. The prices are 5,999 to 6,999, so yes no complain here. This is already good, we can get bokeh too, the sound is really good. OK, let's move on to another test. We can see that Netflix with this, can do L1. Can be full HD, and can HDR10 on Netflix. The Netflix is nice Youtube of course can do HDR too. Then, someone asks about the Task Delay, we try several applications, Real Drum, good Classic Drum, good Drum kit is good in PUBG the Task Delay is also good. Yes, no problem, at least using 4 applications is good Then, for Haptic Feedback, This Mi10T uses X-axis Linear Motor. Similar to Mi10 and Poco F2 Pro. The vibration is accurate, the tactile is really good, smooth and already feasible the typing experience has been equated with a flagship smartphone. this one is very similar to flagship smartphone for a typing feeling. Well, price. We have discussed it many times before for the Mi10T at Rp.5,999,000, it's the official price and Mi10T Pro is at Rp. 6,999,000, also official price So, both come at a very good price. It seems that this price segment in 2020 is dominated by Xiaomi and Poco, it is the same, actually ... Tapi yang menarik adalah di Mi10T sebetulnya, this is the cheapest price you can get for Snapdragon 865 at the end of 2020, Meanwhile, the Mi10T Pro is Snapdragon 865 with 8GB RAM and the cheapest 256GB storage in Indonesia as this video is published in the end of 2020 Yes, of course you must be confused between Poco F2 Pro and Mi10T too, it's really confusing. While Mi10 is indeed in a higher class as it should be, in terms of performance, gaming, everything, both are Snapdragon 865, so you don't have to worry about performance Well this may be a list of comparisons maybe it can be used as your consideration ... Here are some comparisons between Mi 10 T Pro, Poco F2 Pro, and Xiaomi Mi10 here We can see that the Mi10T Pro's screen is 144hz, The Poco F2 Pro screen is 60hz AMOLED, but that's all screen, no punchhole, there is nothing there, all screens because he's using pop-up camera. For dimensions, we can see that it is indeed the Mi10T Pro that is big, bigger even than the Poco F2 Pro, he's thicker also. But he can do Dual-SIM, and then that the speakers are in stereo too For Mi 10 T Pro, that's 8/256 at 6,999 But for Poco, the price a bit higher. Then you can see again for the speakers, for the speakers are also in stereo, meanwhile for Poco, unfortunately it's still mono. The stereo one is also the Xiaomi Mi 10 there. And for the battery, of all he has the largest capacity even though Mi 10 got more battery life rather than the Mi10 T Pro. But the battery life isn't have too much difference For charging, it is clear that the Mi 10 T Pro and Mi 10 are the best with 1 hour 7 minutes and 1 hour 6 minutes, very similar. As for the camera, we can see Mi10T Pro is one of the best, with Mi10 comparable to Mi10T Pro, similar to Mi10T Pro, that's amazing Well, if it's the Mi10T itself,  chances are the camera quality will be similar to the Poco F2 Pro So Mi 10 T Pro is more similar to Mi 10, while Mi 10 T will be similar to Poco F2 Pro from the camera side. Well, the comparison between the Mi10T Pro and Mi10T itself, it's similar huh, if we talked about it earlier, the camera, as you can see that the camera is 180 MP vs 64MP, then the OIS system if Mi 10 T Pro has OIS, while Mi 10 T does not have OIS, maybe because of the sensor Then for RAM and storage options, for Mi10T Pro it is 8/256, while Mi10T is 8/128. Thank you Xiaomi, still give us the 8GB too, even though the price is cheap. And the color choices are the same, Cosmic Black and Lunar Silver, for the weight, there is a slight difference but only 2 grams, I can't feel the difference. Okay, overall, we can see that it might be a big and heavy body maybe not suitable for some people, but with a performance like this, I don't think there is a problem. there is something to be sacrificed for this much performance, and a battery this big. We haven't found a phone that using Snapdragon 865 with 5000 mAh battery, and weight 180 gram, we have never found any. Then, in the absence of a Headphone Jack, maybe for some people it will be a problem, but, many have used TWS too nowaday or bluetooth headphones And if you need to use a plug 3.5mm jack, Xiaomi prepared adapters from Type C to 3.5mm too. Maybe someone complains about a thick chin, not symmetrical at the bottom, yes, but the price, we say again remember the price tag it is impossible to find a symmetrical one at this cheap price? with a processor like this? I think it's hard to find. For me, it doesn't really matter. Maybe the only thing we hope for is an increase in Adaptive Sync, which could be more get to know other games and Benchmarking applications. It will ease us very much! There are some things to point  about this 144hz screen, that must be discussed specifically. Don't be surprised if there is a black shadow around the selfie camera, that's natural because of IPS, it is an IPS screen screen that has layers. So if there's a hole in the middle of the screen, that's it so it's like there's a hallway in the middle and it's normal to see little shadow from the layer. And why black? because the hallway has to be black so it doesn't spread out from the side so the camera doesn't get distracted, of course Well then, about the IPS screen if you guys notice there is a difference in brightness at thin bezel area, on the edges There is a slight difference in brightness which is very reasonable for a IPS screen. We could see it there, but it is very minimal. You have to really look for it and then you can see it. In the beginning, we don't look for it and we have to look very closely to see it. And this is natural for IPS, even for the smartphone that has a fruit logo on using an IPS screen, it happens the same way, it's there too. Well, for the blackness, it's not as black and as thick as a AMOLED screen, although this is the blackness that you can say very good for IPS screens On the other hand, we favored IPS screen for  a minimal risk of burn-in because in general, IPS screen is very rare to be affected by this problem. For those who don't know burn-in, is the trace of the shape on the screen, maybe because over time displayed the same shape, that the shape is printed on screen. Often occurs in AMOLED in a long term usage, meanwhile in IPS screen we rarely see it happen. Meanwhile, even though this is a IPS screen but we have no problem with touch responses, for games, real drums, typing, still smooth, really good The thing is we have find it before, even though it is a AMOLED screen, but in some apps, it made some delay. But when you are concerned  between IPS and AMOLED with Touch is different actually. And here, the touch is really good. The scrolling experience is also incredibly smooth, and some even had games supported high refresh rate So the gaming experience is good. Then the 108MP sensor is also has strengths and weaknesses although there are also many good thing about this The focus area or this sharp space is narrow. This creates natural bokeh. We like it. and the natural bokeh is pretty good and pretty good. But you have to ensure, especially like in this close distance, because of its thin depth of field, the autofocus sometimes likes to miss. So, you have to ensure that this feature works correctly. That's why it's common to use it large sensors. so it's quite normal for a large sensor. The side effect is the image quality better. So the image quality is This 108MP is really good. But it makes it unbalanced too, between the main sensor with ultrawide and macro. Actually not Ultra Wide and its Macros the bad one The Ultra Wide and the macro isn't that bad actually, but the problem is the 108MP (main sensor), which is really good. So it's a bit uneven there. Low Light ability is also pretty good, at 108MP, though this phone is not meant to compete with smartphone 10 million and above, but The Low Light is already really good The menu is super complete even even it was not fully discussed. because the time is really short. Then its pro or manual mode even can apply to video too. So awesome, the sensor is cool, the camera feature is also equipped well. In the end, we can see that the performance is very fast thanks to Snapdragon 865, The battery is also durable, Adaptive Sync also works here looking very durable. Stereo speakers are really nice and quite loud,  and the charging is also fast, Haptic Feedback for typing is great. It feels like a flagship phone. Infrared Blaster can make him a remote control, really nice, NFC also equipped. The price makes you shake your head, the price is very affordable Xiaomi through this Mi series wants to prove that if they can make premium phone so affordable. And this Mi Series still feels premium, even though the price has been cut much more than the other flagships. There are still many new innovations, remain loaded with the latest technology, a high performance, and a cool design, and at this price it is very easy for us to advise you to consider the Mi 10 T and Mi 10 T Pro. if you are eyeing a mid-end class smartphone, but want a high performance. Just imagine, you buy a phone at a mid-end price and get a flagship performance I'm Dedi Irwan from Jagat Review TV 