 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and right now I'm  going to tell you about 5G NR SSB locations,   frequency offsets and different rasters. So as  you may already know in 4G network, in Lte user   equipment stands every time right at the center  of cell bandwidth in order to find a primary   synchronization signal, secondary synchronization  signal, physical broadcast channel and decode   all necessary information for initial access In  5G NR we have multiple numerologies, we can have   different subcarrier spacings and bandwidth parts.  So, it means that SSB location in 5G NR can be different in frequency domain. Now let's  look at my example! Here the 5G cell bandwidth,   here the center of that bandwidth, let's suppose so.  SSB block can be located from the right side, from   the left side or at the center. Actually it doesn't  matter here. There's some offset to carrier center.   So the user equipment should somehow to define SSB block in frequency domain in order to   perform initial access. There are two methods  basically: for non-standalone mode when   Lte eNodeB base station used  as a leg, as a support for 5G NR.   For this mode user equipment receive a special RRC  message with NR-ARFCN number. So, what does it mean?   It means that this is an Absolute Radio Frequency  Channel Number. It means that user equipment   find the exact location of SSB block by reading  RRC message provided from Lte network.   Such methods is very good because  it can help the UE to find SSB block very fast   and perform initial access very fast, as well.  But also one more benefit of reading NR-ARFCN is   the power consumption. A user equipment doesn't  need to scan the full bandwidth with a very   low granularity, because such method has a low  granularity. It can be 5 or 15 or 60kHz.  So, it means that user equipment can  find the exact location of SSB block.   For standalone mode SSB block follows the  special global synchronization channel number (GSCN) raster. So, what does it mean a raster? Raster it  means that there are some special locations   and SSB follows the special frequency location  every time. It means that user equipment should   scan these the full bandwidth in order with  special granularity, with GSCN granularity in   order to find and understand SSB block. Such  method has much larger granularity. There   are different formulas you can find in 3GPP specifications, but it can be about 1MHz granularity. So, you can ask me why for standalone we cannot use   this method? With narrow, with more precise  granularity it would be pretty hard for user   equipment to scan the whole bandwidth! With very narrow granularity it will   require more power consumption and the  initial access would be not so fast. After defining the exact location  of SSB block user equipment wants to find   the Reference Point A. Let's look at my example.  This is a pretty complicated, I know but I'm sure   we will figure out all of this! This is  the whole cell bandwidth, let's assume so.   This is resource grid with 30kHz  subcarrier spacing. This part and this part is   resource grid with 15 kHz subcarrier  spacing. Common Resource Block zero, I mean   the center of common resource block zero is used  to identify the Reference Point A position. So,   this is a zero common resource block, the  first in the whole cell bandwidth. So, it is   used the center of that common resource block used  for identifying Reference Point A position.   In case of SSB has the same subcarrier  spacing it has the same resource grid as the cell. In this case we will have only  reference point A offset. For example   this is SSB block here and there will be only  reference point A. Reference point A can be counted   in resource, in common resource blocks and to our SSB block, for example, if SSB block  would have the same subcarrier spacing like this.   In case of different subcarrier spacing, I mean  in case of SSB has another granularity, another   resource grid like in  my example 15kHz, we   should use another additional  offset it is Kssb offset in order to   adjust our reference point offset  to the another subcarrier spacing.   And as you can see even  commonly resource blocks can be   calculated with another subcarrier  spacing 15 kHz like in my example.   So, basically such reference points can be again  calculated in this way or can be calculated from   signalization from Lte network provided in  RRC messages. It was   short overview of my examples about Reference  Point A offset, about Kssb offset, different   rasters, SSB location. If you like this video you  can like and subscribe to my channel! Goodbye! 