 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and this is my 5G  course on "understanding IoT channel". Today   I'm gonna talk about such new and hype topic  such as network slicing. So, what does it mean to   slice network and for what reason we should  use it in 5G networks. So, as you may already   know in 5G instead of saying network elements  we usually say network functions. Instead of   considering network elements as a dedicated physical servers,   as it used to be in previous generations,  in 3G, in 4G. In 5G we're talking about   virtualization. So, we have only one Hardware  unified platform and based on this platform we   can provide different, different services. We  can kind of logically to have different layers   or different slices for different use cases,  with huge amounts of requirements, with user   and case specific layers. Some requirements  for throughput, latency, security. It's all   about virtualization! We can have different  slices in each part of the network. For Radio Access Network we  can have a gNodeB central unit (CU). This unit   you know, can be a hardware, unified hardware. But we  can configure slices specifically for, let's say,   mobile broadband case, for ultra reliable  low latency communication, for Internet of Things  For example, to configure our cell  with narrow subcarrier spacing (as you may   know from one of my previous video) and we  call it slices. We can have slice is not   only for RAN Network (Radio Access Network). We can configure slices as  a geographical area. We can have a cell-specific   slice or even user-specific slice. But it is, I guess,  theoretically. For now we can have slicing   even for transport network: between RAN and Core  network. For transport network we can configure the same. For example we  can configure transport using soft-slicing   or hard-slicing for eMBB case. For ultra-reliable and low latency   communication, for Internet of Things.  We can have isolated and dedicated layers.  The same we can say about our Core network. Of  course the same different layers and, by the   way, core network can support hundreds of layers,  but user equipment can support   only eight layers simultaneously. So, let's  figure out how exactly UE can select   these slices and how it operates with the core  network. So, user equipment may transmit to   the network Network Slice Selection Assistant  Information (NSSAI). This information consists of such   fields as Slice Service  Type, which is mandatory   and Slice Differentiation field, which  is optional. Based on this information,   based on geographical location, based on some  other capabilities, or network capabilities,   AMF (Access Mobility Function) selects  SMF (Service Management Function) using information from Network Slice Storage Function and Network Repository Function.  Using these information, AMF selects SMF and   UPF (User-Plane Function). So, generally speaking, we have for each slice we have only one AMF and for each   slice and different SMF and UPF functions.   Simply put, one AMF and different slices.   One AMF and different slices, different SMF and UPF. I  guess it is for the reason to operate and manage   access to this slice, to establish session in  each slice with some special requirements for   latency throughput security. Again the  main idea behind network slicing in 5G is to   isolate different traffic cases, different cases  to isolate mobile broadband (just traditional   traffic) from mission-critical traffic in order  to not affect to each other. So, this is the main   ideas that stands behind Network Slicing. And all  of these are possible because in 5G everything   are virtualized. So, it was my short lesson on  5G network. If you like it you can   subscribe to my channel. Stay tuned  with "Understanding IoT channel"! Good bye! 