BusinessGeneralWe are a leading provider of mission critical communication infrastructure, devices, software and services.  Our products and services help government and enterprise customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness and efficiency of their mobile workforce.  Our customers benefit from our global footprint and thought leadership.  We are positioned for success with a presence in over 100 countries, an industry leadership position, an unmatched portfolio of products and services and a strong patent portfolio.We report financial results for two segments:Government: The Government segment includes sales of public safety communications systems, commercial two-way radio systems, devices, and software.  Service revenues included in the Government segment are primarily those associated with the design, installation, maintenance and optimization of equipment for public safety networks.Enterprise: The Enterprise segment includes sales of rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers and tablets, laser/imaging/RFID based data capture products, wireless local area network (“WLAN”) and integrated digital enhanced network (“iDEN”) infrastructure and software.  Service revenues included in the Enterprise segment are primarily maintenance contracts associated with the above products.The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928. The Company changed its name from Motorola, Inc. to Motorola Solutions, Inc. on January 4, 2011.  The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196.Government segmentThe Government segment designs, manufactures, sells, and provides services around voice and data communications systems, devices, security products and applications.  These products and services are sold to a wide range of customers, including government, public safety and first responder agencies as well as commercial customers who operate private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce.  In 2012, this segment's net sales represented approximately 69% of our consolidated net sales.Our Industry, Products, and ServicesOur government, public safety and first responder customers demand mission-critical and interoperable communications to effectively serve and protect the public.  Our commercial customers demand business-critical communications to effectively run their business.  Our customers are facing efficiency challenges which are driving technology transitions and equipment upgrades.  Our sales growth is driven by helping our customers address their communication needs.We offer an extensive portfolio of network infrastructure, devices, applications and services, based on standards including Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials Project 25 (“APCO P-25”), and European Telecommunications Standards Institute (“ETSI”), Terrestrial Trunked Radio (“TETRA”), Digital Mobile Radio (“DMR”) and Digital Private Mobile Radio (“dPMR”), as well as broadband technologies (Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”), and WiFi).  In addition, we offer critical applications and the ability to integrate application platforms in the public safety command center, including voice, 1computer aided dispatch, and multimedia/video.  Our comprehensive service offering in this segment includes mobility consulting, system design and installation, network and device management, and product support.   Our StrategyOur strategy in the Government segment is to partner with our customers to enable them to deliver reliable services efficiently through innovative products and best-in-class services.  Thought leadership and innovation are core to the effective partnership with our customers.  We deliver innovation by:  (i) developing next-generation public safety solutions including devices, public safety LTE systems, and critical command center applications; (ii) leading the ongoing migration to digital products; (iii) managing the potential public/private convergence of 700MHz public safety systems in the U.S. and digital dividend spectrum worldwide; (iv) continuing to be an industry leader in APCO 25 and TETRA standards-based voice and data communication systems around the world; and (v) enhancing our services offering through network and application integration, and network management.  We continue to actively manage our product and services portfolio, investing to expand into attractive and complementary vertical markets to strengthen our customer relationships.  Our CustomersWe address the communication needs of government agencies, state and local public safety and first responder agencies, and commercial and industrial customers.  Our largest customer is the U.S. government (through its various branches and agencies, including the armed services), which represented approximately 10% of this segment's net sales, and 7% of the Company's net sales in 2012.  The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters, because some of our contracts with the U.S. government are long-term.  All contracts with the U.S. government are subject to cancellation at the convenience of the U.S. government. Net sales to customers in North America represented 64% of this segment's net sales in 2012.We believe that there are a large number of government and commercial customers globally who have yet to replace aged analog infrastructure with next generation digital systems, that enables enhanced features and a more efficient use of spectrum.  We also believe government and commercial customers globally have yet to experience the benefits of converged wireless communications, mobility, and efficiencies realized through applications enabled by mobile broadband.  In addition to serving our existing customers, we believe that we have opportunities to pursue profitable growth by extending our reach across new technologies, including public safety LTE systems.Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force, which tends to focus on our largest accounts, and sales through our channel partner program. Our channel partners include distributors, value added resellers and independent software vendors.  Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. With deep expertise about specific customers' operations, resellers are very effective in promoting sales of our product portfolio.  The independent software vendors in our channel partner program offer customized applications that meet specific needs in the vertical market we serve.   Our CompetitionThe markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  Continued evolution in our industry and technology shifts are creating opportunities for established and new competitors.  Key competitive factors include: product performance, product features, product quality, availability and warranty, price, availability of vendor financing, quality and availability of service, company reputation and financial strength, partner community, and relationships with key customers.  Our strong relationships with customers and partners, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance and support position us well for success.We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and devices.  Competitors include: Alcatel-Lucent, Cassidian, Harris, Hytera, Kenwood, Sepura and Tait. Large system integrators are seeking to move further into the government customer space. We and our competitors may serve as subcontractors to large system integrators and are selected based on a number of competitive factors and customer requirements. Where favorable, we may partner with large system integrators to make available our portfolio of advanced mission-critical network infrastructure, devices, applications and services.Several other competitive factors may have an impact on our Government segment, including: evolving developments in the 700 MHz band, increasing encroachment by broadband and IP solution providers, and new low-tier vendors. As demand for fully integrated voice, data, and broadband systems continue, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and telecommunications equipment providers.2Enterprise segmentThe Enterprise segment designs, manufactures, sells and provides services around rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers, including tablets, data capture devices, security products and applications, and WLAN and iDEN infrastructure.  These are sold to a wide range of enterprise customers, including those in retail, hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution centers, energy and utilities, education and healthcare.  In 2012, this segment's net sales represented approximately 31% of our consolidated net sales.Our Industry, Products and ServicesOur enterprise customers are continuously looking to improve their operational efficiency as well as to increase their top line through superior customer service. We believe that long-term growth opportunities exist within the Enterprise segment, as the global workforce continues to become more mobile and enterprise customers continue to focus on improving their workforce efficiency and productivity.  Our sales growth is driven by helping our customers mobilize their workforce and improve their customer service. We offer a comprehensive portfolio of enterprise grade solutions, including devices, infrastructure, applications and services.  These include rugged mobile computers and tablets, laser/imager/RFID based data capture devices and kiosks, WLAN switches, controllers and access points, network and device management software, network and device security software, voice-based integrated solutions, and systems based on iDEN technology.  Our service offerings in this segment have been primarily related to product support.  However, we are expanding our services offerings to also include network integration and network and device management, as well as mobility consulting.  Our StrategyOur strategy in the Enterprise segment is to deliver the next generation of enterprise mobility to empower the mobile worker, enable real-time asset visibility and engage the smart consumer.  We have identified key areas of innovation that will enable successful implementation of this strategy.  These include advanced devices, enhanced information capture and analysis, adaptive networking solutions, integrated voice and data communications, applications and services.  We are expanding our devices portfolio to address the needs of an increasingly mobile workforce.  Our products and services are designed to improve our customers' operations through real-time asset visibility and integrated/adaptive communications networking solutions.  Our portfolio of wireless infrastructure and device products is complemented by applications and services, which are designed to help our customers achieve their business objectives.  We are seeking to further expand our services offerings over the lifecycle of these products.Our CustomersWe address the communication and data capture needs of enterprise customers including those in retail, hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution centers, energy and utilities, education and healthcare.  These customers operate a large and diverse mobile workforce and are continuously focused on improving their operations through greater employee efficiency, greater asset visibility and superior customer service.  Our product and services portfolio delivers attractive return on technology investment for our customers.  In addition to serving our existing customers, we believe that we have opportunities to pursue profitable growth by extending our reach across new vertical markets.Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force and sales through our channel partner program.  Our channel partners include distributors, value added resellers and independent software vendors.  Resellers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force.  With deep expertise about specific customers' operations, resellers are very effective in promoting sales of our product portfolio.  The independent software vendors in our channel partner program offer customized applications that meet specific needs in each vertical market we serve.  Our Enterprise segment utilizes our channel partners more extensively than our Government segment, as the products of this segment generally support a broad range of applications. Our CompetitionThe markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  Economic pressure, growth of mobile workers worldwide, industry consolidation, business model evolution and technology shifts are creating opportunities for established and new competitors.  Key competitive factors include product and services portfolio breadth, product performance, product and service availability and warranty, product and service quality, strength of company relationships with customers and partners, and company reputation.  Our strong relationships with customers and partners, strong brand and history of innovation, product portfolio breadth, strong position in data capture technologies, superior product design and performance, evolving services offerings and business model flexibility position us well for success.  We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including present manufacturers of laser/imager/RFID based data capture devices, optical instruments, notebook computers and tablets, smart phones, cordless phones, and cellular/WLAN/wired infrastructure equipment.  Competitors include: Apple, Aruba, Bluebird, Cisco, Datalogic, HP, Honeywell, Intermec, Panasonic, and Samsung.3Other InformationBacklogDuring 2012, we changed our methodology for reporting backlog. Prior to the first quarter of 2012, we excluded from backlog service orders such as maintenance and extended warranty contracts. Additionally, certain product and system installation labor orders that were for delivery beyond a certain time frame, typically 18 months, were excluded from backlog. Our new methodology now includes all service, product, and system installation orders that have been received, and are believed to be firm.The Company’s backlog, using our new methodology for both years, as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 was as follows: December 31(In millions)2012 2011Government$4,937 $4,426Enterprise782 875 $5,719 $5,301Approximately 40% of the Government backlog and 85% of the Enterprise backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2013.  The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.  Research and Development    We participate in very competitive industries with constant changes in technology. Throughout our history, we have relied, and continue to rely, primarily on our research and development (“R&D”) programs for the development of new products, and on our production engineering capabilities for the improvement of existing products. We supplement our internal R&D spending through activities with joint development and manufacturing partners. Management believes, looking forward, that our commitment to R&D programs should allow us to remain competitive.R&D expenditures relating to new product development or product improvement were $1.1 billion in 2012, compared to $1.0 billion in 2011 and in 2010. We continue to believe that a strong commitment to R&D is required to drive long-term growth. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 7,000 professional employees engaged in such R&D activities.Payment TermsPayment terms vary worldwide, depending on the arrangement. Generally, contract payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and typically do not exceed 90 days in regions outside of North America. A portion of the contracts within our Government segment include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestone.We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price.Regulatory Matters The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by governmental agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union (“ITU”).  We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or handheld devices. Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum.  The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities, and consequently, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed. As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television  spectrum. In the U.S., pursuant to federal legislation, analog television stations ceased operation in the broadcast television 4spectrum on June 12, 2009. As a result of this transition, 108 MHz of spectrum historically used for broadcast television,  known as the 700MHz band, is being redeveloped and deployed for new uses (the so-called “digital dividend” spectrum), including broadband and narrowband wireless communications.  Now that the 700 MHz band spectrum is open nationwide, FCC records indicate that so far over 170 public safety agencies throughout over 30 states have been deploying narrowband operations at 700 MHz and others are in the planning stages. Thirty-four MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band is now allocated  to support new public safety narrowband and broadband communications systems.  This includes 24 MHz of spectrum previously allocated by the FCC and an additional ten MHz of spectrum (the “D block”) allocated in February 2012.  This latter ten MHz allocation is the result of Congressional action responding to public safety requests for additional broadband spectrum.   The resulting law, Public Law 112-96 also identified up to $7 billion in funding for the nationwide public safety broadband network with $2 billion of that available near-term.  Pursuant to this law, a governance structure and entity known as the First Responder Network Authority ("FirstNet") was established in August 2012 to manage deployment and operation of the network.  Additional work, currently ongoing in FirstNet, is required to enable deployment of the nationwide public safety broadband network.  As a result of the legislation and establishment of FirstNet, the FCC cancelled 21 conditional waiver grants previously issued to public safety agencies to deploy 700 MHz broadband systems and instead established a new process to issue special temporary authorizations ("STAs”) for early deployments. This required public safety entities to apply for early deployment using the new process, and required that they be able to substantiate progress toward deployment.  This creates a higher standard than that used for the waivers, potentially affecting several of our customers.   In September 2012, one such customer, the State of Texas received an STA for deployment of 14 broadband sites in the Harris County area around Houston, and we are in the process of implementing that broadband system.  FirstNet is considering the potential for additional early deployments, some by other of our customers, such as the State of Mississippi.  Such early deployments would help speed interoperable broadband capabilities for first responders and the experience gained regarding public safety broadband operation should benefit FirstNet in developing and implementing its plan to deploy the nationwide network.  The planned implementation of a nationwide public safety network and any additional early deployments may also create opportunities for our broadband solutions.  In March, 2012, Canada released a decision to allocate ten MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band for public safety broadband.  Subsequently, in August 2012, Canada proposed that an additional and adjacent ten MHz also be allocated to public safety for broadband use.  A decision on that additional ten MHz of spectrum is expected in 2013.  If adopted, this would harmonize Canada's 700 MHz band plan with that in the U.S.Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference ("WRC") was held in Geneva during the first quarter of 2012.  During this conference, leaders from United Nations member countries considered a number of initiatives, including whether to allocate additional spectrum for commercial broadband use as well as whether to allocate spectrum dedicated for public safety broadband.  The WRC agreed to consider spectrum for public safety broadband.  Studies are underway to assess whether and how much spectrum is needed  and to develop recommendations on where in the spectrum range the spectrum should be allocated (taking into account regional and global harmonization to the extent practicable).  The issue made it onto the agenda for the next WRC in 2015.  The result could be future allocations for dedicated broadband spectrum for public safety which will provide opportunities for us in the future.  In addition, certain countries already have spectrum landscapes that would permit country administrations to allocate public safety spectrum today.  A WRC initiative can spur individual countries to act sooner, which may also create opportunities for our broadband solutions in the nearer term.Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. Intellectual Property MattersPatent protection is extremely important to our operations. We have an extensive U.S. and international portfolio of patents relating to our products, systems and technologies, including research developments in radio frequency technology and circuits, wireless network technologies, over-the-air protocols, mission critical two-way radio communications and advanced data capture. We have also filed additional patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, as well as in foreign patent offices.We license some of our patents to third-parties, but this revenue is not significant. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year to year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to licenses.  In addition, Motorola Solutions has a royalty free license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses and will continue to enjoy the benefit of that license even with the acquisition of Motorola Mobility by Google.  5We actively participate in the development of standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. Our patents are used in various standards including APCO P-25, ETSI, TETRA, DMR and dPMR.  We offer licenses to those patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. Notwithstanding the transfer of patents to Motorola Mobility, the expiration of certain patents and the potential for increased competition for some of our products in the future, we believe that our patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage for future technologies. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or a few patents. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technical leadership and marketing abilities. We do not rely primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; however, we will enforce our intellectual property rights in certain technologies when attempts to negotiate mutually agreeable licenses are not successful. Patents and TrademarksWe seek to obtain patents and trademarks to protect our proprietary position whenever possible and practical. As of December 31, 2012, we owned approximately 6,354 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2012, we and our wholly owned subsidiaries had approximately 2,648 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. These foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2012, we and our wholly owned subsidiaries were granted 340 U.S. patents and 372 patents in other countries.  We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives and formatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility, which is currently owned by Google.Inventory, Raw Materials, Right of Return and SeasonalityOur practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers’ delivery requirements in a manner consistent with industry standards. We provide custom products which require the stocking of inventories and large varieties of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent suppliers’ product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle. Availability of materials and components required is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect our results of operations. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or an increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact our financial results.Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. In addition, the cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources or a significant cost increase could affect our financial results.Generally, our contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions; however, certain distributor partners within the commercial enterprise markets do maintain limited stock rotation rights.  Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.Environmental Quality    During 2012, compliance with U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.Employees    At December 31, 2012, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 22,000 employees, compared to 23,000 employees at December 31, 2011. Financial Information About Geographic Areas    The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies” and Note 12, “Information by Segment and Geographic Region” of Part II, 