 Our next presenter is Professor Kris Bandyopadhyay from the department of Natural Sciences . Chris is a (Dept.) Professor of Chemistry and he's going to talk to you about nanoparticle as catalyst, cancer remediation, and biosensor. So your going to tell me when to start. Right. Okay. All right. Good morning, it's great to be here. So I have you will see a slides are a little busy but I will direct you towards you know whatever we need to focus. So I put that three project I was trying to do it's bit ambitious. Nanoparticle assembly, biosensor and pour shell nanoparticles. So we're going to see what are the things so that unified part here is nanoparticles. So we are going to say see what is actually nano all about. So nano is a 1 billion. It's a 1 billionth of a meter, it's a human hair, you can see 5,000 nanometer across. Smallest things we can visible is a 10,000 nanometer across. And the nanoscience is basically the study of anything in between 1-200 nanometer and the application of nano structures are called nanotechnology. So and then what happened once you go in that small regime the material started behaving in different way. Sometimes it is actually there are a number of opportunities in that regime and so you can have unique electrical optical magnetic and other properties and there are also less analyte you need more reaction site so you can generate highly sensitive devices out of this. Alright. So then this is also a science which is actually an interdisciplinary. It has been you know brought from  different discipline chemistry ranging from chemistry, material science, engineering, physics and so on. Now when you see this nanoparticle generated mostly it is in pre synthesized in in solution but that is not going to see the potential impact. You have to organize this in a, in a fashion that you can use as a device. Like for example that Q led that you see expensive from Samsung those are likely no devices that are they're organized. So we need to organize in a one-dimensional, two-dimensional or three-dimensional fashion. Our focus is going to be two dimension and going forward we are going to use those two-dimensional nanoparticle assemblies for catalysis, nano catalyst, then we are going to see generating things on a spherical surface for cancer remediation in heat absorber and then we are going to look at the biosensor. So this is like again I said business slides what we do here in terms of. So we take a surface, we functionalize with some positive charge layer with this molecule and hook up an ion and then change it that ion to that specific nanoparticle. So you can see here we have generated this is atomic force microscopy things you can see in nano scale there are special microscope. I don't have time actually to explain but you will see some of the the microscope that we can see it's a it's a different from optical microscope and you generate these gold nanoparticle and you can see a surface becoming red in color. Here it's a silver nano particle and the catalyst is what we are going to use this fuel cell we call direct alcohol fuel cell. These are generated to have alternate power source for handheld you know small devices. So this we are going to use as a catalyst and you can see we know that any battery has anode and cathode right. So anode we have this oxidation, so methanol I just give you an example methanol is oxidized to CO2 and cathode it's the oxygen is reduced to hydrogen, water and this is the overall reaction I just show you that one of the earlier though Shiva has this kind of fuel cell so our goal is to come up with this oxidation reaction. We have also generated palladium nanoparticle which can use for large you know use for oxidation of longer chain alcohol not just methanol because sometimes methanol is, is toxic. Here you can see there's a you know like a nice diagram what it actually tells you that it's these peaks are oxidation. So they are all active catalyst the only thing which you have to identify the forward current versus back the the reverse current these values are going to tell you how good this catalyst is so you can see these lower panel for ethylene, glycol and blister all palladium is actually a very good catalyst. Okay. Now the interesting part, this is the core shell structure. Now why I put these things here M&M and chocolate-covered pretzel. Now the question is when you eat M&M it's a crunchy and chocolate inside right it gives you a different flavor. Like for example the the the chocolate pro they're salty and chocolate so we like it right it's a unique property. Same way when you have something not conducting with coated with something conducting it gives you a great material properties. That's exactly what happened see SIO2 coated with gold it's a dielectric and gold, and it actually absorbs depending on the shell thickness. In the IR range what is the reason if you have those kind of material it can actually absorb radiation from the IR range and gets heated up and that can be used for destroying cancer cell. So we are we have made this again following the same procedure what we have I have shown you that gold we know we adsorb this is not a flat surface it's a sphere and we generate we put a polymer and then you know adsorbed a UCL four and then that smooth sphere become a hairy ball and then you the hairy ball gets closed you have a the the whole surface is covered. Same way we can have the palladium shell. So here is the thing, this is another microscope called transmission electron microscope. We have it here see here this smooth becomes the hairy ball and then it becomes a flow cell and this is the absorption that we are talking about in the iron range. This is also as you use the 808 laser you can see that there is a you know that the change in the temperature from 25 room temperature the Nano Shell goats get get into 4 typically in no time like 10 minutes and that is been used for 2 minutes. That is being used for the that the killing of the cancer cell and I forgot to mention that we had an impute project with Professor Colin Kondapalli and Bentley from engineering. They are we are also involved in, in doing this for quite a while. This is the palladium shell palladium nanoparticle again. This is a palladium seed here seed means those hairy things that the little things and then it we can actually change the thickness of this like how much chocolate you want we can we can do that. Here is the thing the last part is the bioelectronics. So when you have any analytes that you want to you know analyze you have to put it in on a surface. Then the surface or whatever the device what about the interaction happen you get an electronic signal resistance change may be current change those things right so here we are going to sense dopamine and why dopamine is important definitely these are the you know one of the neurotransmitter and these are these are the reason why you have to have that dopamine, it's a small molecule. So where we are going to look at the change in current or potential. Here we generate same way palladium nanoparticle this is atomic force microscope you see the size mean size is around seven nanometer and this is where we do current versus potential plot this is like a jargon. You know differential pulse voltammetry this is one of the electrochemical technique that we use and what it happens see from 2.5 micro molar means as the concentration is increasing that dopamine concentration is increasing in solution the current is increasing so that way we can sense we can actually go really really down low even nano molar not even micro molar and also here we can do it in presence of ascorbic acid which is one of the component present in in the in the human body along with dopamine so we need to see those interference. So I want to also recognize this part my student these are some of my you know earlier student. They have been, some of them, have already graduated like Amy and Elisa these are in the graduate school. This is one of the 2010 San Francisco ACS meeting and now for the recent one we have fall a ACS meeting here a group and you know the fall 2018 ACS meeting. Also I have some of my student here also whose picture is not here so they are the one who actually made these things happen. You know I go you know I scribble things I hand wave then things happen, right. Also Carolyn knows those because I keep sending the request for student travel, so she knows all of these students. Finally, finally without this nothing can be happened so I really thank the the the funding agencies for my supporting research and thank you all for your your attention. 