 - How far would go to fine tune your dating game? So there's a dating coach out there who's gone so far as to creating virtual reality dating app to help you become the stallion you always wanted to be. I don't know. Drew, you're a stallion. (neighs) (laughs) (audience applause) I'm not even sure what the term means; but joining us via Skype from Miami Beach, Florida is Magic Leone, the co-creator behind the one virtual reality dating app. How does this work? I'm curious. - Basically, you put on your glasses and the minute you do that, you step into a virtual world and there are a set of lessons, demonstrations and exercises that you use so next time you go out, you know exactly how to approach a woman and generate an attraction, successfully. - So, a video game of sorts. - Correct. - Walk us through a scenario because I'm curious. There's obviously a fine line in terms of the types of behaviors and things, getting physical in this virtual reality world. How does it work? - How it goes is that it goes from handshaking, when it comes to touching, to at the most kissing; but what we're teaching is to gauge a woman's response and then take the next actions. For example, a handshake. You know a guy could go out, a guy can come in and just offer you a finger, and say, "Hey, my name's Magic," and that's when the girl thinks. So we can teach them the proper way of introducing yourself, hold your hand gently, warmly, make eye contact, have a good smile. If she likes you when she's perhaps coming close to you, going the next level, then you can maybe get a little more close, touch her hair. Again reciprocate, if she's liking it, then you can go for it. To think that we teach them the progression based on the feedback from women. - And I believe it's just a little bit of controversy as well because at least in the first version of this app, the women were called targets. Is that correct? - Yes, and that was an innocent mistake. And the reason it was was in the video game world, you use words like target because the gamers understand that. And we didn't recognize it at the time, that this could be a problem. The minute we recognized that, we changed it but that was a really innocent mistake. - Well, Magic, thank you so much for sharing with us. We really appreciate it. (audience applause) - Once again, I think we're targeting younger people who love the video games. - But again, going back to, not to harp on the adolescents and the teenagers, but I'm thinking about my son. He's still only seven but when he's a teenager, I don't know how comfortable I feel . - I don't feel comfortable at all. My daughter, a medical student from UCLA, is in her 20s, she dates, and I don't wanna think of her as a target. - Right. Exactly, I have an issue with that. You know, unless it's reciprocal and then I also could go after my target. - Adolescents are learning how to date through alcohol induced television, virtual reality dating apps. It's a little bit of a scary time because if you had to do, for me, if you have to use a virtual reality app to learn how to communicate with a member of the opposite sex. That's not ideal. That's the whole idea of interacting with one another in real life and hopefully, you have friends and others who you can have conversations with. - Unfortunately, those days are over. Everybody meets on the internet. - There is something to be said for actual interaction and learning how to engage with people in person and the whole idea of learning and modeling your behavior on reality TV or on apps and not actually going out and socializing, I think is a little bit troublesome. Certainly, as a mom, this sort of freaks me out. What are these kids turning into? - I would be, if I'm a child or adolescent, and I use one of these virtual reality apps, I would be so nervous when the real thing came to be because life is not an app. Life is not do anything, be happy. - That's not like the game, I must've touched the wrong spot. Oh no. Not where I wanna go. - Oh no, I didn't mean to touch. - I'm sorry, can I start over again? (makes buzzer sound) - Game over. - [Sonia] That's the problem. - It seems a bit robotic but hey, whatever you needed to do. 