 Virtual reality to me is  the only reality.  I remember the first time I tried it. I thought to myself, "Wow! I'm never gonna be bored again."  [Electronic music] 17 hours of combat a day. A hundred kills. About 8-10 deaths.  Five senses support. 360° immersion. Enhanced pain.  I wake up, check on my rankings and go straight to the battlefield. My life of line is simple. I built there. Sleep there. The bathroom's there and that's it. I haven't left this house in quite a few years. &lt;electronic music I had trouble with the law in the past. With VR I feel like I can express myself. express my anger in a way that's not dangerous. I feel like I can be myself and not go to jail for it. [Electronic music] My job is to provide psychological assistance in VR dependant neighbourhoods. To be honest, they don't seem to manifest any interest in being a part of society and looking at their present conditions, I don't think they would have a place either. I don't feel comfortable around people. I don't really know what I should say or...or do.  Gameplay is... it's just simpler. There's no people just...just targets -- Another man down. 1-3? Let's try to get our formation back. There's another stampede coming. -- Roger that! [Dramatic music, scary monster sounds] -- Six-Five, we're moving southwest, over?  November, is there a reason you're standing there? What are you looking at? -- November: Just go without me. -- Roger that. -- Let's keep moving steady. We should be approaching our target any second now. Soldier over radio: What the hell are you doing? Stop it! You're shooting into thin air! November, are you-- [radio becomes distorted] [sound of distant thunder] [ominous orchestral big budget sci-fi music] [panicked breathing]  Solider: Who are you? Hey! Heyyy! Radio soldier 1: What's wrong with you soldier? Who the hell are you talking to? Radio soldier 2: Five-five, I don't know what his problem is, but he's standing there pretty useless. Radio Soldier 1: Just keep on the good channel, ladies. I got another gun in sight. And...fire! [Sound of machine-gun fire] [dramatic orchestral war music] [digital distortion sounds]  Life of a flyer man, it's... too slow. Nothing happens. It's too quiet. Boring. It's lonely. It's depressing. I don't like it. I want it to be as intense as possible. As real... as possible. Radio voice: Attention! I got a ghost about four minutes from your location. Prepare for frontal assault. Have your ammunition ready. [dramatic orchestral music]  [string and electronic music]    