 Here at Falcon's Creative Group, we are so excited to share with you that we are developing virtual reality and augmented reality content. We have an amazing team that's postured to develop that content for you. And we'd like to share with you a little bit about the history of how we got started in this realm. From day one in all of our designs and development projects, we always put the story first and put guests in the middle of the story and we're always looking for new techniques and new ways to do that. VR and AR is the new frontier. One advantage to the media production team is the incredible depth that they have because they've recruited the top talent from Hollywood visual effects, all these great companies that have produced the top images in the world. Integrating into VR, we already have many years of experience creating that type of content. It's just a new delivery mechanism. Coming from the journey of experiencing and creating 360 3D dome experiences with 3D glasses. To now see how relevant the VR is. Even I put on the HMD's and am blown away by the escapism that's there. But what we do to take that to a larger group, is where we're quite excited to share that logic. Having the ability to try all of the different platforms and finding out what works and what doesn't and what limitation may be garnered if we went with this platform. It's really important to us because then we can plan around how our story is going to play out on a particular platform if we have certain limitations. We understand and forecast what the final guest experience will be so we can mitigate some of the risks and challenges that are involved whether it may be with motion-sickness, hygiene issues, all these things are things we're thinking about before we get into production. Before some of the constraints from the physical world, we would have to let it play out as an experience. But ultimately everyone had the same experience. What this introduces is the same emotional arcs and immersion factor but now the resolution of change can happen from vehicle to vehicle or passenger to passenger. Which is really quite special. It's already immersive enough, VR you're in there you can see the world already. But implementing other senses with motion, with sounds or smells just makes it even more immersive. One of the things I know as we've gone through our R&D process is when I put on an HMD I'm also, even though I'm in a new virtual world, I'm cut off from the real world. That's why AR is quite appealing to us as a beta tester for the Microsoft HoloLense. It's exciting for us to start utilizing that tool and see how the real world still plays a part of telling the story as well as an enhanced layer. MR or Mixed Reality potentially like VR with a camera that allows you to see real world input of data. So it's almost AR in a different way because now you're capturing information of the real world in real time. So these are kind of the things that we're implementing on top of our own immersive experiences where it enhances the indivuality of each player or each experience within this unique technology. 