 Welcome to sunny Claremont, California here at Pomona College. I'm Jack, I'm a junior here and a neuroscience major. Hi I'm Harini, I'm a sophomore majoring in computer science and we're here to give you a tour of Pomona College. Welcome to the iconic Marston Quad where students love to come and relax, read a book, study, have a quick pickup game and much, much more. Over behind us is Big Bridges which is the largest performing arts space on the 5C's and we've had a lot of cool speakers come here to give talks. And it's always so much fun to go and listen to what they have to say. Pomona is a liberal arts college where students can choose from 48 different majors. We're also members of the Claremont consortium, so students can take classes at any of the other 4 liberal arts colleges, located within walking distance from Pomona. Our student to faculty ratio is 8:1 and the average class size is 15 students. Right now, we're in Frary on North Campus, one of the three dining halls on Pomona's campus that serves a variety of healthy and sustainable food. Students also have the option of eating at any of the other dining halls in the Consortium. Frank dining hall on South Campus is a favorite of first-years with small communal tables. Oldenborg dining hall, also on South Campus, is known for having language tables where native-speaking language residents hold language classes in all languages across the globe. This is a typical first-year Pomona dorm room. It is in Harwood Court on South Campus. It is a single which 30% of all first-years get to live in and then 70% of all rooms on campus are in fact singles as well. One of the unique parts of Pomona's dorm life is that first-years get put into these groups called sponsor groups which are groups of 10-20 first-years who all live together who two sophomore sponsors. The sponsors are just there to make sure that everyone is okay and to give advice and basically just to be a mentor for first-years. Here we are at a Sagehen basketball game. Athletic events are one of the numerous ways students come together to support one another. Pomona joins with Pitzer College for its athletic program. There are 21 varsity teams as well as club and intramural sports. This is the Smith Campus Center or SCC for short. Behind you, you'll see the Coop Fountain which is one of our cafes here on campus. Besides fine dining, the SCC also hosts the Associate Students of Pomona College or ASPC for short. The ASPC will fund trips into LA, they fund all the clubs here on campus, and they also host a lot of really fun events for students. Additionally, the SCC also hosts the Writing Center and Quantitative Skills Center which are two incredible academic resources for students here. Along with all the resources in the SCC, we also have a Career Development Office where students can go to get help applying for internships and jobs. The staff there are really nice and really helpful, and can help with reviewing cover letters and resumes, interview prep and can even take professional headshots for Linked In profiles. We finish our tour here on the steps of Carnegie. Every year during Orientation the incoming class takes a group picture right here on these steps before starting their college experience. Thanks for coming along on our virtual tour of campus. If you want to learn more please check us out at pomona.edu. Thanks for visiting! 