 *High-five* Top of the morning to ya laddies! My name is Jacksepticeye and welcome to a... HTC Vive game Called V robot. Well, the R in Robot is capitalized so it's VR-obot. That's what I'm going to call it. So I don't really know what the game is, as with most of these HTC Vive games I just go searching for them, and then I find a whole bunch of them on Steam and then I end up playing them because they look fucking ridiculous. This one looks like I'm a giant robot with fucking giant bastard hands and I get to Destroy Cities. That's all I need to know, that's all that needs to be prefaced with this, I have seen that I'm able to make my own tornadoes, destroy cities- THAT'S a big Earth! (Singing) A whole new wooorld!~ Okay, whatever. What're we doin'? I wanna actually get into stuff. Something went wrong and people had to leave their homes because robots and driverless cards flooded the entire planet. Humans built a giant robot to reclaim their cities. There's some sort of irony in that! Robots and driverless cars flooded the entire planet so how do we defeat the the robots and giant- erm- robots and cars? By building more robots! What if the world becomes overflooded with giant robots and giant driverless cars? Did you ever think about that? I don't think you did. Woahhh! Okay.... Now I'm gigantic, finally! I'm not the tiny little person. Woah, that's cute! Get max score in 1:30... Okay, I don't know what that is, but I just want to look around for a second. That and- I'm kinda getting into playin'- It's funny how I said playin', and the plane flew by. I'm getting into playing games More that have like, this gigantic scale to them It's so bizarre to see everything super tiny. Come here! Okay, what do we do? Do I just destroy things? That's not how a road works!!! Let's go right into the middle of the city. Okay those are some niice clouds! It'd be a shame if someone... DESTROYED SHIT! Yes! This is what I wanted! I wanna be a fuckin' beast! I wanna destroy everything! I wanna be Godzilla! You ever seen Godzilla, those movies? Godzilla and his friends? Can I not grab the cars? - I can! (*Throws a car*) Huah!! Yes, woah! Oh god, what's happened? What did I do? I didn't even do those ones! Okay I don't know why some of 'em are flashing What does that mean? I dunno but I'm destroying everything and it's fuckin amazing! Okay, you're a big bitch.. Yes, the whole thing collapsed! Fuck yeah, this is amazing! I could do with some more sound effects, though. Ow!! Fuck! Ow, god aw I smacked my mic, fuck! Ah, can you still hear me? Is that sound absolutely dreadful? I imagine so. I'm just gonna move the mic back a small bit. Can you still hear me?TEST! Of course you can, you can fucking hear me in other countries without even having headphones on. Right, okay! Uhm, I didn't do that! "Hold the door" Awwww, Hodor. Okay, hold the door... Is this how I exit?? Okay, I actually have to hold the door. Thanks, got it, got it, get it! *the game says "Tractor Beam Unlocked"* Oh YEAHHH! So..... You guys saw me use my fists, you saw me, Fists of Fury Jacksepticeye as I'm formerly known as, but you haven't seen Shit yet boy!! Hoo! Come here you fucking plane! Hahah. Oh my fucking god! *Laughing* That's fucking incredible! I just wanna sit here and fire buildings at other buildings. Ohhh! I see what I'm doing okay, the game's kinda lagging a small bit now, That's fine, that's fine, I wouldn't expect anything less -ha!- from a game That's lettin' me destroy everything!! Come 'ere! Woosh! Fuck yeah, this! is! amazing! Destroy everything! Fuck it all up! Okay, there's a highscore thing here, I think uhmm WHOOSH! Okay there's some bits of shit falling everywhere. This is so cool! I feel like a beast! Poosh! Aw man, can I pick up the people? I can pick up their shit tiny little cars. But I wanna pick up the people! Hello, tiny man! Greetings! Oh yeah, 'cause you're all tiny robot people, I see... Tiny robot people, is that an oxymoron? Okay, anything else I can destroy? Yes! I see a flashy-doo! Come here, ha! I wanna actually smash 'em with my hand That feels good, makes me feel like a big boy! Big boy in town, destroying everything! *Gasps* Uh... uhhh. Oh fuck! Yes my dude! This is awesome! I know now that I'm not gonna get the high score because all I'm doing is destroying everything... and I have an amazing score Last time I got 7 thousand, now I'm at 19K. I'm sorry, 20K! *laughs* Oh, I finished! 20280! Destroy Gigabit. Did I do it? Am I a baby? (??) God, I'm in the fuckin' door now That was fun. Okay bye! Bye giant statue! I like that guy. He was cool. What did I unlock? Did I unlock anything? Aw man, I just unlocked it all, I didn't get a new power. I will soon, don't fuckin' worry about it! Come here, plane! Where'd that plane go? Come here! Come here! Fuckin' planes.. Who do they think they are, flying all about the place? Going against nature and what was deemed necessary for people to do. Oh what's playing?? Simple Western coming soon. You're gonna have to try again. Yeahhh Okay.. I wanna smash things with my hands again, but this is how I get the high score Okay let's go over here and- POW! Okay, am I close to the wall? I feel like I'm close to the wall. I don't wanna fucking smack my hand on this shit again! Pow! Yes, over here uh, Right here and- I didn't mean to grab that! I forgot that this one doesn't have a fist. Yes! Okay, bye! Aw man, I wanted to fire it! Come here, giant building! Come here, lighthouse! Wapoosh! *laughs* I feel like a GOD! I feel like a god church right now. *Grabs and throws something* Whoosh! Yess, fuck yes! So good so good. I love it. I love it - lemme just- oh! Just my hands this time? No actual thing? Ohh-kay! Okay! I got this! *Grunts* Bah! Yes! I'm afraid of smackin' shit now. Can I make the bridge go down? No, I'm just punching the floor! *Laughs* Okay, go over here. Fuckin' die! Beast! I feel like a child. I feel like a child that just gets to live out his dreams and smash shit around. You know when you played with your friends and you pretended that you were some sorta like big giant beast- Hello? Fuck you! No one cares about your grandfather, you're a robot, you don't have grandparents! So this is what that's like? Except instead of having to tell your friends exactly what you're doing, being like "I destroyed that building, I destroyed that building real good!" You can just fuckin' do it! Man, imagine being a kid these days and havin' a VR headset to play with. There was never anything like this when I was growing up, I barely even had the internet! You youngin's these days. You have no idea!! Okay, there's special things you can hit I think for higher scores, but I am just gonna stand in the middle of everything and smash! Smash! Smash! Smash everything all around me! Okay over here, Here's a good one. Yes! Now where's the next good ones? Show me! Give it to my eyes! Coming for you, bitch! Okay... There we go. I can't smack too hard sometimes even though I love to, because I'm full of energy! Let's do this! Come here, come here, ahhhh move, POW!! Let's destroy everything, who gives a shit what the next ones are. Come on, babe, let me smash you want some fuk?? I'll show you some fuk! Aw, I finished. Come here, plane! Huh! Ah, so close! Fuck! Got it this time. Son of a bitch! These planes think they own the place. Yeah!!! *laughs* Okay, hold on I'm comin! I think I get a new weapon next. I don't wanna alarm you guys, butttt Uh "Tornado anchor unlocked" yeah, cry about it all you want, but I got this action! YEAHHHHH! Oh my God, go my tornado baby! Destroy everything! Man this is easy! All you have to do is point it and it kills everything! I'm gonna get a highscore! What are you gonna get? Nothin' because you SUCK! Fuck yeahh! Go tornado! Kill everybody! This is fuckin amazing! *Laughs* Oh my god, I love it, it's just so over the top! There's no savior from this fuckin' thing! You just fire and it goes! Okay, for the tiny little village, Aww look, it would be such a shame if someone destroyed (??) Oh yes, you cannot have back your BBQ no more I think! Here we go, dude. Nothing stands in my way. I am the bringer. I'm the keeper of death! Fuckin christ! Okay that's enough! That's enough, I wanna do one now!Are we still going, we're still good? Okay we're still good being a Giant destruction robot... is hard sometimes! Also, why am I doing this? Get the ferris wheel, yeahhh! Wasn't my idea supposed to be that I saved the people's Earth from the driverless cars and the robots and all that shit? Doesn't seem like I saved much. Okay, mister tornado is on his way back, but I wanted to destroy all the shit over here first. What's my score? 31 thousand. oh, you guys didn't stand a chance! Okay get that one over there, That's a pretty good ss- a pretty good one! Oh fuckin je- Get away from me! That one is super fun, but it's too fuckin overpowered! You can't do anything with that. Well, I can do everything with that, that's the problem. Fuck you! Niice, I like when I get to smash the shit on my own, that makes me feel like a big boy! you fuckin' piece of shit! Everybody should fear me! Cause I'm awesome! Especially the blinking buildings! Fuck your bridge! You wanna go to work? There's no work in the apocalypse, bitch!! Oh wait, they're all driverless cars, so it doesn't really matter, I guess that's that point. That's the game's way of saying, hey, you're not allowed to kill people! Oh I am strong! I am destruction! I am DEATH! Excuse me !! Do you guys know the way to uh, DEATH?! Arch the triumph, the only triumph here is ME! Eh, I've had better. Hey my tractor beam buddy's back! Can I grab a plane? Hello? How's it going? Are you good? Get this other plane.. Aw I missed. You.. get.. that plane! Oh hey, I thought you were gonna fly, I guess I was mistaken for thinking that you were any good for anything! Oh, this is like a big fuckin Like section of New York or something. I got that building. Oh yeah, oh yeah! Watching the big buildings get destroyed is fuckin cool! Okay, going over here, hello tiny robot people! Hello? That building just disintegrated before I even hit it. You know what this is like? It's like Man of Steel! You know that Zack Snyder Superman movie? Everything's getting destroyed all over the place. You think I'll have to break Zod's neck and be all sad about it and then go fight Batman? I hope not. I hope I get to be Batman next. OKay- aw fuck DESTROY! Nice. That's what I really want. That's the real shit right there! Looking at buildings is fine. Destroying them is wayyyy fucking cooler! I'm just a wannabe architect That's all I'm doin' I'm trying to figure out the structural weaknesses of the buildings so I can make better ones next. I'm sorry that I have to use you guys as guinea pigs but I don't really apologize, I'm actually just only saying that 'cause you guys are robots! And no one really cares. In fact. I'm a fucking robot so.. What does it matter? Maybe we're all just robots in a simulation of life, you ever think about that? Probably not cause you're robots. I think it's gone forever. Oh, I can still see it! Hey, are you coming down?! Probably, but probably not in a billion years *laughs* Okay, come here tiny building! Is it coming- it's still up there! It's coming, it's coming down, but it's coming down miles away. Okay, I wonder if we can see it. Hello tiny house. Look at it all the way over there! Oh, hi!  Can I keep destroying things? I know it's not part of my score now, but I don't care. This sounds like a didgeridoo. *Makes noises* Oh shit, I missed him. Ha, can't miss when you are the law! Ha the boat just fucking fell apart. OOO can I destroy that boat? Gimme another- gimme another thing, give me another building. Whoosh! It does stuff, and makes sounds and noises! Oh fuck, *laughs* Aw yeah!!! It feels like.. calamari (??)Where are you guys going? You wanna get across the water quicker, here you go! *Super Robot 3000 Unlocked* OOO Super Robot 3000 unlocked! What do they do? Is that you? Oh no, it's YOU! Hi! What do you do? Okay, he's gone! Are you not gonna help me destroy things? Hey! Hello!? Why are you helping put things back? I will fucking murder your face! Screw you robot fuck!Okay here we go, here we go, now this is happening, this is happening. I have to be fucking quick now with this shit. The game's lagging! okay, pow! Fuck. That. Robot. Guy. Putting all my shit back in the right place. You think you can stop progress! Nothing stands in the way of evolution! Fuck you dude! Just grab everything, grab everything and fire everything AT everything. All the time, forever. Okay, well I'm gonna leave this episode here. Fuck that little robot dude! He sucks! Yeah, I'm talking to you! Oh, maybe it wasn't you, I dunno. But it kinda looked like you I dunno what he was doing he seemed to be just putting things back in their place Maybe it was actually helping me, I have no idea But that game- oh god I'm all the way over here. That game is fun! A bit, too easy. It doesn't seem like there's anything to do beyond just smashin' things. Which is fine, don't get me wrong, I love smashing things, I love just firing shit all over the place and being able to smack my arms all around, that's cool That's awesome, it makes me feel like a baby in a playground that I haven't done since I was like 9. Yeah, I was a baby when I was 9, what are you gonna do about it? But uhm, I think it needs a bit more, like a challenge or something. Cause otherwise it's just you smashing things and No matter what I did I was able to win. So that doesn't really feel like there's a whole lot to it, like some sorta story maybe, well, I guess a game like that doesn't really need a story just something that actually feels like there's more to it otherwise it just feels kinda mindless and you kinda forget about it very quickly but other than that, very very fun, especially when the whole town is destructible. I like that! I want more games to be able to do that. Just knocking out whole sections of buildings. Be able to pick up a giant building sideways and firing it to knock down three more buildings- that shit is cool! Why don't we just *claps* do more of that in games? It's fun! Anyway, THANK you guys so much for watching this episode, if you liked it, PUNCH the like button IN the face, LIKE A BOSS! and high fives all 'round *wapoosh, wapoosh* Thank you guys and I will see all you dudes... IN THE NEXT VIDEOOO!!!  Love you want. You're my favorite 