 Hey everyone we're here to show you Lenovo Star Wars Jedi challenges game which Gordon and I just tried today now This is an augmented reality game, and you've probably heard about Virtual Reality mixed reality augmented reality So augmented reality is when you have a headset, but you can see the world around you And there's things projected in front of you and that's different from something like virtual reality And we have an example of that here This is the Samsung gear where you stick a smartphone in front, and you can't see anything around you So you're waving around and your friends are laughing at you or Microsoft hololens, which is augmented reality and it projects Holograms into the environment? But it's crazy expensive and Microsoft hasn't figured out a way to sell it to normal people yet Lenovo's game is actually designed to be affordable and accessible to normal people It does use a smartphone like this moto Z force And there is a list of phones that it's compatible with and will show you what the game looks like right here alright? So we're gonna lift the box on the Jedi challenges game Maybe I should have Gordon do this part So here on top we have the Jedi challenges lightsaber and Gordon you have two lightsabers right well I will say your father wanted you to have this Yes, actually I do have a lightsaber two of them enough thing take master replicas light saber Which looks exactly like this almost? This is very close to the one I think from Empire Strikes Back Lenovo said it's actually the one from No, they said it was Anakin's and raised and I can't remember the other person right because it's supposed to be the one that Luke gets his hand cut off and so it gets somehow Alright to put that down over there take that off now. What do we got here? Wow even even the little baggie has the logo on it is this merchandise thing or what people So you want to talk about that yeah, so clearly you know this here is the Gear VR, and and again. This is the big difference is you're looking right through this. It's it's Augmented reality, or I guess Microsoft might try to call it mix reality if they were to do this yeah Big difference is what there's a couple cameras here. Yeah, so those cameras actually Orient to themselves and you using this module and a camera with the official name of this I think it's called the beacon oh yeah The Vegan, yeah And it goes on the floor in the direction that you're gonna be facing when you play the game so that helps the headset orient Itself and know where to put the projection and I also wanted to show you so we have a cell phone here and While I'm not sure if we can you want to put it in put all the tape off right now basically What happens is that? There's this carriage that you put the cell phone in this goes on the top, and then the image projects down Onto a through a couple of planes and then on to the front and then it reflects back into your eyes so there are a couple of benefits there first of all you don't have a smartphone screen glaring inches from your face, but The other thing is that because you can see through the front not only Can you see what's around you which we mentioned before but people who are with you can actually see what you're looking at too So again you're not quite as isolated from the world around you as you may be with some virtual reality headsets now I sure all of you know that the next Star Wars movie comes out on December 15th And while we were able to play some current games on this product. There are going to be new Features that unlock when the movie comes out which we weren't able to see unfortunately The lightsaber itself has basically you know the motion sensor like you would have in a smartphone It can tell if you're moving it doesn't make any sound itself I believe the sound comes out of the phone sound comes out of the bummer up. Let me there's a power switch in the bottom And the charges through microUSB this augmented reality headset does come with these other two accessories Whereas something like the samsung gear and others? It's usually you just getting the headset The other nice thing is that? There are some mixed reality things coming out now where you have to get an entire PC to go with it or make sure that your current PC is up to snuff with a Decent graphics card and other things to be able to run the thing and then of course you're tethered You know to the computer while you're trying to play so the benefit of having a smartphone based makes reality is that you're not tethered you know But then the issue is do you have enough power coming out of this product here want to try and get that in there the? App should be starting. You know does the phone have enough power to do something fun now another thing I wanted to mention is that while there is a relatively short list of phones that are Certified compatible with this game right now And they include the iPhone 6 and up the Samsung Galaxy s7 and up And also the Google pixels and of course the Moto Z to force that we have here Lenovo says that they are adding more phones and also they have connectors for lightning USBC and micro USB so technically any phone that connects to that which is all phones Could be used with this headset They just can't guarantee that the video quality is going to be there or even that the processor is going to be able to Handle all the gameplay so when we played the game what they did is they set up the phone? They slid it into the headset they put the headset on and the headset is just as awkward feeling as any other headset You've got it just a bunch of straps to get it on your head, right And then you hold the lightsaber out in front of you And there are a couple of buttons on the lightsaber that you use to point at things and in the game that I chose You actually had to choose a planet from the Star Wars stories And I chose the planet of Naboo and on Naboo there are three different games. I could play at three different levels including fighting with some battle drones fighting with Darth Maul Or playing the hologram chess game, and so I picked the battle drones first And I had battle drones shooting at me And I deflected them with my lightsaber and one thing the game does is it does offer guidelines? So it kind of shows you where you should put your lightsaber to deflect things? And that was very useful when I ended up playing with Darth Maul because as you know Darth Maul has a double lightsaber And so well he started off with a single lightsaber, and we were sparring away Then I hit him a few times and he got mad until we put out the double lightsaber And so those guidelines were very helpful at that time now Gordon you tried the hologram chess game What was that like yes the whole game chess game? Which I really liked because I had no fan of any of the Darth Maul characters Yeah The chess game was just like sitting in the Millennium Falcon as you're smuggling drugs to the other side of the galaxy I mean spice let's call it spice and You would move your chess pieces around on the board And it was just like they lifted it turned out of the movie so the cool thing I really liked about about the Lenovo HMD Is you still see the real world remember? This is augmented reality? Yes, so it has that whole? Holographic kind of mean of the original Star Wars, you know the Princess Leia, and the the chess characters look it look perfect I mean it just looked like you were in front of the tape so there were other projected characters Whatever so it had a virtual chess board from the Falcon and then they had the characters on it But you know look. They worked really hard to make it look like yeah, they were holograms and And the cool thing is you know you move around and stuff would shift with it too right because it does have Positioning, which is one of the problem with a lot of the phone based VR There's no real position. Yeah And this is actually you know the nice thing about this beacon is it's a pretty easy way to set your position other Headsets you know you have to set multiple things around the room or or do a lot of crazy calibration Yeah I like the vibe and so all you have to do is set this down in the direction that you want to play so like I'm gonna play with Darth Maul, and he's gonna be over there so I put this beacon down right there You were talking about what you could see let's talk about the field of vision on these headsets right right so the fov which Is a 33 degrees up and down and 60 degrees wide? Which is a huge improvement? I few people have ever put on a Holland's. It's amazing technology. Yeah $3,000 but you really it's like wearing a welding mask you basically see a little tiny spot like about that big And it really kind of breaks it up on the Lenovo hmd What is it? What's the fov it's at 60 degrees 60 degrees, so you're just seeing a lot more of the image and it feels a Lot less weird with hololens because everything in Hollands as you shift around it gets cut off There's enough of a window with the Lenovo HMG I don't know what am I calling right the Jedi challenges that it really does? Well the other thing is that so Gordon where's class yes And his glasses actually fit really well within this and that's definitely been an issue with some headsets Yeah, I cannot like I cannot use these glasses with a vibe or oculus because they're just too big Yeah, no This is I really do like yeah? So Gordon can see around the room and also if he were projecting a game onto the headset I could actually see what he was seeing if I just looked in here and that's kind of fun, too Yeah, the other thing they did on on this headset. This is a nice touch see that it has these little Slits on them, they're basically like what? Vince Vince But there so you can see they also let course cool air in so your your glasses Don't get fog down But they let you see the ground basically the lenovo says they want you to be able to see the ground So you don't walk through a glass window and now Four stories to the ground wellin right now the games are just single-player, so I'm fighting Darth Maul He's playing holo chess on his own, but in the future in addition to unlocking certain features around the movie There might be the chance of multiplayer features and upgrades coming to this product in the future And that would be really cool because when I play hollow chests I want to let the wookie win But I can't do that if Gordon isn't the wiki on the other side of the table? I think definitely the one negative is its it does seem like it's it's for this game Right so your daydream your gear VR They're great for looking at 360 videos 360 pictures. Yeah this At the moment does not is not gonna be great for that well in all it plays is Star Wars games And we're assuming that if this takes off that they'll have more games You know more licensing deals so that you won't just be stuck in Star Wars land, but at the moment. This is all We've got yeah the biggest reason that this is so interesting to us is that it's only $200 so think about it you do have to have one of the compatible smartphones But you're getting the lightsaber the beacon and the headset for 200 bucks I mean that's really affordable for most people right now I think a lot of people to go while that seems like an awful lot for a fixed Star Wars game But if you think about it Daydream and gear VR. It was nothing but you know two lenses in a box right they did it with cardboard originally, yeah And this was a hundred dollars when it first came out and people thought that was a great deal So this is a lot of hardware. You're getting a Halloween prop. Yeah for one thing and you're getting you know positional Augmented reality well I I mean yeah, I'd love it if this were 150 bucks, and it feels like oh It's just like an impulse buy but a $200 that is still an awful lot of hardware that you're getting I think a hundred for this and 200 for three things with a bunch of cables right and then of course hololens there's $3,000 so it's not a bad deal, but you do have to be Dedicated to your Star Wars games right so you know what else I mean that that brings us to one of the other negatives You really gear VR You can watch movies you yeah, and look at pictures that are 360 This as today is not going to work really well as a 360 video view or a 360 picture viewer Yeah So do you think it's always going to be Star Wars 2 I? Would guess that if they do licensing with another movie that there could be other props you know? But I mean Star Wars is such a huge franchise. There are so many more games. They could do You know and again like these games only focus on certain movies some of which Some of us don't even consider a real Star Wars movies And we're actually looking forward to having them some games that relate to the real Star Wars movies Yes, and that is actually one thing I think is good is they did they did they they have there's a there's the snow battle on on Hoth? There is a Darth Vader, so they seem to be mixing it for fans of the original and six-year-olds who like the new movies so You're gonna see a lot of gadget videos where someone holds something in their hands ago Look isn't this cool But then when you actually use it you realize how hard it is So we actually did take this thing out of the box and set it up so we could tell you the problems that we man Into what we were doing it, and what did we learn first? You really need to read the instructions I know I know god forbid you do that But it's actually not so bad the instructions slide through on the phone with pictures So it's really easy to follow and We had a couple of hiccups that we made it through one of them was bluetooth pairing which is always a pain in the neck But we actually had to unpair the phone And the app and then turn off the app and turn it back on to get the pairing to work correctly and then this beacon which Orient's you in the game we had the wrong color There actually there's a little switch on the bottom you can switch from pink to blue And I just thought I like that blue color but that wasn't helping us calibrate the lightsaber we had to set it back to pink and you'll probably in any game you have it'll Tell you which color to put on the beacon and right now I'm disorienting Gordon by putting that on the table because now his game thinks that's the floor Gordon what else do you think after trying it here? It's pretty cool. I this if your star wars fan. This probably will Be the best Star Wars gift for this season. I think what are you playing right now? I'm playing that chess game again. Just like in the Falcon There's no wookie. Though. This is good. Let the wookie win 