 *Whapish* Top 'o the mornin' to ya laddies my name is Jacksepticeye and welcome back to.. SUPER!! HOT!! VR (Virtual Reality) again, we're here with our our dog bowl which I thought was my bowler hat last time we're gonna mess some dudes up! BARK BARK BITCHES!!! This is the one I failed, isn't it? OOOOOO That's an a spicy mmmeet the ball Wait I thought I did this? Naw shit.. Ohh shit.. *breaking glass sound* pink..pink GAAAAAH DONT SHOOT ME IN THE BUTT! DONT SHOOT ME IN A ASS!!! *empty gun sounds*..ahh nutsacks I got one of em *forceful throwing sounds* ahh fuck OHH I got em!!! YES!!! phwoo phhwoo fwaa get em, please... please hit em... Please hit em! Its gonna hit em!! YEAAHH Got em in the hand! AH Hahaa Ahh Hahaa *sound of defeet*..fuck Gahh My fuckin' shoulder gah stand back up again There's a lot of upsy downy fucky doo Fwaaa! Fwooghh *High pitch wail of fear* Don't! Don't do it! pink *laughing* Woooow I'd get that checked out if I were you you're missin' a whole load o' shit fwo where the fuck did that go? I'm soo gonna get shot... Ok Two for two! Ohh can we make it a trifecta... Can we make it... *Singing* Ohh just the two of us~ Oh shit YES! YES!! Why ya fuckin' shootin' that thing for? Shoot him!!! GAHH! Help me!(no) I'm scared! Im alone! uhwaa Did I get em? I think I got em... Hi!! uh.. I'm in here I got him too What?! Did I kill the other guy? Awesome! heugh Fuckin' hell Gimmi...gimmi a hammer in this hand Naw fuck ah fuck I have to punch em I have to punch em, Hi! YEAAAAAH FUCK YOU! FUUUUUUCK YOUUUUU why ya missin' everythin'? ook ok Aim... FIRE! Ahh perfect! Aim aaand FIRE! PERFECT! Naw I hit the fucking thing again God dammit can ya hit the guy YEAAHS! SUPER HOT!! Oh, I'm gonna grab that like some fine ass Yes! Oh my guy was doing, like, a perfect symbol oh god... Ohh god OHH god! Oh hi! fuck Fuck Fuuck Hahaaa Quick draw Quick draw Jack That's what I like to call me ooh whoh FUCK! Nahh god! No guns for you guys! I don't like it when they have guns! Where'd my cup go? See? My guys doing the whole, perfect symbol like... Hmmm Oh, when the super hot is just right wow oh ohh god Oh god oh god I am very scared of things That's a...! What? Nnoh god Gahhhhhh! Hahahaa!!! Oh hi oh Hold a...sir? Jesus christ Yeaaaah! SUP- I kill all of you Can I kill more dudes? That was really fun! Im having a good time! ok Hijack Hello! Ohh you mean hijack the car I thought you were saing Hello Jack Oohhh Like lightening I am! Like the wind! Ok I took... This is a plane not a car! Uh oh Am I still on the plane? (yeah ya are) Ok I'm out here now Ah hello? Punchy punchy Dieee Hiyup! OK...Super fast! Lets do this! Lets do this!!! I got it this time! Oh I fuckin' got it this time Can we switch?? Thank you Huah...Ho! Mmmyes!!! *Ninja screams* COME AT ME! Nya! Oh fuck It didn't work! As good as I thought it would I feel like Lara Croft!!! Did I do it? Yeahh!! No martinis for you! Escape? oh god Why am I escaping the plane I thought I was hijacking it!? Naaagh my armpit!!! Fffuck Hugh! Gawww! Hyup! *Ninja screams* Come at me! *Singing* We're flying around at the speed of sound~ ok ok I'm fuckin' ready! I'm ready! Jump owwn it Jump owwn it! Jump owwn it!! Phwoowo come on! Come on Fwooh! Haha! That was fuckin' awesome!! It makes me feel cool! Hello! Ok, I'm done Yess Gimmi that gun...ohh oh come to papa Oh yes! Wha ya goin' over there for? *Empty barrel sounds* Uh oh...Uh oh *gulp* *wet popping sounds* *swallow* I needed that I need- Can you sit down? Get back in your seat! We don't have fuckin' crisps! Jesus chri- oh there's a mattress there Hyap! Sir? I know- I know ya really wanted them but ya gotta get back in your seat! One way or the other, I'm gonna make you get back in! ok Got em! Did I get him? I don't know... ok Ehh Stahp shootin the fuckin' chairs! Therea a gun down here! I need that! Ah fuck... ok Ok imma just Imma just... Gimmi the gun I cant get there because... Yes! Shit! All I did was shot the gun again! HA! Fuck you! Ok I was in very compromising positions But we're ok now! Yeah get back in your seat, this is a no fly zone What? What? Whaat? Well that was fuckin' easy Okay! Ah more o' that ple- Oh god Where am I? Oh god that was a wheel! That was a plane wheel! Ah fuck... Booshk! Hugh! Kyup! Aaaand whop! *Warbling cries* Ok, thank you! *More warbling screams* Easiest one Easiest one of the bunch OHHH YEAHH! Down the fuckin' hole you go, you sons a- -BITCHES! Hi! Say hi to the people on the ground for me, I'm too busy being awesome up here Huehue hup Oh I'm in my room again, thank god! Is there anybody breakin' anymore of my fuckin' screens, no? Jesus Christ, bluegh ughh Can I do this? Reach the pyramid, obey Ok? I would love to! What does that say? Lasagne.. Bootleg Desperados Ok! In we go please! I would like another round of that because its... Awesome! C-Can I do it? Yes! Ohh, das a nice shoe! Gah, fuckin' stinks Ah shit, it broke Ohhh god, my wifes gonna kill me Is that- Am I on a strip pole? Dance dance dance! Oh yeah~ Ohh yeah, you like that don't you? Ohhh yeah! That's how we- Thats how we- *Breaks into giggles* Thats how we get killed apparently Hyu! What the fuck do I do? Just keep dancin'? Ok? Ok that guys dead Ok imma hide behind the pole Pole is life after all Ok don't shoot me Im just tryna earn a wage! Ok! fack sake... Oh go- I better pass this one fuck Fuck! Fuuuck!! Can we pass?! Can we skip to the next one? The thing is ready! Gahhh! Fuck sa- All I'm doin' is crawlin' on my knees! Is this what you want game? Is this what you like?! Huegh shite balls Lemme go onto the next one! How do I do?! Im pressing everything I can! Oh god Fuck sake, what do I do?! Lemmi go! Ahhh there we go, time for revenge! Yeeeeesss! Uh oh Uh oh! Fwup! Yess! Its cuz ya didn't fuckin' pay a tip! Hyup! Uh oh Uwaa christ! Imma Imma just take one of these, is that ok? Ok! Are ya gonna shoot? Oh Oh! OH! Ugh Get em. Ah Hahaaa *gulping* Gahh it feels good to be a winner every now and the- ooh That doesn't go in there Uh oh Uh oh! This might be- OH GO- OHHH WHAAAA god this might be bad Okey smokey Wheee *Random sounds* Oh theres a shotgun right here Theres two shotguns right here! This is much easier! I killed em with my mind! I was just thinking, 'Man, I wish that guy was dead!' And then he did die! Is that it? Can I get off my knees? Yeeeaahhh super hot! You want me on my knees, don't ya super hot? Thats the way it is Hoosh! Fuck yeahh Das awesome Ahh fellas We can talk about this... Just joking! Muhaha! Silly bitches Ahaha Okay Ok ok that's a lotta bad guys Thats a lotta them Ohh You hit the keg! That was the beer for the party, motherfucker! Oh, can I get on a helicopter? Nope :( Move on though Ohh shit Ohh shit Ahm, can I have your gun? Pretty please? Don't- no- don't Doon't Don't point that fuckin' thing at me Dont! Don't you fuckin' dare! Whered it go? Uh oh Uh oh Ohh go- that didn't hit em! Aww no! It was supposed to hit him but it didn't! Ooh theres another gun right there *Slow motion soud effects* That was cool! Like a action movie! I got his gun! Sweet tasty jams Ohh Christ ohh fuck Yee I like da shotgun! Da shotgun is my friend! Gah! Shot me in the face! *Screams of pain* Well that does it for this episode of Super Hot VR! Thats wh-Thats why they call the game Super Hot, cuz that's what ya are after you finish it God all that dodgin' and weavin', And I wish I had a better room for it cuz I'm afraid ill smack into all this shit around here. And if I do that, I'm screwed I wish i had, like a more open space because I wanna- bounce around like that but when ya have the stuff on and you don't know where ya are ya kinda have to be a little more... cautious Oh god, but its fun I love VR games, I love them so much I wan- I can't wait for more VR games to come out its so awesome and again, very very nice it does lose tracking every now and then its probably cause.. I'm not perfectly centred. like, my sensors are here but to be in the centre of my room i need to be here. So- So there's a few flaws in the system So i need to- need to get a few more...i don't know what i need I need a bigger space I don't kow that the - the limits of these ones are Ahm, I don't know what the Vive ones are either actually but I would love to love to try these ones out in a space where you know nothing can go wrong Like, being in your room is awesome and I do have the room no move around but what you don't see is when i bring my hands up near my barriers, like, here a big grid shows up and its the same in the Vive so whenever that happens it always makes me feel like I'm closer to something than i am and even though you mark out where your boundaries are before you play games it its not- you don't know where you are in space like, I can't tell if I'm turning around. like, normally you'd see this angle here but if I turn around in the game I don't kow that that's what I'm looking at because- your brain is all over the place and the grid, you don't know what part of your room you're looking at so if I wanted to punch someone and they were near the grid technically I could punch the matresses all I want but I don't know they're the matresses cuz sometimes i get a bit discombobulated cuz to you guys it's obvious to know which way I'm facing but when you're in the headset you've no idea which orientation you're in because each level starts out differently and then when ya start hittin' things and then the level resets you could be over here lookin' at somethin' so, that's why you'll see me often with my back to the camera or, or lookin' overv this way or somethin' and that's why you'll see me take off the headset every now and then and just, realign myself so i can get the the levels to realign themselves aswell so little things here and there like that but if you had just like, a, perfectly square room, a big arse, perfectly square room, you weren't recording or anything like that and you had a VR headset preferably wireless if they ever become a thing, that would be awesome you would have so much fun in a game like that just bouncing around all you want rolling around! Imagine if that were completely wireless that there were no wires attached to that and it was just a headset on your head that would be fucking phenomenal and the wireless controllers and everything being able to roll around your room and bounce around and spin aroud and shoot dudes would be so much fuckin' fun! but we're a few years away from that yet but anyway! Thank you guys, so much for watching this! If you liked it, KICK that like button, in the face LIKE A BOSS!!! And... High fives all 'round *Whapish...Whapish* Thank you guys, and i will see all you dudes... IN THE NEXT VIDEOOO!!! *Outtro music* Man, it makes ya feel so fuckin' bouncy after playin' that it's AWESOME!! 