 GREG KOREMAN: Alright. Hi, everyone. Welcome to the Farpoint set up and play video. My name is Greg Koreman. I'm one of the founders of Impulse Gear. Today we're going to be playing with the Aim controller. So let's start. We'll jump right into the setup. Left-handed or right-handed. I am right-handed, so I'll select that. Height selection. I am 5'10". So select that and hit confirm. It's important to set your height correctly so that the character in the game matches your own height, and that will add to the immersion. Okay. Now, what we see around me is the tracking area. And we see the camera represented in front of me as well. It is about 6 feet away from me, and that's going to be a good distance for when you're using the Aim controller. And that's also about the same height as if I were looking down the sights of the Aim controller. Most people tend to set their camera on top of their television set. And for most room setups, that's going to be a good spot. Okay. Now the next part of this setup is the verification step. Now, the first part of that is to look down and you'll see the Farpoint logo. That's going to verify that you have the correct distance away from the camera. And then the second part is to light up each one of these segments, and that's going to verify that you have the correct tracking for the Aim controller. Okay. Now that setup is complete, we can go to gameplay. And we're going to cut directly to that now. WOMAN: Setup complete. Thank you. GREG KOREMAN: Okay. So we've loaded into Summit. I'm here. I'm holding the assault rifle. You see as I move the Aim controller around, the assault rifle moves with me one-to-one because the Aim controller is a track controller. It feels like I'm holding the gun in my hands. And as I move the gun around, my arms are moving with me. You can see if I look down at my shadow, my whole body moves with me as I move around. And so if I want to turn, I can just turn my body, and the Aim controller has quite a wide range that it can be tracked. So I can turn around. And then if I turn too  far, I will see the guardrail system show up. And that's going to tell me that the camera's back in this direction. I can aim back this way and be facing the camera. At any point I can hold down the options button, and that's going to bring up the tracking area here. And you can see where the camera is as well. Okay. Let's get started. I'm going to use the forward stick to move. I can move forward and strafe left and right. Okay. And we're coming up to a hologram here. The holograms are one of the ways that we tell the story in Farpoint. I'm going to scan it to activate it. DR. TYSON: Okay. Well, it's official. There are other survivors. Someone's been trying to boost their radio signal with this setup here, to reach us I guess. Maybe -- maybe I should wait. See if they come back. DR. MOON: I don't know. It looks pretty beat up. Could be abandoned. DR. TYSON: All righty. Yeah. Okay. Well, then I'll use it to boost my signal. See if we can reach 'em that way. MAN: Dr. Tyson, Dr. Moon, I found your coms relay. Do you copy now? Dammit. GREG KOREMAN: Okay. Continuing on. I'm here at the top of this mountain in the Summit level. And let's see. I'm going to take the right path here. I've got the assault rifle in my hands right now. And the assault rifle has a holographic scope or a holographic sight, sorry. I'm looking down the sight. And you just need to line up the reticle for precision aiming. Continuing on, I'm coming up this hill here. I see another group of enemies. Take them out. I actually have a shotgun with me as well. The shotgun is good for close range stuff. And then I like to swap back to the rifle, the assault rifle, for the longer range stuff. It's kind of mid to longer range here. Okay. So you saw I was swapping between the two weapons just by moving the gun up over my shoulder like that. That's going to show you that -- that's going to allow you to switch -- I'm just trailing that guy. That allows you to switch weapons kind of like you're pulling the weapon off of your back. I'm going to swap back to the shotgun here to make sure I'm full ammo. The shotgun, you can reload it by hitting the button on the side. All the buttons are within reach of your hands when you're holding the Aim controller. And if you're left-handed, we have an identical button on the other side, so you're good on that too. So here we go. We're coming up into the sand cave. And going across this bridge. You can fall off, but I'm not going to. I'm just going to continue on. And here we go. All right. I'm coming into a darker area here, and I know on the screen it looks really dark, but in the headset I can see just fine. Some more debris from the Pilgrim. So there's no aim assist in Farpoint. The Aim controller is very precise, so we don't use any aim assist. You just need to aim down the sights. It's very natural, just kind of point and shoot. He almost got me. Okay. Reload. Swap back to the assault rifle, and we're good to go. Okay. We're at the top of this mountain. And something up a little bit here. Go on this cliff face. WOMAN: Log in and scan all fragments. GREG KOREMAN: Okay. We've got another hologram up here. Looks like he even made it this far. Going to scan her. DR. TYSON: Jesus Christ. Wow. This is high. DR. MOON: You okay up there? DR. TYSON: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah I just got to hug the wall and try not to die. DR. MOON: Steady. Watch your footing. Don't rush this. DR. TYSON: Believe me, I have zero intention of rushing right now. GREG KOREMAN: All right. Sounds good. Let's hug the wall and here we go. Okay, so. We're coming up to another section where we've got some secondary ammo. I'm holding the shotgun right now. So I'm going to go pick up the grenades. The grenades go with the shotgun. You pick them up just by moving the gun through them like this. I just picked up the rockets with the assault rifle. The rockets are guided, so even after I fire them, I can still aim where I want them to go. Aim where you want those to go. And then the grenades, they explode on impact. ...get these guys with the-- I see them up there. Go back a little bit and get 'em with the assault rifle. This guy too. There we go. Okay. Let's go grab some more of that secondary ammo. Got the assault rifle here. Pick up those rockets and then pick up these grenades with the shotgun. And let's go. Okay. That's good. Okay. So that's probably a good place to end the video. I hope you enjoyed this video, the set up and play video for Farpoint. Thanks for watching. 