 Hello, everybody! Welcome back to Cleveroad. I bet that every of you has some associations connected with the future. Jetpacks, flying cars, robotic cats… But what about the virtual reality? It is a concept that is usually associated with the future. The future has come. VR is no longer just a dream but reality. So, did it actually live up to the expectations? Let's find it out. VR is a relatively new technology. However, it has already found an application in many industries. Thus, militaries can conduct training in aviation or special vehicle driving with the help of VR set. It is even used in education. For example, future doctors are able to have a training in surgery by means of virtual reality. Of course, special attention is given to an entertainment sphere. Virtual reality provides entirely new experience for gamers and moviegoers. You can watch a video in 360 degrees as well as see the world through your favorite game character eyes. Experts claim that we should be ready for the entirely new level of entertainment which is going to be VR oriented. VR certainly gave us new possibilities and it is hard to underestimate its contribution to the further science development. In the recent years, VR has become the most discussable topic in IT industry. VR devices appear to be an essential part of any exhibition somehow related to technologies. Many companies specialized in device production have used this trend and started their own VR version development. This way, such giants of industry as Google, HTC, Samsung etc. presented their creations to the general public. You can say ‘So what?’.The matter is that till such huge corporations support this technology - it will be alive. Accordingly, users will not be deprived of a new content. We have already discussed the topic of rapidly growing mobile industry so many times that I have lost count. It would not be a smart step for the companies to ignore this market. As a result, there is a variety of virtual reality applications as well as devices giving you an opportunity to feel a new experience from this technology. VR technology is only on its way to more broad application on the mobile market. Nevertheless, the perspectives of VR are understood for both entrepreneurs and developers. How can we distinguish a high-quality VR product from a poor one? There are some challenges in creating VR product. If you want to be proud of your product's quality, virtual reality developers should take care of minimum latency in it. When a user turns his head in the virtual space, the latency should be minimized and maximum closed to the real life. The perfect latency is considered to be 20 milliseconds. The interaction model should be thought through properly as it is one of the biggest problems in the 3D environment. Users cannot feel the objects like in a real life. This ergonomic problem should be solved to provide users with convenient ways of interactions. Additionally, interaction with the product should be optimized according to the platform's controllers and user's needs. Probably, one of the most prospective features of VR is a real-time collaboration between users. People around the world have an opportunity to collaborate with each other in a virtual environment. Again, while adding collaboration functions, you should pay additional attention to interaction. For example, if one user is manipulating the object, another user may not be able to do it. Some experts do not believe in the success of the virtual reality. Nevertheless, even they cannot deny the perspectives of augmented reality. It is not only a great option for entertainment but also enhances the capacity of different professions and businesses. The clear example of a company which created the augmented reality app for business is IKEA’s Catalogue. It gives a virtual preview of the furniture in the room. This way, business owners can attract more clients to their products or services. With the help of this technology, it is easier for consumers to make a choice. Further development of AR and VR is unavoidable. This is certainly something more than just a tendency. The whole industry has started development into this direction. It is important to be ready for the changes this technology will bring to our lives. To learn more about the Virtual reality follow the link to the detailed article underneath. Thank you for your attention! Subscribe in order not to miss further videos. Goodbye, see you soon! 