 [PIANO MUSIC PLAYING] Toes forward, ladies. Get in line. [MUSIC PLAYING] When I first started looking into virtual reality, it seemed apparent that this is where the world was going. It felt to me that the best way for our students to really learn was to get up on their feet, do a production, and do it with people who have the experience. I have known Jacquie Barnbrook as a visual effects producer over the years in the industry. She had produced the Martian VR Experience as well as another 360 project for VRC. We're here at the De Mille Theater at the University of North Carolina School of the Arts. This is sort of a simulation that we're in. And there's a moment where our character, Henry, gets dropped into the simulation, which is inside the VR headset. And it's a dance. She's like, dropped into the middle of this dance routine. And she's not really a ballet dancer. [BALLET MUSIC PLAYING] [LAUGHS] I knew that we were going to be getting students from the drama school. And I wanted to make sure that we used dance. There you go. That's better. First of all, it's a real challenge. Choreographing for virtual reality, you must choreograph in the round and also with a 5 foot diameter away from the central camera. I think it's just added an element to the learning outcome for the students. It's just been a great collaboration. The School of Dance has had so much fun. We had a tech come in from Radiant Images to help us and Eric Hahn, who really does understand how to shoot in this space, how to light in this space. Sound was a whole other issue because you could only use [INAUDIBLE]. You had to hide mics all over the stages to get the sound. They are done. They are done pre-reading. They're all getting lunch. Or, at least-- Then, I'm going to head over there and-- yeah. OK. Not long to go check it out. OK. On "Decipher," we've been using multiple different cameras. And-- oh, and here it is. This is one of the cameras we've been using on the shoot. It's called the jaunt. It's a camera array where every single camera module overlaps with each other's viewpoint to create a full 360 degree vantage point. We've got four cameras on the top, four on the bottom, and 16 around the middle. And then we have a series of GoPros for our live preview. This thing makes so much data that it doesn't currently support any kind of live view. You can't effectively look through the viewfinder on this camera. [LAUGHS] Every project becomes a place to explore and experiment. And it's been exciting to do that alongside the students every step of the way. We found partners in the business who are eager to see students and this next generation learn how to tell stories in this space. It's always great fun, though, when you're going into a brand new world and nobody's got the answers, so, it's up to you to figure it out. That, to me, is a good time. 