 ISIS has started bulldozing the ancient city of Nimrud... Militants used military vehicles to destroy at least part of the archaeological site... terror groups destruction of an ancient city in Iraq... this crater is all that remains of the ancient Assyrian city of Nimrud.  AGNETE LASSON: It's just unbelievable,the destruction and how they're targeting pre-Islamic cultural heritage. It is part of our human past and that... that element, that part of our past is irretrievably lost. We can do the best that we can to teach our own students about this past. But these students would never be able to visit that palace. That was another reason for choosing this particular model, to introduce the students. ...slide thorough like that ... The V.R. is the next best thing. &lt;music The course is an introduction to Ancient Near Eastern culture. When we get to the Assyrian kings, now we can talk about one of their great cultural expressions which are these monumental palaces. They entered a throne room in a palace and the palace was called the Northwest Palace. And it was built by an Assyrian ruler called Ashurnasirpal. KATHRYN SLANSKI: So these were meant to be a projection of the might of the Empire and the might of the King. They’re like mountains. They're so big and you can't comprehend that human beings created this. So with the way that we're taught with images and little objects you never understanding what's the scale of these things. What does it feel like to be in the palace. What's the grandeur of such a palace. Then you are thinking wouldn't it be ideal if there was a way that we could immerse them in that particular environment. We decided maybe we can start using VR as a possible technology to help with that. Whoa ... oh my god... Whoa, wait what...? I've never done this. John Harford: So Virtual Reality is not really established as a viable instructional tool yet. You know we're in unknown territory. Weird...ahh... it's so crazy. SANJANA SINGH: It is not about the technology. It is all about how we use the technology to impact education and just help to make a better experience. (VR: in headphones)... also creatures which guard and protect major doorways are often depicted in Assyrian art as having bulls or lions bodies.... KATHRYN SLANSKI: It was a lot more effective as a teaching tool than I had expected. There's a reconstruction of one of these rooms at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. And I take students there as well. But it's nothing like the dizzying sensation of stepping into the throne room in this virtual reality. It was really amazing to... to go into VR and get that sense of space. You have these goosebumps going and you have the chills because the lighting, the sounds and everything is absolutely like you are in that palace environment. The ceiling is so high you have to turn your head to look up at it. It's a physical sensation of stepping into a really large space that is so large it's disorienting. The high ceilings.... like, I don't understand how you paint that high if you're living in like... I don’t even know... 4000 BC? There's no substitute for the real thing. But what the VR does in combination with the real art is set it into its architectural context in a way that is very difficult for anyone to do with slides. There are some constants and some almost incomprehensible differences but understanding the human past and objects that were created in the past, I think it tells us something about the human condition or what it is to be a human. &lt; music 