 The Western Wall is the holiest site in the world where Jews can pray. So why is it, that all those people are attracted to this section of the wall? The story starts 3,700 years ago. According to biblical tradition, Abraham arrived to the mountain behind us, known as Mount Moriah, and was told to sacrifice his son, Isaac, yet sacrificed the ram. That event is known as "the binding of Isaac". About 800 years later, King David identified that hill over there, as a place that should unite the Israelites. David never built a Temple, his son Solomon did, and he built it right over there. The Temple was supposed to unite the Israelites, politically and spiritually, and according to the bible, housed the Arc of the Covenant. 586 B.C., the Babylonians arrived to Judea, destroyed Judea, destroyed Jerusalem, destroyed the temple, and exiled the Jews to Babylon. Within a few years, the Babylonian empire collapsed and was replaced by the Persians led by Cyrus, who allowed the Jews to come back to Jerusalem, their home land, to Zion, and build a second Temple on the same place where the First Temple was standing. Years later, when King Herod came into power, he renovated the Second Temple and built this, a compound of 144,000 square meters, which is equivalent to more than 20 soccer fields, walls 90 feet high, and in the middle, a structure known as the Holy of Holies, surrounded by this magnificent compound. We are now below the south-western corner of that compound. You can see the frame around those stones, which was the signature of King Herod. One stone upon another. No cement. The average weight of those stones was 2-5 tons, which is an average elephant. Many of those stones weighed a lot more. 2,000 years later, still standing. This was a busy road. Imagine the stores, the vendors, local Jerusalemites, pilgrims, men, women, children, donkeys walking around. This was a vibrant place. This was a top-corner stone that fell from up there. On it is written, in Hebrew: "Le'beit hat'kiah lehach...", "To the place of announce..." It's not completed, but probably meant: "To the place of annunciation", which marks the place from where they announce the incoming of the Sabbath. Before going up to the Temple, the Jewish pilgrims were required to immerse their body in a ritual bath. Ritual baths, like this one, were found all over the place. One would come down on one side, and come out on the other in the status of ritual purity, ready to finally go up to the Temple. These stairs led up to the Temple. People would go up from over there and come down from over here. The Temple was a center of Jewish life at that time. Tens of thousands of pilgrims would come to Jerusalem three times a year, and go back home with new ideas that they learned here in Jerusalem. When Neil Armstrong was here, he asked his guide: "Was Jesus here? Did he walk up those stairs?" His guide said: "Yes, he had to." That's when Neil Armstrong said: "In this case, standing over here "is more emotional than standing on the moon." In the year of 66 C.E., the Jews started a revolt against the Romans, which led to the destruction of Jerusalem and the destruction of the Temple. Those stones fell from up there. That is the destruction. That destruction is one of the most memorable events in Jewish history. Imagine, 2,000 years later, we still have a fasting day in memory of that destruction. In a Jewish wedding, the groom breaks a cup in order to remember the destruction in times of happiness. We, Jews, remember really well. 1,400 years ago, the same place where the Temple was standing, was identified by Islam as "Al-Aqsa", the place to where Muhamad arrived on a night journey and went up to heaven to receive the deeds of prayer. This beautiful structure became the third holiest site for Islam, after Mecca and Medina, which means that the Jews had to find an alternative. And they identified this section of the wall. It was exposed, it was available, and became the holiest site for Jews in the world. The other sites that we visited, the stairs, the stones, the inscription, were all underneath the ground until the 70's of last century. Therefore the tradition did not develop there, but developed over here, which leads us back to the question: is a place holy because people pray there, or do people pray in a place because it is holy? 