 Hello everyone! In this video, we’re going to show you how to make a 4-wheel drive robot and control it using a smartphone. For making the robot you will need Evive. A Chassis DC motors, Wheels, Motor clamps HC-05 or HM10 Bluetooth module A Two-cell battery 3d printed two-cell battery holder Some jumper Cables And some bolts and nuts. Let's begin by making the base of the 4 wheel drive robot. Take a DC motor and fasten it to the motor clamp using 25mm M3 Bolts. Make sure to use the center holes of the clamp. Similarly, screw the other three motors too. Now, take the motor clamp and fasten it to the chassis using 8mm M3 bolts. Make sure that you fasten the clamps to the side which does not have evive’s logo. Now, let’s attach the wheels to the motors. Since the motor shaft has a specific shape, match it with the wheel’s hole to fit it easily. To hold the battery, fasten the 3d-printed battery holder  between the motors using M3 bolts of 8mm length Now, let’s bring in the brain of our robot: evive. Place evive on the side with evive’s logo printed on it and fasten it using M3 bolts of 12mm length by aligning the mounting holes on evive with the holes given on the chassis. Now, that the assembly is complete, let’s connect the motors to evive. First, connect M1 and M2 channel to the breadboard. Next, connect the motors on the left side in parallel with the motor channel M1 on the breadboard. Similarly, connect the motors on the right in parallel with the M2 motor channel. With this is our four-drive robot is ready. Let’s test whether all the motors rotate in the same direction or not. Switch ON evive. Then from its menu, select Controls, then Motors, and finally Motor 1 and 2. Slide both the slide switches upward. and rotate both the potentiometers clockwise. All 4 motors should rotate clockwise. if any motor rotates in the opposite direction, just interchange its connections. Now, let’s first power up our robot. We will be using an external battery for the same. Fit the battery inside the battery holder that we fastened to the chassis’s bottom.. Connect the battery to the VIN terminal on evive. And switch the jumper from VVR to VVS. Time to make our 4-wheel drive robot Smartphone Controlled. For controlling the robot using a Smartphone, connect the HC-05 Bluetooth module to the headers present on evive. You can also bend the module to fit it under the evive’s magic lid. It’s finally time to run the robot! Switch ON evive. Then, from its menu, navigate  to examples. Then, select Bluetooth Mobile Robot. Then, open Dabble on your Smartphone and control the robot effortlessly using the Gamepad Module. Hey guy! I hope you liked this video. Don't forget to share it with your friends and give it a thumps up. if you have anything that you'd like us to make next. Let us know in the comment section below. And for more such exciting DIY projects subscribe to STEMpedia. And follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Bubye! 