 To move efficiently on difficult terrain and explore the natural world without modifying the existing landscape, developing a robot which can adapt to different environments has become a thriving research topic in recent years. Inspired by animals which are the experts of motioning and exploration in the wild. We invented a novel leg-wheel transformable robot called TurboQuad. TurboQuad is equipped with a unique two-degree-of-freedom mechanism to accomplish in-situ leg-wheel transformation. Also, a novel bio-inspired control strategy called a Central Pattern Generator is applied to the robot to perform fast gait coordination and mode transition between wheeled mode, legged trotting and legged walking all while in motion. We use the cRIO-9024 compactRIO controller and cRIO-9118 compatRIO chassis to accomplish online trajectory planning. The coupling FPGA with digital and analog I/Os is utilized to connect all sensors and motor-driving modules. There are current sensors and encoders to detect the motor states as well as an IMU, incline meter, and infrared distance sensors to evaluate the posture of TurboQuad. Besides, the FPGA is also used as the basic PD controller to perform high speed position feedback control. The various sensors on TurboQuad, the powerful C-module, and compactRIO give TurboQuad the essential information and resource to execute online trajectory planning and feedback control. In addition to negotiating obstacles, TurboQuad is also used as a platform to develop different motion patterns and control strategies. Utilizing the ground truth measurement system, the performance of advanced feedback control systems like force and current feedback control can be evaluated on this platform. Besides, the model-based control according to R-SLIP and SLIP models are also tested and developed on TurboQuad. Thanks to the graphical programming language and many build-in functions like FIFO and lane communication, complex control systems can be built and tested in a short time. In the future, we're planning to develop more quadruped gaits to expand our "gait bank" to provide the robot with an even better adaptability to terrain variations. Also, we will keep focusing on control strategies with more sensor feedback to make the robot more versatile. For example, with the assistance of a vision system, the robot could perform automatic behavior switching according to the encountered terrain. In addition, the next-generation TurboQuad will be more agile and more power-efficient. We hope that through this project we can learn more about leg robotics and make a robot that can one day be used in a wide array of different applications. 