 In this course, you will practically learn the concepts of Robotics, From basics to advanced by building projects, And develop the skills needed for an exciting career in Robotics. The course helps students develop enough experience to apply for jobs, Or higher studies in Robotics with confidence. The course involves you to build multiple robots, And helps you develop a good understanding of Robotics practically. First, you will start by developing a line follower robot, That uses IR sensors to detect the path and follows it. Then, you will modify this robotics project further to perform obstacle following and obstacle avoiding robots. Next, you will build a mobile robotics project, Which can be controlled with your mobile phone using DTMF technology. Then, you will learn to build a gesture controlled robot that moves based on your hand gestures. Next, you will use Bluetooth as a medium to communicate with the robots And develop a robot that can be controlled using a smart phone. Then, you will use WiFi as a mode of communication And develop a robot that can be controlled from your laptop. Next, you will develop a voice controlled robot, Which receives commands through speech recognition technology, And actuates according to your voice commands. Then, you will design and build a firefighter robot that can detect fire, Move in that direction and put it off using a DC fan. Next, you will build a swarm robotics project where two robots communicate with each other and complete a task. Then you will move on to a slightly complex maze solver robot, which can solve the maze and come out of it intelligently. Finally, you will build an advanced level robot that uses computer vision technology to receive visual commands from a user and moves accordingly. This project also helps you to develop skills on computer vision. As part of the course, you will also learn to write programs to control the Robots. Building all these projects will help you master the concepts involved in Robotics, communication and programming and will put you in a great position to start a career. The course is based on Skyfi Labs Learn Do Review methodology which ensures that you learn the technical concepts in addition to building the projects. A topic like Robotics, can only be learned by building projects and Skyfi Labs makes the process super easy for you. Kits required will be shipped to your doorstep within 24 Hours. And you can complete the project from anywhere on earth and build your profile with smart certification. Using Skyfi Labs courses, you will not only build projects with a definite output but also learn the concepts involved in it. So you can attend and crack interviews with confidence. Start learning today and develop your profile for a great career in Robotics. 