 Irish Manufacturing Research is a public-private partnership between the Irish government and private industry here on the island of Ireland. Within IMR, we've got 63 manufacturing companies working with us today: 33 multinationals and 30 small and medium enterprises. Our job is to demystify, de-risk and deliver emerging technologies for these companies. These companies are very interested in looking at emerging technologies, such as the technologies that KUKA Robotics are delivering: these collaborative robotics, these autonomous vehicles that move around facilities and manufacturing organizations. We work with these manufacturing organizations in partnership with world leaders, such as KUKA Robotics to deliver solutions for these companies. One of the key research thematic areas that IMR work on is the whole area of Industry 4.0, and that spans everything from the digitization of manufacturing — putting sensors onto systems and machines digitizing these machines, pulling the data off the back of these machines so that you can get intelligent information from them and make business decisions on them. Another key component of that, of course, is the installation of advanced robotic systems in conjunction with this digitization to make the whole supply chain work much more efficiently. So IMR, part of its focus, is to work on all these types of technologies. We also work in the area of additive and 3D printing, and in fact the cell that you're looking at behind here is using robotic systems, such as the KUKA robotic systems, working in conjunction with the 3D printers to build the manufacturing line of the future. So, for KUKA, we're a manufacturer of robots and a provider of automation solutions. We feel it's extremely important to support national research and manufacturing associations across the globe, but in Ireland in particular we're looking at the IMR centre here in Mullingar. These are the guys who are particularly close to Irish manufacturing companies. They're the guys who help them to make the transition from manual processes to fully-automated processes. And in the doing of that, they allow them to become more competitive in a global market. It improves their quality and it improves their production yield. These are also the guys who push the boundaries of what robotics and automation can actually do and where it can be used, and by doing that they're opening up new applications and new markets for robotics and automation. We're working with different kinds of industries and companies from SMEs to multinationals to make them engaged with robotics and make them embrace the advantages that robotics can bring to them through the ease of use and adaptability of collaborative robots, such as the KUKA KMR iiwa. And we're doing great work also in disseminating what they can do and how they can remove the barriers that robotics can have for SMEs especially A big part of what we do in IMR is disseminating robotics and automation and more particularly for schools and kids that would see manufacturing as a big barrier or something that they can't have a career in. When we ask little girls or boys what they see as an engineer, they come up with these overalls and with a hard hat person and then after those workshops and those outreach programs, when we as them again, then it's totally different. They can see that it's actually reachable for them to access those exciting career paths, and especially for girls, who would have less exposure to engineering fields. So we're really excited to participate in those outreach programs and the partnership with KUKA helps bringing those possibilities to them. So two of the research projects I'm involved in are human-robot collaboration and mobile manipulation. So for human-robot collaborative projects, the idea is that the robot does the more mundane side of the task and we use humans to perform the dextrous, high-value-added part of the task. So in that way, we get the best of both worlds. And this allows us to eliminate all the fixed security systems around the industrial robot and free up factory footprint. So, we use the KUKA LBR iiwa robot as a collaborative robot and this high-sensitivity force allows it to carry out complex assembly tasks while the human is working alongside it. In contrast, for mobile manipulation the idea is that we move away from the fixed assembly-line structure of a factory to a more modular assembly line where the robot can deliver pieces on time for assembly to various parts of the factory. One of the obstacles in implementing collaborative robots is the lack of clarity around safety requirements. So typically what manufacturers have done has been to approach collaborative robots as they've approached industrial installations by building separations between the robot and the human. But the added capability of collaborative robots, in particular force and power limitations, means that this separation no longer needs to be strict. So at IMR, one of our goals is to demystify the safety requirements around collaborative robotics by building demonstrative applications showing that in fact humans and robots can collaborate together safely and in a way that improves productivity. 