 ArtiMinds, a provider of software solutions  for robotics and SHL, an expert in surface finishing applications collaborated to find new ways to improve process quality   and save time to set up robotic abrasive systems. The task is to equip the robot with sensitivity   to remove the exact amount of material in  order to achieve a consistent surface quality. In this project, a KUKA 6-axis robot, ATI force-torque-sensor, and an end-of-arm abrasive tool were used.  ArtiMinds helps to dominate the complex  field of robotics with its intuitive software solutions to program and operate robots. ArtiMinds RPS enables you to connect   standard hardware components effortlessly  and allows them to communicate with each other. The pre-developed templates allow  even unexperienced robotic users to create   robot programs, regardless of the selected hardware  and application complexity.   Via drag and drop, the user can easily create a process flowchart  that represents the robot program.   Templates vary from basic point-to-point motions,  over interfaces to hardware and software components,  logical conditions, up to sensor-based  motions with the input of force and vision data. An intuitive wizard system helps  to easily set and adapt all necessary parameters.  In the corresponding force template, the user can  quickly set, test, and adjust parameters in very short   trial and error cycles. In this example, the robot shall apply a contact pressure   between 39 and 41 newtons while following the specified path. Once all templates are parametrized the   ArtiMinds RPS automatically generates robot script  code in the native robot language. The KRL code runs directly on the KUKA robot controller so  with ArtiMinds, no additional hardware is required!   Simulating robot programs with  the corresponding CAD models   helps to lower the risk of unplanned movements  before they are executed on the real robot.  The software ArtiMinds Learning and Analytics for  Robots (LAR) automatically monitors and visualizes data   from the robotic system. Based on that additional  highly detailed information, the robot program   can be optimized in a far more efficient  way. In the first step it is helpful to get   an understanding of the interaction between  the robot, sensor, and workpiece. By browsing   through the timeline the runs that need to  be analyzed can be found and selected easily.   Since the LAR builds on top of the RPS the  used templates and created program structures   are displayed. We decide to analyze the first  and second abrasive movement: As the position   of the robot clearly changes over time the graph  provides information about the unevenness of the   workpiece and shows the compensation movements  from the robot at any point. With ArtiMinds LAR it is possible to gain process information  in such detail, even to a hundredth of a millimeter. In the next step, a force-time graph is used  to check if the desired force control accuracy has been met. The most obvious fact is the overshooting of the setpoint, which means   that for a short period of time, too much pressure was applied resulting in too much material removal. Having the knowledge about this undesired  behavior the user can quickly take action   by changing the specific parameters  of the force controller in ArtiMinds RPS. Again, the software automatically generates KRL code without having the user write a single line of it. With the changed parameter, the analysis clearly shows  that there is no overshooting anymore, which means   that the right parameters were set for this  application in just a few mouse clicks.  In this manner, the software solutions from ArtiMinds enable  companies to seamlessly monitor and optimize robot programs based on real-time data. In the dashboard  view users set up analysis and KPIs based on the   unique process data. Wear and tear of the sandpaper  might result in slight changes of the force-path diagrams   which can be easily monitored  using epsilon tiles and other advanced features. 