 Hello, this is Haley, who sees the world by numbers. The era of autonomous driving is coming If you have no idea what is Please watch this video to the end The first to lick the companies we visit I visited the self-driving robot company'Tweeny' I received a limited express tutoring If you watch the video all the way You will understand a lot about autonomous driving technology. So are you ready? I can explain it simply I can explain it complicatedly Briefly explaining this time Self-driving cars are cars You must travel on the road under the Road Traffic Law. I have to obey the road traffic laws. So, as if a person is driving You have to follow all the rules and go. But now, in the case of robots running indoors, You don’t have to There seems to be a limit to the distinction between indoor and outdoor There seems to be a difference between people riding or not About autonomous robots that many people are curious about I'll explain First of all, what is the purpose of an autonomous robot Given a destination The robot that goes to that destination by itself It’s called an autonomous robot. In general, what you need for an autonomous robot map And with the recognized data Recognizing your location Another important thing is when a destination is given I follow some path Will you go to your destination I need to navigate the way It’s called path-planning. Now in this indoor space like a robot To get to your destination You need to know the structure of the building Take it to any room Because you know how to get to your destination I need an indoor map But you don’t know the map So first the robot has to draw the map by itself. Through the sensor of the robot While moving Accumulating and accumulating sensor data Maps are being made It’s very similar to what people do Think about it I went to a new, first-going space Go to the model house I start to recognize the space as I look at this room This is the kitchen Oh, this is the master bedroom I fell well I love the veranda After looking around like this I go back to somewhere in the inner space later Where are you here? That's the kitchen you saw before! You can see Because I watched and in my head without knowing I drew that map The same Even these robots I shrugged once I made a map When I go back to that space, I’ll do the map I made Match the sensor data recognized now Now this data is among the maps I used to Matches perfectly to the kitchen I'm in the kitchen now With this recognition Can recognize their position Indoors without GPS It’s so important to be aware of your location By matching the map I drew and sensor data You will be aware of your location. The main sensor of this robot (autonomous driving for logistics) It is a 3D lidar sensor (about 5 million won) This sensor is made up of 16 channels 16 channels means Yo street Straight section distance Dada Dada Dada Be aware Again this section To recognize Then the distance of 2 lines will be recognized Again like this The streets in 16 layers 360 degree recognition If you draw the distance data as an image There are many dots You can recognize the space around you This 3D lidar sensor So the robot's eye Becomes the most important sensor But in general, when the robot is used, There may be people There are other robots In the case of distribution centers Boxes come in this much, stacked up, and then fall out So the recognized sensor data When I drew the map It completely changes I should be able to recognize it then Usually, the map was made in a neat state Sensor data recognized in real time You can’t match So in a complex and wide environment In general, you can’t use it that way Put the QR code on the floor You can recognize your location by looking at the code Or beacons that generate signals here and there After installing the UWB device If you get 3 or more signals With trigonometry I can recognize my location Just take 3 or more signals To recognize their location If the signal accuracy is inaccurate, the position will be less accurate. Because the more signals you receive, the better the accuracy I need to build a lot of infrastructure But that all costs money Another breakdown The whole system should be shut down This cost problem I thought it would be an obstacle in the end When I think No matter how complex and large space You must be perfectly aware of your location At least as much as humans do I thought that a robot should be able to do it I have been doing a lot of related research at Tweeny. In Tweeny, I'm sure Completely without infrastructure construction in any environment Can recognize their position About the first floor of a general mart 25 minutes to map (to draw a map) Fast Even when drawing the map, there should be no people I also got rid of this inconvenience For some reason If you don’t feel crowded Even if I make a map at that time You can create a clean map I tried it myself Follow Look at me The camera is looking together Is this a camera sensor? Yes, it is RGBD (Red-Green-Blue-Depth) sensor. Recognize the color It is a sensor that can also recognize distance. What's a sensor that runs so fast here? This is a 2D lidar sensor The distance of the section at this height It is a sensor that can recognize the surroundings. This is really cheap It costs only 200,000 won The lidar sensor (2D) usually costs about 1 million won. The RGBD camera is the main sensor for this robot (human-following type) This one is not recognized by the camera For the purpose of recognizing blind spots Because it is used as an auxiliary I'm using an inexpensive sensor The light is straight Because it only takes dots and reflects But the sound is from here Ah! If you do, you can hear all the sounds around you. You may have heard the person behind you. You can roughly recognize that something is here It's a very good sensor Is it recognition by sound? (Steamed Moon Course) Because the optical sensor has something like glass When I shoot the flash, the light is reflected and it doesn’t come. The light penetrates and goes out far away Then you can’t recognize the glass obstacles. What if I’m driving autonomously If there is a transparent obstacle like glass Because the ultrasonic sensor recognizes and the sound bounces out Are you becoming aware of it? Yeah Ultrasonic sensors are very cheap When reversing a car Just put in the reverse gear There is a beep beep It’s that sensor, but it’s very cheap. It costs only a few hundred won and a few thousand won Does this robot also beep beep? It would be fun to have a beep beep I'll put it on once (the CEO who takes it well) Blind spots are not completely gone To reduce blind spots, sensors are attached To complement I would like to have this robot, but what will the price be? It costs about 20 million won I'll give it a special sale to Haley. Yes, how much can you do?? I'll give you 15 million won If you use a GPU, the price increases gradually. With minimal computation It was important to create high performance Because I paid a lot of attention to that It is processed by the processor that is used in a general PC. When a destination is initially given Because the interior space is composed of various walls Which route will I follow to my destination I need to navigate the way It’s called path-planning. Actually, we are very It’s a technology that you can meet a lot Go to use in car navigation It’s the same way robots do. Even the characters in the game If you just shoot a specific destination You can see it moves in the shortest distance At that time, finding the path that the characters travel The same algorithm is used to calculate it. However, if you follow the destination route, it crashes. Because there are obstacles that are not on the map How to avoid obstacles well How to follow that path well This is a field where many researchers are still working hard The experiment with this robot is when obstacles appear Flexibly and effectively avoid We are doing a lot of experiments to find a different way. Logistics center, mart, hospital, airport, etc. Rather than stopping at such a place because there are obstacles To avoid being flexible like humans I prefer it more To do such experiments I'm using this robot Because I am now I just shift the direction a little and move I'll try to disturb the robot Find the right direction and avoid it. I'll interfere with CEO Cheon Young-seok once I'll try to interfere again To avoid it according to the situation When I need space, I go back When I can go right away, just See if there is space behind it I will not have enough space to avoid Then it keeps sticking There is no space, so go backwards Compare which sensor is better How to use which sensor for what purpose We keep worrying What you need for an autonomous robot map And recognizing your location with the recognized data Another important thing Which route will I take to my destination 