 THAT is really awesome: almost at the same time have two research teams from Germany and Norway a silicon-based battery built, compared to the ordinary Lithium-ion technology can do a lot more. The new battery from Germany, for example has ten times the charge capacity and even his charging process takes only a few minutes. What? Clixoom Science & Fiction Heir is available daily fascinating science videos. Subscribe to the channel, only then you miss Let's go and thank you for your suggestion from the Whats App Community! Welcome. Who does not know: Only three percent Battery pack! And of course always in unfavorable situations: For example, if you have an important one Call or make an urgent call Wants to send a message. The dream of all mobile phone users: a long one Battery life - combined with a short Charging time! It's probably the same for all users of Electric cars! And those dreams might be soon Become reality - an invention from Germany hope for that now. A research team from Kiel has a battery built on the basis of silicon and that Result is promising. So far, one starts in the battery technology Graphite anodes. But in this novel battery was as Anode material silicon installed. And it's actually ideal for because it stores significantly more energy than Graphite. The research team has 500 charges and discharges already made and shown that the Charging just twelve minutes lasts. A corresponding battery based on the lithium-ion technology based, would take five hours. Silicon is in the earth's shell - for oxygen - the second most common element: so it is widely available and has extremely favorable Material properties. For example, it is flame retardant, what a Another advantage in battery technology represents. The biggest problem was for the research team from the mechanical instability of silicon. Because when loading it expands by 400 percent and can break so fast. It's all based on its high energy density, so that many lithium ions are absorbed become. But how exactly does the research team have these Challenge solved? They brought the silicon into the microstructure a thin wire. So it was flexible and could the strong expansion survive well. For some time scientists have Scientist in the field of electromobility Silicon identified as a great bearer of hope. Because of course: electric cars would have such a significantly higher range. But also the problem with the cell phone batteries could be a thing of the past so soon and other battery powered products could be optimized. For example, hearing aids that continue could be downsized. Now the scientists from Kiel, the cathode also continues to optimize. The idea is to build them out of sulfur and so the storage capacity of the battery continues to maximize. All this would be a huge step forward and almost too good to be true. Because this idea is not only in the sense of Researchers and the user, but also in the sense the environment. But then really a breakthrough in the battery technology would have to but then also the jump from the research laboratory succeed in industrial manufacturing. Uuuuund: Almost at the same time as the research team from Kiel also have scientists Scientists from Norway on this concept fiddled. Here the project has already progressed that the technology is now being patented and industrial testing. The Norwegian work was also about Silicon finally in larger quantities than To be able to obstruct anode material - and that despite its enormous expansion during the charging process. The scientists did that through the combination of graphite and silicon. So was the maximization of silicon content achieved and by the graphite content at the same time prevents a radical expansion. Again, this project would, for example revolutionizing electromobility: future ones Electric cars could travel about 1000 kilometers - with only one charge. And even smartphones could run for days. But until we actually do it in everyday life We will certainly benefit as well be patient for a few more years. I really get a little goose bumps, though I think about the future with such batteries. And geese hat, they are also in this Video premiere on the English Clixoom channel: Smaller than a grain of rice - the tiniest computer on earth I'm looking forward to seeing you on the English channel. See you soon - stay tuned! 