 Hello viewers, this is BatteryMan I once briefly mentioned 'ANAPRO' code 121600 In the future, more thorough data research and We will try to deliver more quality information through analysis. Crazy man on battery You may have heard of famous 3 magical powder additives I enjoy watching on YouTube On the Sampro TV channel You have shown in-depth insights. So while preparing this video The report of ANP company code 121600 I think I've read everything that's out there So if you summarize them in two sentences. First, the carbon nanotube cnt market for batteries will be 2billion USD in 2025 We are making an estimate of about 2 billion USD And when the cnt is used for the battery dispersion technology is very important A company that can do it The report says that the only ANAPRO is currently It can be seen as the key point Then first, what is cnt? What is it? I will briefly explain it in the background and move on. First of all, in order to improve the electrical conductivity in the battery electrode Carbon should be used as an additive So in the past, it was carbon black If you used a spherical form of carbon Now what the battery industry wants to do is this fiber If you change your morphology in this form, More effectively with less Can improve electrical conductivity So now the industry is going to change it. Is the background I studied related topics in my master's thesis The picture you see is an electrode SEM picture It is a silicon graphite composite electrode. The amount of silicon to be commercialized is about 5%. The topic I studied was about graphite, called silicon, 50-50 I studied the battery electrode inside So, you see platelet shape that looks so wide That is graphite And the nano size The things that stick together are silicon And if you look closely like this The part like the hair is carbon fiber. But this is important for distributed technology If you look here, this carbon fiber does not spread well I was able to find the tangled part like this That’s why distributed technology is important To give you, I briefly explain this photo So variance is It should be spread evenly like this So now here As you can see in the picture, in the case of D or C This is the part where the sedimentation is almost done. So this is not very good dispersion On the other hand, part A is dispersed out so well Making this well It is known as a technology possessed by ANAPRO So if you look at the Magic Powder Stock Report It is very well organized In this way, battery shipments from the market size Silicone additives in the cnt we should see now market size penetration rate And the unit input amount and sales unit price are well indicated When making this estimate. I have to build assumptions All these estimates come from home. When we estimate the market size of 2 bil USD now There are important assumptions Those important assumptions are: So first Non-Tesla battery shipments become 619 gigawatt hours And the unit input amount is 0.3 kg/kWh And cnt penetration rate so Changing from carbon black to cnt in the battery electrode I think it’s called the penetration rate. If that’s the cathode material now, 68% In the case of anode material, it will be about 43%. And the selling price will be in 2025 Will be 9 US dollars / KG they made the assumptions like this First look at the first assumption In the case of non-Tesla battery charge, Now, to estimate, the battery In the case of energy, the international energy agency (IEA) such a big world organisation like WHO First, give me an initial estimate after that Whether it’s a research center or a private company Well, in such a place, now using that number as a reference It is reproduced in a way that changes it little by little And even reproduced. So anyway battery from IEA Electricity batteries need 1,000 gigawatt hours by 2025. they anounced Next, the forecasts needed are Tesla and How many does a non-Tesla take, how long does a Tesla electric cars sell? Then the other conventional combustion engine How Car Makers Sell Electric Vehicles Bringing this forecast again It'll be this much You can bring several and average data You can add more weight to some parts That way, with these two assumptions Non-Tesla battery shipments 619 GWh they have made an estimate like this The rest of the assumptions, tkae into account this kind of reference When the research centers think It would be this much We make these assumptions necessary for estimating the size of this industry. When I did it that way In the case of the cnt market, It can be concluded that it will be 2 bil USD First of all, this is the right part you need to verify if this number sounds good But this video, I'll move on now Through the process in this way Now the cnt conductive material market will be in 2025 It will be about 2 bilion USD I can now make a forecast Then actually 2.2 trillion won with 4 assumptions Whether we can be sure about the forecast Let’s check it together So, the non-Tesla battery shipment was 619 gWh Then the unit input is 0.3 kg/KWh So I need about 180,000 tons of CNT Cathode material cnt market size and anode material The market size was divided like this and it was shown in the table So, if you multiply the unit input and the unit price, Cathode material market size And the scale of the anode material market comes out. Taken together, 1894 Unit is million USD So if you look at the estimates that are out now, it's 1900 Million USD so I confirmed that the same result was produced. However, for me as a battery major, the unit input amount is a bit strange. 0.3KG It looks very high at my standard So how much cnt is needed for a 1kWh battery I'll do verification Now 1 kWh battery is about 1.3 to 1.5KG of cathode material And in case of anode material, about 1KG is required. You can calculate this quickly Average voltage is 3.6 volts And knowing the cathode material capacity between 150 and 200 If you calculate it, you can get it right away. I'll skip this here The next thing you should see is the battery electrode formulation Active material carbon in case of cathode material And the ratio of the binder is approximately 96:2:2 And in the case of anode material, it is 97:1:2 And in the case of anode material, it is 97:1:2 Because graphite has good conductivity You don’t have to have a lot of carbon additive It comes out well here too In the case of conductive material 2 Active material 96 Binder 2 In the case of the cathode, here is I used the silicone one Graphite alone does not change the amount of conductive material electrode formulation It’s confidential. It’s different for each company. For batteries that produce a lot of energy or batteries that produce a lot of power The formulation is also slightly different depending on that. Fast, fast charging that wants to increase power In such a battery, the conductive material ratio is slightly increased. You can know this as a reference now It may be slightly different from company to company I think you can know it like this So then take this Now how much cnt you need In reverse calculation, 1.5 KG Electrode of cathode material we saw now Substituting 96 to 2 formulation costs 1 kWh 0.03KG for battery So you need 30G CNT Similarly for anode materials If you calculate it, you need 10G cnt Now when we look at the unit input in this report, per 1kWh You said you need 0.3KG, so it's almost 10 times or over 20 times So this is wrong Now, when it comes to market size The market size is 2.2 bilion because it is fried 10 times more No, it has to be 200 million USD to be correct. But look at the report again There is a part we need to address now This report is Mirae Asset Daewoo Report This about ANAPRO This is the first report on the same content. So if you see it here We have to look at this part Powder type cnt 10G Silver solution type cnt standard 200G So it means that the concentration is 5% If you calculate again now with this, 0.03 KG cnt This is pure solid amount now So, when you make a 5% solution, you need 0.6KG When making a 1kWh battery Then in case of emergency Also, if you calculate the same, 0.2KG is required. So, as the standard of the anode material The report says Electric vehicle battery capacity 40 kWh When the battery is used He said that 8KG CNT application is expected. If you substitute the formula I calculated now, it fits perfectly. It says that you need 8kg And the second point LG Chem is now producing cnt He said it was about 40,000 won per kilometer. However, the price of new nanomaterials is $10 per kilo. it makes sense more buy the part here It’s diluted with water. Next, I'll put inje dispersion system After that, we have to put in this distributed technology margin as well That way, if you say 10 dollars now, Well, the numbers are coming out So my thoughts are like this As these ANAPRO reports reproduced the same information, To some extent, the original meaning has become a little unclear For me like a battery major It seems to have brought about this misunderstanding. So, the calculated cnt unit input is 5% When you think of it as a solution, it makes sense So our first point, carbon nanotubes for batteries It is estimated to be around 2 bil USD in 2025. Well, I have confirmed that it is somewhat correct Then the second When using the battery cnt, an important point Distributed technology is important He said that the only possible company is ANAPRO Now I'll check this one 