 Okay, welcome to energy engineering lecture today. It's my great pleasure to introduce guest speaker, Professor Yi Cui from material Science Engineering in Stanford University. Professor Cui [INAUDIBLE] in Chemistry from University of Science and Technology of China in 1998. And he came to Harvard, he only teach the Degree in Chemistry in 2002, followed by a couple years of foster at University of California Berkeley before he joined Stanford in 2005. Since he joined Stanford, he has an amazing the field of nanomaterials and their applications in energy conversion and storage. Electronics, biotechnology, and environmental technology. And his research focus on not only fundamentals of nanomaterials. But also development of low cost of processing to address critical issues in real world applications. But his efforts and contribution can be easily seen by the each index which is 174 with total 170,000 factors [INAUDIBLE]. And his work has been recognized by numerous awards that I will not spell out in the interest of time, but I would like to point out one thing that he has been quite entrepreneurial. He has founded three companies, Amprius, [INAUDIBLE] and DNA Technology, and all of them have been successful. So I stopped here, so that you had enough time to talk about this research on nanomaterials design for energy, let's welcome Professor Yi Cui.  [APPLAUSE]  Thank you, Young for the really nice introduction. I would like to thank the Energy System Institute who invited me to come. I'm looking at the audience, actually Conair has a bigger energy club at Stanford, so it's absolutely. Yeah, I agree today learning the about the research. I say, my God, I wish I could be a graduate student right here, working for some of the faculty right here. This just made my day is really exciting really exciting, very creative. I want to spend the next 15 minutes to share with you on the topic of energy storage alone, when I was invited, I was in beaches. I put out a broader title, last night when I was preparing my slides. And having been with Young, he was asking me what I was going to talk about today. I was still thinking to include the textile research, but there's no way in 15 minutes. I will focus on energy storage, the thinking on the materials interface design. So with it's only a faculty, I mean, this working on energy, it's not really by my design at all. I remember when I finished my post-doc, 2005 at Berkeley, and meet you and I were in the same lab I don't know whether you remember my proposal. The factory proposal, I didn't propose to work on energy really that much and but this is a big transition. When I took the job at Stanford and the last year, I was at Berkeley and Steve to move to Berkeley as the Lawrence Berkeley lab director. So he was encouraging everybody to go into clean energy, I thought well, that's a really big challenging. We need to solve and let me risk my career to do so, so going to Stanford. I start energy program, after a number of years, Steve actually came back to Stanford and we started to collaborate. 2017, we wrote this perspective, and look at about a decade's effort, particularly supported by the Department of Energy what has been done. And it's revealed this is our John [UNKNOWN] he just joined Georgia faculty recently. There's one particular thing is, the solar electricity, renewable electricity, the price, the cost is going down so fast. We are talking about $0.03 per kWh available on average very soon. Certainly some region of the world like Saudi Arabia you already seen purchasing prices less than $0.03 per kWh. So we could expect in a couple of decades, we are talking about one to two cents per kilowatt hour electricity, possible. Then using electrons to do chemistry, combined with material, become more and more important. So that means policies, batteries, fuel cell, all these related technologies could be more and more important. So today, I just want to focus on just the battery one, but let's look at where we are right now, based on lithium ion. This is the calibration technology I want to use. So if you look at the energy density 250 watt per kilo, that's roughly in your Tesla car. And can you go to topple and the cell level, gets a 500 hour per kilo. What it really means is once you get to this energy density for reasonable size or battery pack in your car, you have 500 miles driving range. So far past lies about 250 miles, 300 miles also, and also the sale cost needs to go down by a lot, by a lot. That you need to develop new chemistry in there and material needs to be low cost, and abundant, and so on, these need to come. In cycle life, about a thousand cycles in seven years, I'm using typical numbers, you can see some here number 3,000 cycle. Can you go to 10,000, 11,000 cycle range, 30 years? So you can really going from car up to car retire, take that battery pack and use them for the electrical grid. Charging time 1 to 2 hours typically, to 10 to 15 minutes. And we don't know how to do that yet even thought he simple charge advertised, let's say 30 minutes somewhere around there gets you 80%. But you don't really want to do it so often. You might be sacrificing your battery life a lot and eventually, from not safe to safe. I mean, all these parameters I'm listing right there their technology parameters looks like varied engineering. But this can loop back all the way to the size the understanding of how electrons ions are moving in the materials across the interface and the chemical reaction taking place and so on. So over the past decade also my global energy storage, one target is to enhance the energy density going from let's go from 250 to 500 while per kilo, that you need to look into the really new materials. Silicon is the one we have been working on for decade, these are metals in the past five years coming up like crazy. And phosphorus is a new [UNKNOWN], with recently having a paper coming out and really emphasize how phosphorus can help fast charging. Sulfur catalyst is extremely important. If you notice the price of cobalt going up in the past several years, it's going crazy. I mean, for a long time, sulfur will be very, very important. It's low cost, abundant, it can offer high energy and combine with metallic lithium. And then how do you come up with a solid electrolyte, whether it's ceramics or the polymer That can enable safe battery operation and can help lithium metal as well. And so we need characterization tool to understand how the battery works. And we look at the whole list of this topic right here my group is working on. I also notice and comment, you guys have an excellent group working on a number of different topics right here, ranging from lithium metal, the electrolyte, from basic electro-chemistry, to the new tool of characterization. And that really made my day today, in learning about an exciting activity right here. So let me start by looking into the high energy materials. What’s the material design needed, right? If you look at the graphite right here, moving away from graphite to silicate, you have ten times higher capacity to lithium metal about ten times higher, and positive electrodes moving from this transition metal oxide, lithium base to sulfur. And this a new high capacity material show one thing, that is, I'm going to show you the challenge later but this is the roadmap possibly enabled, 250 watt hour per kilo right now. If you could make silicone to work and combine with this what we call MMC, right? This will get you somewhere around 500. And lithium metal coming in with MMC, this 400 goes to 500 and then potentially, 600 and above. But to make that happen, those material thinking and interface thinking needs to change. And the traditional host materials, we know host lithium ion coming in, whether it's graphite or lithium cobalt oxide and this host material is stable. There's really no chemical bond breaking, right there in the host material though intercalation, in and out, very nicely, very gentle. And the host, new host materials store so many more lithium ions, you have no choices. You dumping in so many lithium ions, so many electrons, you are chopping down the chemical bond inside these host materials. And host that happens will need to move because of significant bounding change, large volume expansion, right, complete structural change, you're talking about ten times or more volume change compared to traditional materials. These are the challenges we have to face, how do you design the materials to overcome this completely different paradigm of change? And the nano scale, and the interface, and the whole electrode and the cell scale. So now let me share with you the first learning we have. We started this on silicon. And I still remember, I was a young faculty, junior faculty of staff. I was hiring my first graduate student. One night I was learning about battery. I didn't know about battery at all when I joined the faculty. I didn't tell her about that by the way. I was telling her, I have a great idea let's work on it. So I go to the library, read about this, I teach her tomorrow, right, next day and then next day, I learn a little bit more. I come back to share a little bit more. She also teach me as well and mutually we are growing in the same time. I was telling my students, this is joke. But I think that's absolutely true, if you're joining an assistant professor's lab, you are joining a leaking boat.  [LAUGH]  You need to all work very hard to save time. Otherwise, you sink together. I told my students about that. So they kind of like it, because they know professor needs to work as hard as they would need to do. We started to do that together. So silicon volume expands ten times, right, four times, sorry. And then it's going to break. And then this break can cause a lot of problem. If you break you lose electrical contact, you expose large surface area. And the second thing is, the solid electrolyte interface, each of this particle will react with organic electrolyte and endo potential is so low a lot of reduction in power. If you have volume expansion and contraction keeps going, you don't have a stable interface. So how do you cycle these batteries? So we started from this one. For me, it's not too hard to come up with this idea. Some of you know, I worked for Liber as a graduate student, I know how to grow nanowires very well. I told my first graduate student, Candice Chen, I said, Candice, let's make some silicone nanowires. Probably we can solve the breaking problem. Smaller guys don't break that easily, right? So we come up with this hypothesis. [INAUDIBLE] these on the current collector. And this is connected with current collector. So you can relax the strain, it doesn't break, and you maintain electrical contact. So it not only works, we see it's a lot more stable compared to before. This is the paper, probably got me tenure to stay at Stanford after that. So over the years, we have been thinking about what's really that perfect material we need. We know silicon needs to be smaller now, otherwise it will break. And then become a core-shell structure, having a stable core and a shell silicate. This helps stabilize silicon, so this is good. And we thought about hollow structure. Hollow have an interior space, can relax the strain fast. This also help. But [UNKNOWN] this design can solve one problem that's a very difficult one. If you keep having volume expansion to what's outside facing electrolyte, you are not having a stable interface, you can build that inter-facial layer, that's really tough. That really bothered me for several years until this publication, I came up with this idea, what about I make a double wall hollow structure. The blue is silicon. The red color is actually silicon oxide, mechanically, very strong confined silicon. Volume expansion towards inside instead of outside. Inside have this hollow space, so outer surface never move, so this stabilized silicon. We see that this cycle 6,000 cycles with stability. After this I say, well, I'm convinced silica will be able to go into industry. Breaking problem is solved if they're small enough. And then you can build stable interface. The rest becomes how do you make them low cost, and then with high yield for the industry to use. So we have been through this now 12 generations. So I won't go into the detail of that, don't worry. So indeed, 2008, I founded Amprius, and that was about 11 years ago. I was a little bit struggling whether I should do a startup company. I didn't have tenure yet, but somehow, after VC talked to me a number of times, I was convinced, maybe I should do it. Let me learn how to start our company, so they told me about this. We raised roughly now a $150 dollars, now just two product line on the market. One is the 750 watt hour per liter, 290 watt hour per kilo, right? Remember the Tesla one is about 250, 260, adding a little bit silicon into graphite, you boost up that to 300. 750 watt hour per liter for your cell phone. I'll give you a number, it's about 650 to 700 watt hour per liter. So we are higher. But line 2, this one is incredible, this one is using silicon nanowires. This one, actually we are supplying the battery to the Airbus, the commercial drone, the Zephyr S. This one having 435 watt hour per kilo, 1200 watt hour per liter, very high energy. This allowed Airbus to break the world record, 25 days continuous flying at the elevation of 70,000 feet, no stopping. This combined solar cells and stored the electricity for about six hours. The rest of 18 hours rely on battery. So that's why you need very high energy density. So this is starting to get into the commercial world very fast. So after I founded Amprius, so my silicone program I have to slowly phase out, now keeping a small program right there. Continued doing that, a few other things, I see there is still scientific problem I have to overcome So what's next? This is the exciting opportunity. So two years ago White House announced Battery500 program. It's for how do you develop 500 watt per hour per kilovolt batteries, and silicone will not be able to do that as an anode. We need to work on metallic lithium. This is collab by PNL National Lab, and Stanford, and Slag, and June is the director and [UNKNOWN] is the co-director. I noticed Stan is coming, Stan Wittingham on your energy day. Stan is one of our co-PI in the team right there. In order to make 500 watt per kilovolt batteries we needed to work on metallic lithium. Lithium sulfur is one of the technology choice to get us 500 watt per kil. Another one is lithium metal, together with high nickel, MMC. So both technology paths require us to work on metallic lithium. I want to spend most of my time, let's look at metallic lithium. What's the challenge or idea, how do we design materials for metallic lithium? So, this is the problem, we learn from literature, also from my own group's research, I mean right here Lyndon Archer's group is working very actively on metallic lithium, having a lot of great work coming out. So this is the one, lithium metal, we interface with liquid electrolytes forming the SGI, so electrolyte interface. If you do the plating, metal plating process, it's very hard to control, you can get layer by layer, very flat plating, that will be really hard to do. Then you cause the surface curvature change. This cause the cracking of your interfacial layer, SCI. If you have a crack right here, that’s rare that that position, common density will focus on that, easily blow out filimental structure. This can grow out and show the [UNKNOWN] so-called dendrite. When you say dendrite usually it's dendritic, but now people mix up filament, and dendritic structure coins as one term, kind of wire type of structure. Very [UNKNOWN] during the battery discharge, and there's no guarantee go from top to bottom. Imagine [UNKNOWN] from the bottom. Then you are going to disconnect this filament. You're losing lithium all the time, and over cycle before too long, the battery already lose so much, and these high surface area of lithium reacts with organic electrolyte. You consume electrolyte so fast. So you have to remember to make a real battery, you need about 3 milliamp hour per centimeter square or higher capacity. That's equivalent to 15 micron [UNKNOWN] of lithium if they are flat and dense. So every time you plate 15 microns you strip 15 microns. This up and down per layer, it's just too much. How do you build a stable interface, there's no way. So looking at this as a Chinese, probably as a Korean as well you like to draw something like this. You say, well back to the bottom, what's the root causes right there? So there's two right here. High chemical reactivity of lithium, and also this relative volume change is infinite, going to fill empty space completely. ThIs change is too dramatic. The rest are the phenomenons. You see the bad things taking place. So in order to solve all this problem let's come up with solution for the root causes first. So we build research program, Steve come back to Stanford in 2013, and we have a really nice chat. We say what's the most important material we work on? Identify metallic lithium, we've got to solve this problem. So we need to build stable interface, overcome that high chemical reactivity issue, and a few years ago we come up this idea, we say well people use lithium metal foil all the time, which you learn from graphite. You need a host, hosting lithium, and the graphite case, you're hosting atomically thin of lithium atoms right here. Here we want to host metallic lithium between the layer, between the host materials. Then you can stabilize the whole electrostructure. Now let me share with you some of this learning, and all the way looking back to the very fundamental material science, the first question we ask is, how does the lithium nucleation take place? When you plate lithium, they got to nucleate somewhere. If you have lithium foil, that's one case. You can also have copper foil idea. That's heterogenous nucleation. If you have a copper foil, it deposit lithium. I want to try my lithium that position with different over potential. That is also different current density. High carbon density, you use a higher overpotential. Then classical heterogeneous nucleation theory teaches us, the radius of a nuclei will go down if you increase over potential, but the number density will go up as the function of [UNKNOWN]. That's Costco Nucleation Theory, is teaching us. Then we say we tried this nucleation of using different count density from low to high, and then this is what you expect to happen, in lower potential you have smaller number, but each nuclei will be bigger, but in the high current density, you will have a lot of nuclei, they will be a lot smaller. If we actually map out this, this is the nucleus size, with carbon density increase you see the radius, the size is decreased, is one over, over potential relationship. These are some of the images, and in the lower carbon density to a higher, and higher, and even higher you see the number density right here is increased, but they will look a lot smaller. If we actually go in and count it a few hundreds of those particles and confirm this is really the heterogeneous nucleation. The theory described is a case very well. Notice this, if you look at the copper, you want to deposit lithium electrochemically, and you monitor the potential that that position happened, but you have a nucleation barrier that is overshooting a potential nucleation happen, and then the deposition happen. You have about 40 milliwatts of overpotential at the nucleation coming back to the plating. This is on copper, and the very low carbon density of ten microamp per centimeter squared, and then if you look at a substrate like gold, it's very different. Lithium coming in, alloy with gold, you see a plateau, telling you it's forming an alloy phase. You have a little bit over potential, the second alloy phase, and then lithium metal deposition happens right here, but there's no nucleus barrier right here. We look at this, we say wow, that's different. Let's see what's going on between copper and lithium and gold and lithium. It's very handy actually, first thing you check is phase diagram and material size, and you look at gold and lithium. Let's look at the right-hand side. It turned out to be gold has solubility and lithium. If you have gold right here, we keep adding lithium, we are working from phase type from left to right, and alloy phase somewhere in the middle, a second alloy phase at room temperature, and then this lithium atom coming in, having the ability to dissolve all the gold atoms away. You make gold more and more look like lithium. Before lithium that position take place. So this is now our potential, because gold is completely look like lithium. But between copper and lithium, copper has no solubility in lithium. Copper is FCC, different atomic size, different lattice constant, lithium is BCC, it's a very different crystal structure idea. So, lithium nuclear on copper has over potential. Using this idea let's screen a bunch of materials, and this is gold, silver, zinc, magnesium, and you see they always shoot the voltage curve up so you can see clearly. They don't have over potential. If you go look at a face diagram, this metals they can all be dissolved in lithium. And then you look at something like copper, nickel, cobalt, they have no solubility in lithium. They have over protection right there. So with this idea we say, well, we could do something right now allow us to control veil lithium will go. If you form dendrite, dendrite will grow. You lose control, but we want to first of all spatially control within that position. So we design experiment. This is a corporate substrate with gold line pattern and then you deposit lithium electric chemically. You see the lithium all go on to the gold line and grow from right there. They don't want they don't like cold plant at all. Of course, this is under the current density. You can now try to high current density. If you too high current density, over potential will be too big to drive that and then you lose the control weather is gold or copper and here is about we can get about 2.5 million per centimeter squared count to see this. With this idea, we could realize spatial deposition, spatial control of lithium metal deposition. Now we can assign a host to say lithium go into this structure, don't go anywhere else. Now, we design a whole carbon sphere. Inside, we'll have this gold nanoparticle as seeds. For demonstration, we use gold. That's expensive, but we don't have to use gold. Your magnesium, zinc, we show that it can also work just for convenience. So if you grow this amorphous carbon, you have particles in there. Now you do electrochemical deposition and Lisa wanted to desire. That's the position will happen outside or inside. But because inside has seeds easy to nucleated, our hypothesis is under reasonable current density not too high, we can get lithium deposition in there and settle outside. So we made this structure using template method silicon dioxide and then particle coated, carbon coated and dissolve silicon oxide way. So this carbon shell has a nanometer holes than aqueous solution [INAUDIBLE] silicon oxide. But we don't want this hole to be too big. If it's too big, why you build a basis? The organic electrolyte can also come in, but that's what we don't want. So we needed to do a good job in getting this carbon layer without big pinholes right there. So we made this happen. Kai was a [INAUDIBLE] in my group. And having these particles, dark color inside this hollow carbon, then you say, well, what's the ideal number of gold you want to have? We didn't have experience. Let's say, let's just throw tons of them in there. Apparently and your current density, your power density, the charging speed depends on certain degree. How many gold particles you have in there. The more nucleation you have, that's better. All right, so now let me show you, this is in-situ TEM. We do that procedure inside this hollow carbon to convince your lithium has this ability to dissolve gold away. This is a gold of particle. You see, this is halo carbon. Now, we place on lithium. And there, you see gold get dissolve away and then you can also strip lithium out and see how the golds will come back. This is tripping now. You see this gold particle comes back. So conforming our idea of why gold can function as a really nice sheet. So with this, we have to build a real battery electrode. These are the particles with gold particles sits in the hollow carbon and then you deposit lithium, you don't really see the over-potential. Now, you can deposit in capacity right there. You don't really see lithium metal filament growing outside. You don't see that. But if you only have hollow carbon alone, you see this filamental structure jumping out. So the fall time case will be a lot more stable,, because now carbon sphere function as interface really isolating metallic lithium from the organic. Actually, you have a host hosting metallic lithium right there. So they don't just grow randomly doing all the bad things. So is this understanding, then we ask the question. Is this amorphous carbon the best, what about you turn amorphous carbon become graphitic? So it will take a nickel a particle and then we can deposit some golden nanoparticles there, and then all we have is organic sauces heated up at 450 degrees. It's very well-developed. With nickle, it's a catalyst can cloak our feet and then we'd call this thin layer. There's still some pin right here, then it wash away the nickle. Now we have a graphetic, carbon. The reason graphitic carbon is good, graphitic carbon is very resilient mechanically. If you have an amorphous carbon hollow sphere, if you press on it, it can break so easily. Now with graphitic carbon, you can press on it and it will be still stable. So mechanically, that's a good thing. When you build a battery your anode and cathode are separated and it needs to press together, this will allow you to do that. So now this space, right? We place lithium in there. This is empty one if you cut cross section, you can see it. You place lithium in there. You can see lithium filling the space inside these graffiti carbon, but there will be a limit. We can control that to be about three ml or five ml per centimeter squared. So this is good, lithium metal deposit inside. What's surprising to us is my student keeps plating this beyond 5 million. I'll go to 10 million hour per centimeter per square. He deposits so much more lithium metal and this interior space cannot hold, and then it will start to grow out. But to our surprise, this doesn't. Maybe this one looks better right here. This lithium plating forming this cross section wise very dense layer, right? We don't see that dendritic growth. I was expecting if you plating outside, I'm going to see lithium dendrite. But somehow, we don't see that. Now outside, we don't have the sits anymore. We don't have the gold sits. Lithium just plating on to graphitic carbon. That's something we still need to understand more why you can play so nicely. So all these nice plating translate into this blue curve. So for coulombic efficiency, if you plate lithium and stripping, how many you can get out? The coulombic efficiency is much higher, more stable, less reaction with the electrolyte. So this just keeps going and then the next question we also ask. We now we are going to have a pinhole on the wall of carbon whether there is graphitic or not, but even a pinhole in photosynthesis if you're not careful if you're pinhole is big and an electrolyte can leak in. This is one of the case you can expect with this pinhole with an electrolyte. An electrolyte goes inside, so that's not good. So what we want is even with this pinhole, we can seal the pinhole. So then we started to use the atomic layer deposition layout. Even this pinhole, we code it with a layer of aluminum oxide, then you'll see the pinhole. Electrolyte will not come in, then you can do the deposition inside, cuz lithium iron can be fill through this aluminum oxide. No problem, lithium iron is very small, very power, very few material can block the lithium iron diffusion. So we actually made a whole electro, a hollow carbon and syllabus al di, right? And then one experiment we were trying to prove. This is good. If you have pinhole right,, the sample you added sodium chloride assault. Aqueous solution, you dip it in, and then you're going to see lithium, sorry, the sodium chloride deposition inside of this hollow carbon if you cut across such as ALD coating you cut it open. You rarely see the sodium chloride deposition inside, this is telling you the electrolyte will not get in, if you can do the sealing. So with this, you can see that the stability of electro when you do charging, this charging coulombic efficiency measurement can last much, much longer now. So this is just still going, but eventually, to view a bare field electrode, electrochemical storing of lithium metal into a house will be too high cost. We say we need to invent new processing, we can build a battery electrode that already stole lithium inside a house. So several years ago, my group started to develop, first time the molten lithium infusion method into the house. Things I'm just [UNKNOWN] as a postdoc, and, yeah, you just showed me an MIT as a postdoc recently. So but the first thing we tried, once you now molten metal lithium, right, form a molten lithium right there. And you see this lithium balls, stay, they don't like to wrap this carbon, and we start to see, wow, that's something I haven't seen before. Because rarely people melt lithium this way, so we did that, but make sure you do it in the glove box, so I don't do it outside. Your boss will be very mad at you if you do it outside. So until we tried graphene oxide, it melts, it actually goes in, this is probably better, look at the other screen. Apparently, there's a [INAUDIBLE] phenomenon right there, right? I mean, for a water you have Hydrophobic, hydrophilic. So we coined a new term called lithiophilic and lithiophobic. Now, it's only this paper, come out only for about three years, less than three years. It turned out to be, this has become in lithium battery community, one of the most popular terms right now, called lithiophilic, lithiophobic, so we call this new term. So the reason, well, let me show you the video first convinced you, and then it to tell you the reason. You put graphene oxide through this filtration this layer into the molten lithium. You see a spark coming out? This spark reaction generate this gas, opened up the gap between the graphene oxide to tens to hundreds of nanometers. And then graphene oxide has a lot of polar functional group, and [UNKNOWN] lithium metal. The delta GO reaction gives for energy is negative. Now, you soak it into molten lithium, you see this bright spot. Start to have capillary force, pulling this molten lithium, going between the graphene oxide. Before long the whole thing becomes this golden color, lithium metal embedded between layered graphene oxide. So the reason I mention is graphene oxide surface has this C-O-H bonding. We always metallic lithium, it is a Delta G driving force right if you have a thing. Surface from the metallic lithium, the molten lithium. But the graphene one, no this dangling bond, very inert, so you cannot wet, it's lithium, unless you go to an extremely high temperature. Then things start to work in a different way. So with 8% graphene oxide in there, you can build a structure, right, like this. You embed a molten lithium inside the graphene oxide, imagine, now, you take this structure. You say, I'm going to do lithium stripping during the battery charging. You take out lithium from the side, the top and bottom surface forming the solid electrolyte interface. As long as you don't take 100% lithium out, there's always a little bit of lithium domain inside. You can hold this yhickness the volume right there, then you have a stable structure, you can build interfaces, a solid electrolyte interface to make it more stable. So we confirmed that this is very ductile, it can be processed using the traditional battery processing equipment. And I'm using this column density is 3 million, 1 million per centimeter square, you plate lithium, and then now, you don't see the dangerous formation. So we showed that this becomes a lot more stable, if you plate lithium, strip lithium using this type of hole structure. Then we also asked the question, what's the ideal house, right there? So we have looked into different choices ranging from polymer nano fiber network, we have porous metal form, and we have silicone oxide aluminum fluoride. You over-react, put in more lithium in there, it will generate lithium fluoride, lithium oxide. Now, the metallic lithium domain will embed into this framework of lithium oxide and fluoride, they become much more stable. Not only there is this metallic lithium structure embedded three dimensionally. You can handle much higher column density potentially for fast charging. We are talking about about 10 milliamps to 20 milliamps per centimeter square, now, with this 3D lithium, so it's doing better. So this is the whole structure, there is a war even with house. What does the house really do, your 15 micron plating of lithium, right, for 3 milliamps per centimeter square up and down, you make it three-dimensionally localized. No, sir, dimension change going from 50 micron become maybe one micron or less, we actually. Virtually, we wanna get down to having a stable interface, you don't have localized volume change either. Then you can build stable SCI, we will need to have a very stable interface right there, for lithium. What's the criteria? Lithium is so reactive, so we looked at these in 2014, we say we need an amorphous carbon. It's electronically not so conducting, chemically stable, mechanically strong enough. So we looked at that, we see a great progress by doing a carbon sphere, but that's not good enough. Then we looked at boron nitrite, boron nitrite is completely inert to lithium. But boron nitrite have this graphene type of structure. Even lithium ion cannot go through, then you need one defect, boron nitrite you can have nitrogen vacancy right there, one defect and lithium can go through. And you can add in the electrolyte additive, that will build inorganic coating to help you, that's another way. And together with Steve Chu, we also came up with the idea, what about if we used diamond, nano diamond made by CBD by layer. And it's very strong chemically also stable, we also see the improvement. So this learning just going on and on and on, and I won't go into the detail of that. But let me try to share with you. And so, to go to high energy and lithium matter is important, but sulfur is equally important, right? Sulfur for the long-term did the low-cost potential right there. It's very important, sulfur can enable very high storage capacity. But during this charge and charging, you have this polysulfide phase. That's a solid, that's solid with the electrolyte, and then you lose control, where the acting materials are. So this huge number of problem building up. And my group has been doing encapsulation idea for a number of years, utilize polysulfide and so on. Though it is just continual, going, I know in Carmel right here, this multiple group, you guys are doing great job in working on sulfurs. I won't repeat that, but I really want to come to this part, material design is one thing. The really understanding of the material interface, you need to go hand in hand. During research, we found there is a lot of things we don't understand. We need to come up new technique, so we can understand how things happen. Inside the batteries. Batteries for a long time has been consider as a black box in there. It looks really simple. A positive [UNKNOWN] and a negative [UNKNOWN]. It looks really simple. But it's actually very complicated in there. So first thing I want to highlight with you. This is a recent study. Steve and I have joined a battery subgroup. We meet about monthly, for a few hours. And Steve said I want to look at everything on the optical micro. So I say, Steve I know. You do everything on the optical micro scale. Let's do it. Let's do it, right? I don't know what to expect. So we build this elaborate cell, right, of this lithium metal. This is 50 to 100 nanometer evaporated metal. This electrolyte right here, is containing polysulfide. What we want to do is we want to deposit sulfur and strip it away, right? Kind of this process deposition and dissolve it away, and see how the sulfur looked. At the beginning of the hypothesis is I know the metal will have some catalytic effect, affecting polysulfide reaction. I want to look for that. But turned out to be we discovered something completely unexpected. So I wanna show you this video. This is the pattern of nickel line right there, right? And then, we deposit sulfur in the electro-chemically. And now, as soon as you see this you say what do you think that position? This sulfur forming this job and now you've got this dissolving sulfur away. And then you deposit that again. First of all they look like one shape. It's a spherical shape. You see the sulfur grows, I say what? This seems to indicate sulfur is liquid, right? But we know sulfur's melting point is 115 degrees Celsius. And room temperature, you're so much below room temperature you have sulfur cooling. So this Steve becomes very exciting if you know Steve’s past history. He won a Nobel prize for supercooling of atom. Once the supercool appears and he’s away [UNKNOWN], Steve just get’s so excited, so we need to continue. [LAUGH] So first of all, let’s look at Raman. We look at sulfur powder solid. And then we look at this chocolate doing why am I writing I think signal no more let's look like the same, the sofa a molecule right there. It's not this polysulfide we've seen. First of all we need to make sure the the sulfur is the sulfur 8. Then you say yeah, what's really happening? Is this experimental artifacts right there? And then let's look at more before we're convinced that's a liquid, right? So we look at played in pattern them itl and cobalt sulfide is patterning you all see this physical structure right there. I mean, this is really real. I work on sulfur badly for about that kind that will nail sulfur and room temperature is liquid. It's a super cool like this. And then you say well is this what about carbon right, in the past I look at so many sulfur. That's up where that deposits sulfur. And then I kind of let it dry I go look at it in this yeah pumping of vacuum I mean look at, look like solid I never saw liquid. And obvious cabin right there if glow this or let's look at this, it's more clear, and you see this now sulfur deposition coming out at on this rough carbon surface. You do see these sulfur going out like a solid. So this is telling us, it's not our setups or error or anything. So, that's real. And we also confirm the sulfur droplet they can merge. They are droplet. They are liquid. If they come closer, they merge, become a big one within about a millisecond or so. Just merge so fast, right? So let me also convince you this is a liquid, and also there's something going on. This solid droplet it does not like to wet this nucleation barrier on nickel. They don't really like nickel that much. They actually boil out on a nickel surface. The contact angle is really big right there. But we were able to generate a sulfur right there and let it glow electrochemicaly in there. And then this will grow towards a sulfur droplet and then once you attach that like a golden finger, right, everything becomes solidified. Now this is convinced you now you have a seat then it would start to grow, solid out of it, crystal out of that. So apparently this supercooling is due to very hard to nucleate a solid, a quisling at the first place on these nickel electrode surface. I mean my students are having fun, I need to play this video for you to see. So once this sulfur touching this one is become solid and then this will grow and touch and just keep touching. This remind me, I grew up in China, when I was a little kid in the wintertime, you have this food, some Chinese might know called [FOREIGN], right, having a bowl of fruits, linked together by something, so it just keeps going. So apparently this is the pathway, I think, we proposed. The past understanding has been, you have an electrode, you have polysulfide and then you charge up your battery. This picks up two electrons and becomes S8, directly. Polysulfide becomes S8, it's a solid. Now, right now you pick up these two electrons, you generate sulfur 8. Sulfur 8 has a little bit of solubility, very small, but a little bit. This sulfur 8 molecule going to your electrolyte, and then nucleate and grow into sulfur. But on this nickel surface, electro surface, and the nucleation barrier is so high, this counter angle is really big right there. It's almost a perfect sphere shape. And so they like to grow into the sulfur droplet. And this just keeps going. Then what's the implication of this discovery? We found out with the sulfur state and the liquid state, it's a lot more reversible. If we become solid and then you want to do this charge, it's much harder compared to the liquid. We're trying to design electrical wire now. Let's keep salt in the liquid state during the battery charging discharging and this might be possible. We actually did one experiment and say how super cool you can supercool this sulfur droplet. Let it go down to minus 40 degrees Celsius, it's still liquid. So that's a big surprise we are talking to our condensed matter physicist colleagues, they say what they study the glass state right? This supercooled phenomenon for a long time. The prediction was the maximum supercool you can do is about the temperature delta T, it's about one third of the melting point. We already exist one third of melting point of sulfur. So they're trying to come up with a theory to explain this. Stay tuned on that. So this is one thing where seeing is believing. You need to see what happens. So, for a long time I also wanted to see atomic scale structure on the component inside the batteries. If you do lithium ion batteries you know many of component they are not stable as soon as you focus on it with the beam you destroy them. It's very hard to get atomic scale resolution. So several years ago, we tried to hire faculty at Stanford, right there, I was reading the file, with this faculty joining Stanford later. It was last year. But when I was reading his file, I say well, I didn't know the file year has other one's so much, right? And I said well this is super exciting and I thought this could be a technique, you know, to start it up every problem. And I told my students. Usually when you have a good idea, well risky, you find the best students to work on it. I mean, that's the rule. I had asked these two students, I said well guys, stop what you are doing right now, let's work on the cryo here. Well, he already has a nature energy paper paradise so your PhD defines is all set, you don't have to worry about it. So Let's do this, so then we develop this, I mean, it's not easy. I have to co-app Roger Comber, our colleague and biology. He has acquired EMI there, I said, Roger, can you help me? Send one of your guys to help us to develop this. Roger is very generous and helped us, but we still need to come out how we prepare the sample. So we deposit lithium metal, then join on this TEM grid, and then so put it prong freeze into liquid nitrogen. We don't expose to air at all, liquid nitrogen temperaturee to liquid metal, it just doesn't react with anything there. And the liquid nitrogen temperature transfer this into the TEM and look at this. So you all know this is a Cryo-EM technique in 2017 is a Nobel winning technique in biology, winning the chemistry prize. So we learn a lot from that, so the answers of Cryo-EM is number one is, the device electron detector. So you don't have to use a high dose to get an image, yhat's how you can image your protein molecules. And then, we can see this dendrite y there, and then the first time I look at this, I mean, just looks like the count has to lie. It's really something right there and the right-hand side is image is the one under the standard TEM is one second air exposure, just regular room temperature TEM. They're not stable, they look like black color is already react with air. Forming lithium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, lithium oxide, lithium nitrate and so on. And then when you zoom and you're gonna drill a hole right there. Now, this quiet condition we can look at 10 minutes, they're still stable, they are counting on those. And this electronic those were 50 electron potential square per second. If you look at biology typically, you are talking about, you need to get an image under 10 electron. Per inch square in total, so actually, lithium metal is a lot more robust. We also look at the eels in the conforming is metallic lithium is not ionic lithium state and getting the atomic scale solution of lithium metal. But he actually took a long time to convince the community. I mean, the people reveal took nine months to do and you can really see lithium. Lithium is consider not stable and we have to explain that eventually, people are convinced and in the battlefield is a really exciting, component called SEI. We want to know atomic scale solution of that, but it wasn't possible right, I mean, it's just so fragile. In the battery field, there are two models called mosaic or layer model. One proposed by Palade, the other by Donald uerbach. Palade said, this is having the nanoglyn patched together forming this mosaic SEI. SEI's important control lithium coming in and out, you want to block electron, but not lithium, but you need to know its structure. And don't say it's multi-layer within inorganic layer and then the top is a lot of organics right there. So with the Cryo-EM, we could resolve for the first time, this is metallic lithium right there. This is interfacial layer, this is SCI, if you go in like this it's more clear. You can identify each grain of lithium oxide, lithium carbonate right here. This is under the carbonate electrolyte seems to confirm the mosaic model of domains of these materials patched together. But it's slightly different from what Palade propose, this is more like matrix type of thing. And then as soon as the electrolyte and its ECDs you added 10% of FEC, you see this SES structure change completely. All right, you see this SE amorphous layer right here, this is metallic lithium dendrite going this way on the top. You see a really nice in organic coating layer. This is multi-layer model, by this slightly different from what all on proposed on proposed is. Inorganic should be on the bottom, but actually we see the inorganic on the top. So which is understanding and this becomes more and more exciting, how can you correlate this SEI with the battery performance? So during the process of these acquiring and development, certainly, I started to see wow, this is exciting work going on right here. Lana is doing that and this nation paper coming out very nice, and uses, he also surely among is seeing something right here. This turned out to be, I think a very exciting time in the next number of years of having Cryo-EM to look at materials. This opens a huge opportunity you can think about. So with one last minute, I'm just telling you related. Now, we say what is this SEI, who cares? It's a different structure, right? Let's look at this, this ECD, so you have this mosaic matrix model, if you place lithium, they look like this. And if you add FEC actually, it's multi-layer SEI, you clearly, they more or less look the same. But once you strip it half way, they look very different. And the mosaic one, you kind of like long lithium dendrite, now, cut into half. And these multi-layer one will just be long dendrite uniformly, diameter gets thinner. Well, that's very different, and then electrochemistry-wise, we notice there's a huge difference in its performance. With the ECDs, you only have 80% coulombic efficiency. You charge a hundred electrons, you only get 80 out, right? And then once we look at this we do lithium stripping halfway. Now, we see this notch formation, and we zoom in the notch, you find out is inorganic particle concentrations very high. Apparently, having these high concentration inorganic particle right here, lithium ion conductivity is much higher when you do stripping. This is the place stripped that really fast, and then this cost the pinch off. If you pinch off, the bottom gets stripped away, and the top will be disconnect from the common collector you have lithium information. That's why you lose so much lithium, right? And therefore, the uniform one, these are your layer SCI, you see uniform stripping becomes thinner. So clumping efficiency's 95%, you only lose 5% of that. That 5% due to you need to form SEI, you lose 5%, so this is really good. Now, Cryo-EM is teaching us that this can make a huge difference. Unfortunately, for both either of cases, the second time they deposited lithium. This lithium metal does not like to go into this initial empty shell. It will push out this empty shell and deposit underneath. So that's why lithium metal clumping efficient for cycle, cycle, cycle now we get to 99% and above very very hard to get to 99%, you just keep every cycle lithium reform the SCI consume too much lithium. [UNKNOWN] lithium has very expensive kids. Every home, every time, every night, lithium comes home and tell daddy and mommy, I want a different house to stay in. That's what lithium is doing, so every time lithium is asking for that.  [LAUGH]  I think I need to wrap up, so the time is running out even though it, I believe, is interesting, but-  [LAUGH]  Sorry, guys, you have to remind me back again.  [LAUGH]  So, well, let me come to the last slide is, this is real exciting, we know I mean, battery field industry's growing, roughly doubled how the industry every two to three years, I mean, this is exciting time. Electro car is driving this whole thing. And also [INAUDIBLE] gas storage is coming up, and as graduate students, post docs, and young faculties, looking at electrochemistry, which is wonderful. [LAUGH] And this is a lot of fundamental questions you need to answer in order to enable a road map like this. Let me end my talk by thanking the whole research group and DOE for the funding support. Thank you very much for attention.  [APPLAUSE] 