 Hello! Guys. Welcome to my channel “Practical Veirdo." Here, we will have an engaging session on the trending topics and will try to work for their practical solutions and their outcomes, if any. Therefore, without any delay, we will start with today’s topic, i.e. Solar Panel and Silicon. I will kick-start the video with some basic questions. What is a Solar Panel? What does Solar Energy actually mean and why is it so important? First thing first, what is the hype with Solar Energy? And why it is so important? Solar Energy is green energy, which is known as pollution-free and an economical source of energy. So, let us contemplate the reasons that impedes the growth of Solar in India, even after being backed by so many government policies. Not to worry guys. We will figure it out by the end of the video. Ok, so what is this Solar Energy? Let us dive in. As the name suggests, here Sun is the source and Solar panels are the devices that help in harnessing Solar Energy. Are you wondering how can Solar Panels be affordable? The one thing that sets out Solar Energy apart from other energy sources is it’s cost-effectiveness, i.e. once installed, you will end up having a free source of energy for the next 20-30 years. Isn’t it amazing? But as the adage goes, tint comes with a hue. There are a few limitations which we need to work on. One of the major problems, we need to deal with Solar Energy, is its temperature-dependency Nevertheless, India’s topography won’t let it impact much as India gets adequate Sunlight for almost 300 days from 365 days per year. That’s why Solar has such a wide scope in India and we will definitely try to improve more in this sector. Second major challenge, which we came across, is efficiency. Though Solar panels are theoretically proved to be efficient as 46 %, practically they are limited to 30-40% only. Third and the most critical limitation of Solar Energy is the availability of Silicon in India. Today, we will try to devise a few smart steps to tackle the scarcity of Silicon in India with a viable and provident approach. Let’s start with the expensive parts present in a Solar Panel. It includes Frame, Glass, EVA, Solar Cell, followed by EVA Sheets, and the Junction Box. We'll try to focus on Solar cells. Even being densely populated, We are far behind in the manufacturing of Solar cells and Solar panels Germany occupies the top rank, followed by China, Japan, Italy, and the USA. Yes Friends, It is China on the 2nd position. Thus, there is a lot of scope to improve. Coming back to Solar cells, which largely consist of Silica. Actually, the main key is Silica and it's extraction. With its adequate accessibility, we can even facilitate the manufacturing process of other Electronics as Smartphones, chips, semiconductors, laptops and many more. So, solution is we have to make Silicon completely in India. Factually, India has sufficient resources of Silica. So many States of India has sufficient amount of Silica Many parts of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan,Tamil Nadu and the most important Allahabad, has its abundant supply in India. So availability is not the issue. What's the major concern then? Actual cause is the lack of technological advancement in the Solar sector, and our restrained innovative skills. Somehow, we fall behind in the intuitive skills to cope with the extraction of Silica. We will discuss a few of the practical and smart solutions quickly. But before this, let's go through some of the govt policies which makes Solar energy more accessible. First is JawaharLal Nehru Solar Mission, aimed to set-up a huge grid of 1 Lakh MW by 2022, and thus creating a gigantic Solar network across India. Second is the Solar Energy Subsidy Scheme It planned to provide a subsidy amount if we contributed to aid the Solar network in India. Third is Deployment of Solar Park. Bhadla Solar Park, Jaisalmer in Rajasthan is the biggest such park with harnessing power of 2250 MW. Last, but not least, is the International Solar Alliance is the combined initiative by India and France which was initiated in 2015. It aimed to provide helping hands to the to those countries which is located in the region with maximum availability of Solar energy. It aimed to provide helping hands to the 121 different countries initially to grow globally in the Solar sector. It's headquarter lies in Gurugram, India. Now, let focus on the feasible options to tackle Silicon availability. After going through a number of articles, papers and surfing the web, I came to know a surprising fact. We can find its solution very easily in our own country. The key to extract Silicon is agricultural waste. Yes, it's the agricultural waste. Since we have high agricultural-dependency in India, It will definitely be a boon for farmers and all of us. Rice husk, grain, corn and Bagasse (sugarcane waste) are the resourceful elements for the extraction process of Silicon. Second resource is the Earth's crust. Almost 90% of the Earth's crust is made up of Silicate materials. It means Silicon's shortage is definitely not an issue. Drawback is the lack of technology, which can be used to extract the material economically and pollution-free. Third resource is intriguing. Yes, it's the unrefined grain, cereal products and the most interesting is root vegetables like carrots, potatoes, onions, garlic, ginger etc. These all have sufficient silicon content. Thus, the only solution is by promoting the agricultural products, we can move forward with technology for the extraction of Silicon, i.e Solar and Agriculture will go hand in hand. Many-a-times, we lag behind as the contribution of agriculture to the overall GDP is limited to only 15.4%. we must strive for the improvement in this sector in order to tackle many undesired factors, including unemployment. So we have to promote agriculture as a business in a positive way. China holds the first position in the agricultural producing countries, followed by the USA, Brazil, India and Russia. I have a strong faith that India can be at the top of this list, and it can be only possible by the combined efforts of all the citizens. I will be back with similar engaging topics to brainstorm ideas. I hope you find this discussion fascinating enough, that you will have a healthy discussion to improvise and promote Solar energy. Please like, share, subscribe, and hit the Bell icon of my channel, and drop your views onto the comment box and help me connect with you. Tip of the day: Though it's Corona season, don't forget about Rainy season and other diseases. Get rid of excess and stagnant water as these are the breeding ground for mosquitoes. So, keep your surroundings clean and be safe. Thank you, see you next time. Jai Hind. 