 Let’s take our present knowledge of a P-N junction one step further and see what happens when we apply a voltage to the junction. This is a schematic picture of a P-N junction with electrodes attached to it. With the attachment of electrodes the P-N junction has become an operational device that we call a P-N junction diode. Capital A represents the anode and capital C represents the cathode. The definition says that a cathode is the electrode from which the current leaves an electrical device. The circuit symbol of a P-N junction diode has the triangle pointing from the p-type semiconductor to the n-type semiconductor, and I_d represents the diode current. Now you see a P-N junction diode is connected to an external voltage source. In this particular case we are applying a positive voltage to the anode, and thus p-type region, with respect to the cathode and n-type region. This is called Forward Biasing of the P-N junction. The objective of this video is to explain what happens to a P-N junction under forward bias. Let’s start by looking at the bonding diagram of a P-N junction diode at thermal equilibrium. Here we see a picture of a P-N junction using the bonding model as in previous videos. Since the external bias voltage is 0 volts we have the same situation as when P-N junction is at thermal equilibrium. We have our depletion region at the interface between the p and n-type semiconductors that is responsible for balancing the diffusion and drift currents of electrons and holes resulting in zero net current through the diode. Let’s start ramping up the applied voltage, ‘V_a’ and see what happens. When we assume that the quasi-neutral regions are conductive then the voltage applied to the diode will be distributed over the non-conductive part of the diode which is the depletion region. You should remember that at thermal equilibrium there is a potential difference between the edges of the depletion region, so called built-in voltage. At thermal equilibrium the potential at the edge of the depletion region in the n-type semiconductor is positive with respect to the edge of the depletion region in the p-type semiconductor. When we apply a positive voltage on the anode with respect to the cathode this voltage will be combined with the built-in voltage across the depletion region. The result of the superposition of these two voltages is that the built-in voltage will be decreased by the size of the applied voltage and the potential drop across the depletion will be lowered. This means that the the internal electric field in the depletion region is weaker and the drift currents of electrons and holes facilitated by the electric field cannot balance the diffusion currents anymore. When this happens, there will be a much larger concentration of minority carriers at the edges of the depletion region, it means electrons at the edge of the depletion region in the p-type region and holes at the edge of the depletion region in the n-type region, than at thermal equilibrium conditions. These extra minority carriers will diffuse deeper into the quasi-neutral regions. This is, of course, not a stable situation for the minority carriers that find themselves in the see of majority carriers. The minority carriers will sooner or later recombine with the majority carriers in the quasi-neutral regions. Since a significant concentration of majority carriers in the quasi-neutral regions will recombine this will lead to a new state in the quasi-neutral regions that is different from thermal equilibrium. This new situation is visualized and exaggerated using the bonding model. The concentration of majority carriers in quasi-neutral regions is smaller than the concentration of ionized dopants. Our diode naturally tends to return to an original state, in which the concentration of majority carriers in the quasi-neutral regions is equal to the concentration of ionized dopants. The battery is a source of electrons that can replenish the carriers lost in the P-N junction diode in the recombination process. Electrons flow from the electricity source into the cathode and from the anode into the battery. This process can be visualized by a flow of holes from the battery into the anode. Injection of the carriers into the diode means that the recombination of minority carriers in the quasi-neutral regions is maintained and we describe this situation as steady state. This steady state is characterized by a current flowing from the battery through the external circuit into the diode. This current is based on the diffusion current of minority carriers over the depletion region that is not compensated by the opposing drift current and the recombination current caused by the recombination of minority carriers in the quasi-neutral regions. The recombination current is maintained by injection of the carriers from the battery. The flow of carriers from the battery is a current measurable in the external circuit. A larger external bias voltage will cause a smaller depletion region and a smaller electric field in the P-N junction leading to an exponential increase in the net current flowing through the diode and external circuit. In our next video we will calculate the current-voltage characteristic for the P-N junction. But before we get there, let’s also take a look how the the band diagram of the P-N junction diode is effected when a forward bias voltage is applied. We carried out simulations of a P-N junction diode under different forward-biased conditions in order to accurately visualize the changes in the band diagram. In this simulation a p-type crystalline silicon layer of 1 micrometer with an acceptor concentration, N_A, of 10 to the 16 per cubic centimeter was used. A 1 micrometer thick n-type layer of crystalline silicon with a donor concentration, N_D of 10 to the 18 per cubic centimeter was used to form a P-N junction. With these numbers we can produce a band diagram for a P-N junction and see how those bands change when we apply a forward bias. Before we see the band diagram of a P-N junction in forward-biased condition, let’s first review the band diagram of a P-N junction at thermal equilibrium. When we look at the band diagram on the left, the vertical axis is the energy in electron volts. The position of the Fermi level is set at 0 eV. The horizontal axis is the position in a P-N junction. From 0 to 1 is the 1 micrometer thick p-type layer (short pause) and from 1 to 2 is the 1 micrometer thick n-type layer. (short pause) We see that there is a slope in the conduction and valence band edges across the depletion region, indicating the existence of an electrostatic potential difference between the p- and n-type regions. So, at thermal equilibrium, we have an internal electric field in the depletion region that causes a built-in voltage across the depletion region. The built-in voltage in this particular case is 0.9 V. The electric field acts as a potential barrier that prevents the mobile electrons in the n-type region from flowing into the p-type region. Similarly, this electric field prevents holes in the p-type region from diffusing into the n-type region. Please remember that at thermal equilibrium there is only one Fermi level and it is at the same energy position across the P-N junction. This tells us that the total electrochemical energy of electrons is the same all over the P-N junction. Since the Fermi level is at the same energy level across the whole P-N junction, or as we see horizontal, it indicates that there is is no net current flowing through the P-N junction diode. Of course there are diffusion and drift currents of electrons and holes across the depletion region but they compensate each other so that the net current is zero. On the right side of the slide, we show the graph of the electrostatic potential in a P-N junction. You see that at the n-type region of the P-N junction the potential is positive with respect to the p-type region. You have seen this before, but now let’s apply a forward bias to the P-N junction. This is the band diagram when a forward bias of 0.1V is applied to a P-N junction diode. When applying voltage to a P-N junction diode, the P-N junction is no longer at thermal equilibrium. Now we see the Fermi level splits into two quasi-fermi levels. E_FN is the quasi-fermi level for electrons and E_FP is the quasi-fermi level for holes. The quasi-fermi level of holes in the p-type region is set to 0 eV at the electrode. (short pause) We have applied a bias of 0.1 volts and you can see that quasi-fermi level of holes is pushed up by 0.1 electron volts at the electrode attached to the n-type region. You may be able to notice that the difference between the conduction band edge at the p and n-type quasi-neutral region has reduced and that means that the potential difference across the depletion region is also reduced. This is confirmed when we look at the potential profile in the P-N junction diode shown in the plot on the right. The solid line is the potential difference at thermal equilibrium and the dashed line is the potential difference at a forward bias of 0.1 volts. Since we keep the reference level of the potential 0 at the electrode attached to the p-type layer you can see that potential drops by 0.1 volts at the n-type side with respect to the potential level at thermal equilibrium. Let’s also quickly look back at the quasi-fermi levels. The bend in the quasi-fermi levels indicates that the net current is flowing through the diode. Current flow is proportional to the gradient of the quasi-Fermi level of electrons, E_FN. So let’s gradually start increasing the forward bias voltage and see the effects on the band diagram. As we increase the bias voltage to 0.2 volts we can see a further increase in the split between the quasi-Fermi levels and a shrinking of the potential difference between the conduction bands in the p- and n-type regions. Let’s keep going gradually. Now we have reached 0.7 V applied forward bias. You can see that the band edges are almost flat. This means that the potential difference between the two sides of the P-N junction depletion region is small. There is a significant current flowing through the diode. Let’s recap what we discussed in this video. Our goal was to understand what happens to a P-N junction when we move from thermal equilibrium to a forward bias. We saw that as we apply a forward bias the depletion region starts to decrease which leads to a smaller internal electric field in the depletion region. A net current will flow through the P-N junction diode that is a result of recombination current caused by the recombination of an increased number of minority carriers with majority carriers in the quasi-neutral regions. The increased concentration of minority carriers is a consequence of the diffusion current through the depletion region that is not anymore compensated by the drift current. Further, we saw how the band diagram of a P-N junction is changed when the external forward bias voltage is applied. At thermal equilibrium there is a large potential difference between the position of the conduction band edge of the n-type material and the p-type material. As we apply a forward bias voltage, the difference between the band edges flattens out and the potential difference across the depletion region lowers allowing current to flow through the P-N Junction. Important is to note that the concentration of mobile carriers is described by two quasi-fermi levels, one for electrons and the other for holes. Slope in the profile of the quasi-fermi levels indicates that a current flows through a P-N junction diode. Now that we have understood what happens when we apply a positive bias to a P-N junction, the next obvious question is what happens when we apply a reverse bias. This will be the topic of the next video, see you there! 