 Will NIO be able to surprise and show a battery on NIO Day that is able to compete with Tesla's structural batteries? Well, NIO day is like Tesla battery Day, Cybertruck unveil and Shareholder Day, all compressed together in a single event, filling a stadium. And on NIO day, last year, 2019, NIO has revealed the 100 kilowatt hour battery. And on November this year, the battery was finally launched, giving the users to chance to upgrade flexible to a battery that can have more than 600 of kilometers of range. And to be honest, NIO cars are not the most efficient ones out there. Tesla is still the champ here, but in contrast to other EV makers with the Battery as a Service (BaaS) and battery swapping at the core, NIO has separated the battery from the the vehicle technically, financially and practically. So this gives the use of freedom to upgrade and change whenever they like. And therefore also consume the latest technology. So NIO day, January 9th, we'll most likely see that NIO will be introducing at a rumored 150 kilowatt hour battery with a range of more than 900 kilometers. So that is further than most EVs can go these days on a single charge - and users will be able to well just simply upgrade by subscribing to a new battery plan and swapping it. And so in this video, I'm going deeper on this rumor and what it means for NIO and the industry. And this video is part of a series of videos that I'm going to do. I'm going into NIO day on January 9th. And if you don't want to miss out, please make sure to subscribe to the channel and also give this video a quick thumbs up. So this goes a long way. So here's an interesting article. It's only in Chinese, which talks about how NIO might be able to achieve this rumored at 150 kilowatt hours battery, which would become an industry benchmark. And first we need to take a look at what it actually took to make the a 100 kilowatt hour battery a reality this year: So basically NIO switched to a new design called cell to pack technology. NIO claims that they have over 300 patents filed and gained for this battery. And a 100 kilowatt hour battery features this so-called cell to pack technology. And this performance is underpinned by four technology improvements: better thermal runway management, thanks to the thermal propagation prevention design, the highly integrated design that streamlines to manufacturing by 40% and improves to space utilization by almost 20% and to all-climate thermal management that improves the performance and extends the lifetime after battery and to end cloud bi-directional communication battery management system that supports smart parameter adjustments. So you need to remember that whenever NIO makes a new battery, then they need to stick to this original design so that they can fit into the existing fleet that is able to swap the batteries. So they really need to think hard about those efficiency gains. And it's quite a big of an engineering challenge here in order to come up with a 150 kilowatt hour battery that fits into the original dimensions of those previous batteries. Well, and according to this Weibo article, there might be 3 ways to actually achieving this sort of first one is that with the latest battery release that I just talked about when they went from 32 modules, so a single pack module was 2.6 kilowatt hours for the 84 kilowatt hours battery to 12 modules, a single module was 8.3 kilowatt hours. So there might be a way to stick with this 590 cell to pack setup. And it's based on this NCM811 battery technology with which basically means what kind of cell chemistry is in use. And this article talks about that. In addition to that, they will have a Silicon carbon anodes and certain lithium supplements that can be used to in order to increase the energy density of this 590 cell pack. So I'm personally not an engineer. I'm not a deep expert on batteries either. So I can only try and read and make up my own mind. And as I can not give you an idea of whether or not this is really feasible or not, but what really caught my attention here on top of this possibility here is the second and the third way of improving the battery capacity: So the article talks about the company SVolt and Chinese its Fengchao Nengyuan or translating into a "Honeycomb", and they had a battery day in which supposedly some NIO officials took part. And on that day they unveiled a so-called L6 battery cell, and which by the dimensions is a longer sell instead of the 590 cells that NIO has been using previously. And which is a bit like using a soft pack 590 a cell to package several batteries together. So this is the way how it kind of works or how you can think about it. And I did some digging and interestingly, the battery specs are for 850 to 880 kilometers, and they are supposedly going to be released in the second half of 2021. So this fits quite well with the speculations around the NIO 150 kilowatts hour battery, and a third option. The article talks about here is basically a similar approach, but this time by LG Chem and SK which are other battery providers and they are going the same way using such longer cells that ultimately enabled this new pack design by basically only having this two major sales components, thereby a better battery usage of the space. So which one of those three options is the most likely for NIO and this new battery? Well, in my point of view I hope that they're actually going to show this new design with those longer cells and possibly not coming from any of those providers mentioned, but rather from CATL, which is to joint venture partner in the NIO battery asset management company. And CATL should have to speak interest in providing the cells if they can provide such a design and a really interesting fact in the news around this longer cells of the usage of that new design would be in my view is that this is kind of similar to what Tesla calls those "structural batteries". Remember Tesla battery day Tesla has shown how they are about to bring down cost of the battery significantly. And one aspect was that their batteries will be in a form that skips modules and where the cells provide the actual structure. So Elon Musk tweeted that the battery pack will be a bonded structure with cells providing shear transfer between steel, upper and lower face sheets eliminating most of the center body parts with lots of benefits for Tesla here and what he is even calling a breakthrough. So now this technology shown here in this article, in this rumor about the NIO battery. It's actually quite close to that with the difference that in the case of Tesla, the battery actually becomes part of the vehicle structure, thereby allowing even more efficiency gains, but in NIO's case, and this is interesting here, the battery pack will be swappable and it might be just at those longer L6 cells will provide all the pack structure and thereby having more efficient battery packs ultimately enabling the 150 kilowatt hour battery. And to sum this up right now, it is only a rumor. We need to see what NIO is really going to unveil. However, it's going to be clear that if this is something that they are going to release, and this will have huge implications on NIO users, because they can upgrade to this new technology, which will be way more efficient. And thereby also that the entire fleet basically has to spend a fit of using this new battery if they want to. On an industry level that would mean that NIO can kind of close the gap a little bit regarding the efficiencies when it comes to what are Tesla's plan based on battery day. Still, Tesla will be the leading part here, but as outlined in my video also after the battery day I think could surprise on the timing both when it comes to the battery cost and in case about those new battery technology that I've just talked about here maybe even on the part of bringing such efficiencies to the existing fleet quite sooner than most people have actually anticipated. So let's see what's going to happen. I'm quite excited about this. Just read this article this morning thought that I'm going to share it with you guys. Let me know what you think about it. Maybe you have better insight on the technical parts of this. I'm looking forward to get your feedback down into the comments. And once again, please smash the like button and see you in the next video about NIO Day, but also on other topics such as Chinese stocks and investments in the China opportunity. So thank you guys for watching. The next one. 