 Batteries are a technology we rely on every day. From cars, to phones, to even medical devices, they've been a part of our daily life for decades. But they're not always the most reliable. The truth is standard lithium-ion batteries have not evolved at the same pace as that of the devices they power. Today's technology is simply not safe enough to keep up. A team at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics lab decided to do something about it. Introducing the flexible polymer lithium-ion. The unbreakable battery. The flexible lithium ion battery operates under extreme conditions, including cutting, submersion, and ballistic impact. And it still works! Now it's taking on lithium ion batteries biggest safety hazard: combustion. In short, it won't. "Today's lithium-ion batteries come with safety concerns primarily because of the organic liquid electrolyte. This electrolyte enables high energy density, meaning long battery life, but it is very flammable. Any adverse operating conditions can result in catastrophic failure. Our team has taken a two-pronged approach to solve this problem. First, we are replacing the liquid with a polymer electrolyte, and second we're replacing the hazardous organic solvents with non flammable equivalents." APL's lithium-ion battery is made of a single material, as thin and flexible as a contact lens, with its own built-in fire extinguisher. All without compromising the performance of the battery compared to equivalent liquid electrolyte devices. "Our latest work shows that we can make water-based polymer lithium ion batteries that are not only safe and practical, but also damage tolerant. And in addition to the safety aspects, our polymer also has increased voltage stability, meaning that we can now pair it with electrodes that are used in commercial batteries." The flexible lithium-ion battery shows unprecedented safety and operational features, and the team feels they have just scratched the surface. "We've already achieved further discoveries building on this work, and we hope to transition this new research to advanced prototyping within the year." It is the next generation of energy storage. Stronger, more resilient, and safer batteries. 