 Welcome back everyone! I’m Jordan Giesige and this is The Limiting Factor. Samsung recently published a research paper detailing what they referred to as a breakthrough in solid state batteries. They claim this battery has high a cycle life of 1000 cycles and high energy density at greater than 900 watt hours per liter. In today’s video I’ll explain what the researchers have claimed, walk you through the design of the battery cell, and give my take on the battery. Let’s get right into it. The title of the research paper was High-energy long-cycling all-solid-state lithium metal batteries enabled by silver-carbon composite anodes. There was a large team working on the research project, but Samsung called out three of the key researchers in their press release. Yuichi Aihara, Dongmin Im, and Yong-Gun Lee. I’ll paraphrase the abstract into plain English, but first, you’ll need an understanding of some of the words and concepts they’ve used in the abstract. An all-solid-state-battery is a battery that contains all solid materials and no liquid. Typical lithium ion batteries use a liquid electrolyte and solid state batteries replace that liquid with a solid electrolyte. This is desirable because liquid electrolytes are typically flammable. As soon as flammable electrolytes are removed from batteries, we’ll see far fewer battery explosions and fires. The electrolytes in a solid state battery also have another advantage, which’ll be covered shortly. The anode in a typical lithium ion battery is made of graphite. Graphite anodes store lithium ions between their layers at an atomic level in a process called intercalation. The layered graphite intercalation structure is bulky in comparison to the lithium ions it stores, which means extra weight and lower energy density. An anode-less battery cell is a type of battery where the typical graphite anode material has been removed and the lithium ions bond directly to the current collector. This means the bulky intercalation structure is eliminated. We’ll refer to the process of the lithium ions bonding with the current collector and then layering on top of each other as plating. In some cases, researchers pre-plate the anode with a small amount of lithium to help improve the battery performance. The reason why an anode-less structure isn’t used in batteries, despite its advantages, is that when the lithium ions arrive at the anode side and begin to plate, they don’t form a perfectly smooth layer. They form dendrites. Dendrites are structures that grow on the surface of the lithium that look like fingers, needles, and trees that can grow tall enough to touch the cathode and short out the battery, causing an explosion. Coulombic efficiency is how efficient a battery is at giving you the energy back that you put into it. If this efficiency is low, it means that some of the energy is being used for unwanted reactions which shorten battery life. If you’d like to know more about this, check out my video on Jeff Dahn. Those are the key concepts, and now I’ll paraphrase the abstract: All-solid-state batteries with lithium plated anodes are a great option to replace the typical lithium ion batteries on the market today. However, they have low cycle lives due to low coulombic efficiency and experience dendrite growth. In this research paper, we’ve created a solid state battery with a lithium plated anode that has a long cycle life and is safe. The anode isn’t pre-plated with pure lithium metal to help the performance. Instead of the pure lithium metal, we use a layer of silver and carbon. As the battery charges and discharges, the silver-carbon layer regulates the lithium ions and helps them form a perfectly smooth layer on the current collector of the anode. For the cathode, we used a standard Nickel Manganese Cobalt or NMC material and for the solid electrolyte we used a high sulphur material. Throughout testing, the cell was compressed and warmed to improve the contact between the layers. The end result was a battery cell that had greater than 900 watt hours per liter of energy density, had a coulombic efficiency of 99.8%, and had useful cycle life of 1000 cycles. This is a diagram of the battery cell layers provided in the research paper. Let’s take a look at what’s similar and different about these layers from a typical lithium ion battery cell. The Samsung battery uses an Aluminum current collector and an NMC cathode material, both of which are common to typical lithium ion batteries. The NMC is shown as the large black spheres that make up the central part of the diagram on the right. NMC is a common high energy cathode material that’s well-researched, and for that reason, it provides an excellent benchmark material for testing high energy battery cells. For the rest of the video I’ll refer to the NMC cathode material as just cathode material. Aluminum is shown as the metallic coloured strip that forms the top layer on the diagram. Aluminum is used as the current collector because it’s electrochemically stable at the voltage ranges that lithium based batteries operate at. This is where the similarities end between a typical cell and Samsung’s cell. Instead of a liquid electrolyte, the Samsung cell uses a solid electrolyte, which is shown by white spheres that vary in size between small and medium. Some solid state electrolytes, such as the one chosen for this research, also help prevent dendrite growth. This is because the solid electrolyte conducts lithium ions in a way that distributes them evenly during lithium plating. The solid electrolyte the researchers chose is a chemical compound high in sulphur, so it’s classed as a Sulfide Solid State Electrolyte. Sulfide Solid Electrolytes have high lithium ion conductivity at room temperature, which is helpful if you want your battery to work at that temperature. More specifically, they picked a crystal structure called Argyrodite that has slower reaction speeds than most Sulfide-based solid electrolytes. This is a drawback because it means slower charge and discharge rates. However, because it’s less reactive, it’s much more stable when it touches lithium metal. This makes it a great candidate for a lithium metal battery. And even though an Argyrodite crystal structure has a slow reaction speed relative to other sulfides, it’s still a fast enough to create a useful battery chemistry. For the rest of this video we’ll refer to the Sulfide Solid Electrolyte with an Argyrodite crystal structure as simply the electrolyte. If you look closely at the diagram of layers, you’ll notice that the electrolyte is actually hanging out in two places. 1) There are small white electrolyte spheres mixed in with the large black NMC cathode material spheres. The research paper didn’t elaborate on this, but I have an insight as to why they’ve done this. In a non-solid state battery cell, the entire battery cell is saturated with liquid electrolyte. This allows the ions to travel directly from the surface of the cathode materials into the electrolyte solution. From there, they can travel on to their destination at the anode, and vice versa. In solid state batteries, there is no soaking mechanism, so the solid electrolyte is often manually mixed with cathode materials. Mixing the solid electrolyte with the cathode material provides the lithium ions with 3 dimensional access to and from the cathode materials, just as they would have with a liquid electrolyte. Without this access, the cathode materials buried deep in the cathode wouldn’t be able to unbury themselves to take part in the charging and discharging of the battery. 2) There’s also a layer of pure electrolyte that’s illustrated with slightly larger white spheres. This is similar to the liquid electrolyte layer in a typical battery cell. It allows the lithium ions to ferry back and forth, to and from the electrodes. Before we move on to the next layer, there’s a layer mentioned in the research paper that wasn’t shown in this diagram. The researchers applied a 5 micron layer of LZO to the cathode material. LZO is a combination of Lithium and Zirconium Oxides. The purpose of the LZO layer was to protect the cathode material from unwanted side reactions that occur when voltages in the battery go above 4 volts. The LZO layer was necessary because the battery was cycled as high as 4.25 volts. The next layer is a Silver-Carbon Composite layer. The tiny black spheres are carbon and the blue spheres are silver. This is the layer that the researchers claim regulates the lithium ions and helps them form a smooth layer on the current collector of the anode side. In this battery the current collector on the anode side is made of stainless steel. Typically, current collectors on the anode side are made of copper. Stainless steel is lighter and cheaper than copper but it’s much less conductive. Both are good anode materials. The reason for selecting one over the other really depends on your use case. Samsung didn’t explain why they chose stainless steel. My immediate thought was corrosion resistance, but pure Nickel is actually more corrosion resistant in a battery anode than stainless steel. So that mystery will remain unsolved for now. Now that we’ve gone through the design, I’ll explain how the battery works. When the battery is charged, the lithium ions leave the cathode material and travel through the solid electrolyte. This is a mind bender, because an ion moving through a solid electrolyte is essentially a solid moving through a solid. The ion tunnels its way through, which is another reason why solid state batteries are such a difficult technology to master - not many materials have this talent. When the lithium ions arrive at the silver-carbon composite, they pass through the silver-carbon composite and then form a smooth dendrite free layer on the stainless steel current collector. Samsung’s researchers didn’t know what was going on here, but offered an educated guess on why dendrites were suppressed. When the lithium ions pass through the Silver-Carbon layer, some of them bump into the silver and bond with it. The Lithium-Silver alloy and lithium ions then plate to the stainless steel current collector. Then, the magic happens. The researchers speculate that silver lowers the nucleation energy and improves the conductivity of the lithium, allowing it to form a pristine lithium plated layer. Nucleation energy is the amount of energy it takes for a group of atoms to change its structure. The best analogy I could come up with for this is making pancakes. If you add more water to the pancake batter, you’ll get a flatter pancake because the batter spreads more easily across the pan. If you don’t add enough water to your pancake batter, you’ll get lumpy pancakes. That’s what silver is doing for the lithium, it’s like water in pancake batter. It allows the lithium to plate flatter on the stainless steel current collector, rather than to plate with lumpy dendrites. The extra conductivity comes into play the same way gravity would on your wet pancake batter. Gravity pulls the pancake batter flat in the pan. If you made a pancake on a planet with more gravity, the batter would get flatter and flatten more quickly. When the battery is discharged, the reverse happens. The lithium ions leave the silver behind after their tryst. Over time, this does cause a change the structure of the Silver-Carbon layer. The silver particles shift towards the current collector and this appears to further help with the lithium plating. The researchers aren’t certain if the carbon layer is serving any function here, but they speculate that the carbon helps conduct lithium ions and provides mechanical support as the materials shuffle around during charge and discharge. That covers the basic structure of Samsung’s battery and how it operates. The researchers then took the structure one step further. They used this structure to build a bi-cell structure, shown here in figures a through c. This bi-cell contained 1 aluminum current collector and 2 of everything else. The purpose of this was to increase energy density by sharing the aluminum current collector between what is basically two batteries fused into one battery cell. Throughout the entire testing process the researchers used warm plates to compress the battery. This compression and warmth increased the conductivity between the layers to improve their results. This kind of seems like cheating, but it’s often done in testing with solid state batteries. I would assume if a battery like this ever made it to market one of two things would need to occur. Researchers would need to solve the conductivity problem in the solid state chemistry, or, solve the problem through physical engineering. For example: Compressing the battery cell into the battery pack. As we’ve already discussed in the introduction, this bi-cell battery compressed between warm plates achieved an energy density of greater than 900 watt hours per liter and lasted 1000 cycles. Time for my review and thoughts. First, the positives. My first impression of the research paper was that it had some of the best visuals I’ve seen in a research paper. Besides my first impression of the paper, it was a clever solution to some of the problems plaguing solid state batteries. The interaction between the silver and lithium to form a smooth layer of lithium was an effective strategy. This will probably spawn more research to confirm how the two are interacting to form a perfect layer of lithium. If the basic mechanism here can be better understood, the silver could be swapped out for something cheaper and lighter. Now on to my thoughts for the actual usefulness of this battery and how it compares to typical lithium ion batteries. Graphite and nickel materials make up the bulk of typical lithium ion batteries and are $10-13 a kilogram. The Silver and Zirconium used in this battery are $558 and $150 per kilogram respectively. Even though these materials were used in small amounts, that’s 12-55 times more expensive. In real world terms, this battery would likely cost as much as an entire Model 3. What would we get for that price tag? 900wh per Liter is a good number, but not fantastically high. For comparison, Tesla’s 2170 cells in the Model 3 were probably at around 680 watt hours per liter in 2017. I’m basing this off a similar chemistry that has a comparable specific energy density, seen here. That’s roughly 30-40% less than Samsung’s solid state. However, at the 2018 annual shareholder meeting Elon suggested Tesla could have a battery cell with 30-40% greater energy density in production by 2020. If that turns out to be true, Samsung’s self-titled breakthrough battery of the future is Tesla’s battery of today. I say that not to put down the work of these researchers or to pump up Tesla, but rather to put this work in perspective after the hype I’ve seen around it. My passion is the technology, Tesla just happens to have it. Besides cost and energy density, Samsung’s solid state battery would quickly hit material bottlenecks. Silver is a precious metal. Serious battery research focuses on highly-available, cheap materials like Lithium, Nickel, Graphite, and Sulphur. This is the way. Millions of tons tonnes of material will be required to feed the 2-3 terawatt hours of battery production we can expect to see by 2030. This is part of the reason I’m so passionate about battery research from people like Jeff Dahn, who’s repeatedly said he only wants to work on research if it’s useful. Or, the Battery 500 consortium that’s working hand in hand with industry partners on pathfinders to high energy density, low cost, commercially viable technology. Overall, if I were to give this paper a rating, I’d say it warrants 5 out of 10. One out of five points for usefulness and four out of five points for interesting. Over the next few months, besides battery day, my focus will be to break down other battery chemistries and materials in a similar way. I’ll highlight their positives, negatives, and when we might expect to see them, or if we’ll never see them. If you enjoyed this video, please consider supporting me on Patreon with the link at the end of the video or snag something off the merch shelf below. I am also active on Twitter and Reddit. You can find the details of those in the description and I look forward to hearing from you. A special thanks to Keith Crider, Hudd, and Bryce Langlotz for your generous support of the channel, and all the other patrons listed in the credits. I appreciate all of your support, and thanks for tuning in. 