 What's next Captain? Well I believe you've got a little side project going on haven't ya? Yes a complete surprise as it turns out Oh how I love boat surprises!  Let me show you A few people have asked why we are paying 150 euros a month to stay in the studio apartment when we can actually stay on board A B Sea in this yard when the reality is because right now A B Sea looks like this Well this generally is stored in here and I've taken it out Bazzy because when I was in here looking for something and I noticed that some of these are wet, they've got salt - somehow salt water is getting in there - not a lot but some of them are damp, damp enough that they need drying out. This is the underneath of the switch for the windlass. This is the down switch, it could be coming in through there because the silicon is well, is not very good so we might have to remove the switch and re-silicon that and if we're gonna do that we'll do the other one as well because again there's the silicon there So it could be could be the silicon that just needs replacing at the two switches There were a couple of comments that were showing some concern about Aannsha going up the mast while we were on the hard and yeah it's generally frowned upon that you go up the mast on the hard but I am very very confident in the stands here at the boatyard. They are solidly built, I'll show you now So this is the stand at the aft of the boat and as you can see solidly built good leg surface area and not designed to move at all. Then we've got this other jack stand here and another big one here.  We got these side props on either side and just like that it is at the back they've also got the same sort of big chunky stands here at the front and there as well. So we were quite confident that Aannsha was gonna be safe, she was only going halfway up the mast anyway not all the way to the top so yeah it's one of those can of worms subjects isn't it? I was always at the understanding that the anode should make direct contact with the iron of the keel but this side here looks as though it's got paint underneath whereas the other side has got a bit of paint and some exposure to the iron keel, so let us know in the comments whether it should be completely free of paint or whether it should be painted. I'll just give that a good clean up so when we put the new anodes on  we make good contact The prop shaft anode is held into place by a pair of hex head nuts and bolts and the first one I tried came off fairly straightforward and fairly easily however when I got to the second one the nut and bolt had frozen together so that was a question of spraying with wd-40 let it do its thing for a while and then come back and jam a screwdriver around the edge of the nut to stop it spinning Oh and while I've got you, I just want to say to Nikos, thanks very much for lending is these tools it is making life so much easier for us and also just take a moment here to pause and say hello and welcome aboard to our latest patron Gunter. Thank you for joining the club. Fitting the new anode to the prop shaft was a lot of fun too because the bolts that come with them are just slightly short and you've got to really belt the anode into place and just hope that you get some sort of purchase at some point. It took a while and it was quite frustrating but we got there in the end Dear www.zinite.com please just make the bolts a little bit longer it would make life so much easier. Just a tad I mean when you look at this side it looks fairly okay and you know I probably could have left that on and got a bit more use out of it however when you look at this side you can see it starts to corrode first where the  nut and bolt go through so there's if I lift that on then potentially you know that's just gonna fall off and then I lose the whole anode so best just to take it off and put a new one on I was having a chat with Ant from Ant & Cid Sailing about our battery situation that happened last October where we had to replace all three house batteries and one of the things he suggested was to get a battery de-sulfinator especially if you've got brand new batteries and put it on as soon as you can It keeps the plates inside the batteries from sulphating and gives them a longer lifespan. So I installed this the other day, it's fairly straightforward you just attach the negative wire to the end of your negative connections and your positive wire to the end of your positive connections and then it will pulse throughout all three batteries and basically it just vibrates the the plates and shakes the sulfate off them over time. The instructions said that it would automatically detect whether as 12 24 or 48 volts which it did and then the little red light comes on when it's actually sending a pulse through the batteries. You can also push this little button and it tells you what your  voltage of your batteries are ... currently at 14 volts which is very nice My only concern with the unit is the little beeping noise it makes when the red light is flashing and in the silent darkness at night time will it be an annoying beep for whoever's sleeping in this berth? I might have to put an on-off switch here and switch it off at night First job on the list today is to have a look at the keel bolts and that of course means that we've got to take the saloon seating apart here - just put it next to the galley and take everything out of there and also take the floor of that or the sole of that out as well so if we can get access to the bolts So here's our our keel bolt situation there's a small one here, single one here double there and four here by the lowest  point of the bilge and I'm going to assume there's going to be another three in a bunch there and then there'll be a single one just by the mast. So the ones that we want to inspect are gonna be these here so I'll probably take the glass from that one and the glass from that one and see how they look and while we're here of course we will give the bilge a bluddy good clean We've exposed the top of one of the bolts that goes through the hull and into the keel and just from looking at the top of it it looks you know very solid it doesn't look as though there's any rust but with that being said the nut section is further down in the deeper part of the fibreglassing and it's proving really difficult to cut away the fibreglass and plus the fact I really don't want to do any damage to the nut and bolt so we're gonna say that it's good and clear the bilges and put everything back together. So that's good news. And then I can just resin over the top of that yeah alright, let's do some cleaning. The bilge is looking a bit better. In last week's video we asked you about the water coming out of our kicker at this point when we drop the topping lift and some of you suggested that maybe the kicker or boom vang is actually on upside-down Well I've had a look at it and I don't think it can be turned around and I'll tell you why. If we look at the base of the kicker where this steel cable is attached and follow this all the way up it eventually comes to a pulley here and that pulley comes back down and the cable comes back down and attaches to this block and of course this is our kicker sheet so I don't think that this can be turned around the other way simply because this would then be in the totally wrong configuration. Let us know in the comments below what you think With my curiosity about the keel bolts now quite sated it's time to dig deeper into this little weeping part of the keel and find out what's exactly going on there Looks like a crack that's been badly filled and allowed water to get in there I'm gonna let that dry out a little bit more and I'll take some more of the old caulking away from the hull and keel joint to get a better look at that I've exposed a lot more of this and I'm thinking that this is probably the lower part of the bilge where the bilge pump lives and this is where it meets the keel on the outside so there is quite a lot of water still coming out of here so we're gonna leave that exposed and let it drain out. It's not coming from inside that's for sure because we did the bilges yesterday and they are dry as. So this has got in here from somewhere else possibly up here so we'll certainly fully dry that out before we seal it back up again Once again many many thanks to our great viewers and subscribers who offer us up so many helpful tips and hints, it's really making our boat work on A B Sea go a lot smoother with a lot less casualties along the way! If you like this video remember to leave a thumbs up and subscribe if you're not already a subscriber so that you don't miss out on future episodes of Sailing A B Sea 