 This is the Acousofluidics Forum and Olympics. What is it all about? Well as the name suggests if you think about it,  there's a bit about acoustics and a bit about fluidics. Acoustics travel in fluids but they also move fluids and that's one of the things we're particularly thinking about over these two days, particles moving, fluids moving due to acoustic waves. The event is in Bristol because we in the research group here do a lot of work on acoustofluidics. It's one of our research topics. The Olympics bit is our name for a whole series of demos.  So we invited all sorts of people from universities and companies to come and show us their acoustofluidic devices.  So today we're demonstrating tiny lab which is a small low-cost acoustic levitator. What we've got is load of tiny speakers coming up from different directions and these create a standing wave which is alternating regions of high and low pressure. We trap the particles at low pressure regions between the high pressure regions so we can hold them against gravity. This is purely a demonstration tool but we can adapt the same techniques to hold almost anything in midair. We've used things like this to levitate samples in geology to be able to study how rocks heat and cool without touching anything else. I have a special frequency generator toshow today or to demonstrate here. What we demonstrate is the atomization of liquids, the surface is vibrating with a very large amplitude and this amplitude creates forces which are larger than the surface tension of the liquid and that means droplets are basically vibrated off the surface. The advantage is that the droplets are very small so this might be used to apply medicine into the lungs instead of injecting. A typical treatment is to apply insulin into the body for diabetic people, but any other molecules might fit as well. We are using ultrasound for non-invasive measurements of viscosity and thickness of oils.  We use a novel pulsing technique. We send a continuous wave which forms a standing wave within the components. From the standing wave we can infer the conditions happening at the surface, ie film thickness. This will be used and is actually currently being used inside engine components on bearings and things like wind turbines and just engines in diesel marines.  What I'm looking at today is using sound to manipulate water droplets and visualize the patterns they make.  I have an array with ultrasonic transducers or speakers and these are positioned so they form a standing wave and water droplets will fall gently into this ultrasonic array where the sound waves will manipulate their position and as they fall onto the surface they'll land in a pattern and to help visualize this I'm using a water sensitive paper so it's a nice way of being able to see sound. Whether this is in a manufacturing sense or a particle separation sense, it's still quite early stages but I think it has a lot of potential applications Now is an exciting time in acoustofluidics because we're moving from a phase of fundamental research to a phase of doing applications. There's still quite a lot of fundamental work to be done and a lot of the talks cover that, but now some of those early bits of fundamental research are starting to become the foundations of companies both large and small. I guess for me as an engineer this is an exciting time to be involved in the field because some of the basic physics is in place. Now the question is how do we best use that fundamental physics to to make devices to solve problems. The problems are things like diagnosis of diseases we've heard about as well as assembling things with sound waves so that the small things that that society demands can be made by using acoustic forces. So looking back on the last two days, they've been a tremendous success and there's been a lot of positive energy, a lot of conversations, so I think we're really keen to run this event again and I hope it'll run for many years to come. 