 So I'm gonna go ahead and introduce our first speaker. One thing I just wanted to remind folks of, our speakers specifically, is talk for about 12 to 15 minutes. If you start to get pretty close to that 15-minute mark, 2 minutes or so, I'll just give a quick verbal, hey, two minutes left, so be expecting that. But yeah, so our first speaker is Richard Sever. And Richard is the Assistant Director of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press at Cold Spring Harbor laboratory in New York, and co-founder of the preprint servers, bioRxiv and medRxiv. Richard, you can feel free to go ahead and share your slides, and get started. And I'll be timing it, so you don't have to worry about timing yourself, if that helps. [LAUGH]  Okay, and so you can hear me okay, can you?  Absolutely.  Okay, my screen, so I think we're good.  Yeah.  So, yeah, well, thanks very much for the invitation. I'm excited to be here virtually, if not in real life. So I wanna talk a little bit about preprints, specifically bioRxiv and medRxiv today. But I just wanted to start by saying that all of the things I'm gonna talk about come from Cold Spring Harbor Lab. So it's important to stress, this is in an academic context. Cold Spring Harbor Lab is a mainly molecular biology and genetics lab on the North Shore of Long Island. But we also have a very, very long history of scientific communication. Indeed, the first meetings were held in Cold Spring Harbor more than 100 years ago. This is a slide from the first course held there. And over the subsequent 100 years, we've spent a lot of time in a number of different initiatives. I like to say, we have hundreds of scientists, thousands of visitors, and millions of readers. We have a conference program, we have a graduate school, we do residential lab lecture courses. And we're also involved in dissemination of science, with producing various books, journals, and preprint servers, most recently. And to kind of to explain the importance of preprint servers, I like to show this slide, which is a slide I show the students every year, when I teach them about how the publishing process works. And the point here is that in traditional publication, every academic who's listening will be familiar with this, you submit to a journal. If it's a decent journal, the most likely outcome is that your paper is immediately rejected, you have to start again. If you make it past the editor, then you have to run the gauntlet of referees. If the editor still thinks your paper's halfway decent, the most likely outcome is that you have to revise the paper, which can take months. You might go multiple cycles in this, before anybody can actually read the paper. And then when the paper is published, most of the time it's behind the paywall. So the question is, in the age of the web, whether we should do it this way, and I think I would argue, the answer is no. And then what we should do is decouple the dissemination of the work from its subsequent certification by a journal, by posting a preprint. And so that's what I mean by a preprint, an unpublished manuscript that has yet to go through the formal process of being certified through peer review by a journal. And obviously, there's a precedent for this, that physicists have been doing this for nearly 30 years. ArXiv was founded in 1991, and now has more than a million preprints in computational science, physics, and math. And so inspired by this, we launched bioRxiv in 2013. It's also an academic nonprofit service, completely free, focuses on biological sciences, as it's really intended to complement archive. It's funded by Chan Zuckerberg Initiative and Cold Spring Harbor Lab. And as I say, it's free to read and free to post. And interestingly, since we launched this in 2013, a number of other academic communities decided that this was a good idea. So there's been a real explosion of preprint servers, in a largely nonprofit, discipline-specific manner. Hence, chemistry, ChemRxiv, agriculture, AgriXiv, SocArXiv, PsyArXiv, many of these. And we ourselves, last year, launched m1 as a collaboration with Yale and BMJ Group, to provide a home for clinical preprints. And the reason for creating a separate server was that there are additional concerns about clinical information. So it very much complements bioRxiv, but it has some enhanced screening procedures. There are some additional declarations that authors have to make, really tailored to dissemination of this rather sort of more sensitive information. So what are the benefits, why do this as an author? As I say, the main reason for posting a preprint is to rapidly transmit your results. But it's also an opportunity to get pre-publication feedback from colleagues in the wider scientific community, so that you can improve your papers. So that it ultimately will be better when you send it to a journal, and that process is quicker. It's also a way to increase visibility, especially for early career scientists. A lot of the time, the early career scientists, their sort of time course of their fellowship will be at odds with the time course of publication. With a preprint, you control the time of dissemination. So you can say, here is the work that I've just done, you can read it right now. And this is useful for grant, hiring, and tenure committees who want evidence of recent work. And there are examples like Nikolai Slavov's, that I cite at the right here. Where he got his first faculty position before the work actually appeared in a journal, entirely on the basis of the preprint of a Cell Reports paper. That once his key work appeared, once he was already in the job. So this slide, if you look at the blue curve, just shows what I mean by this delay. The blue curve is the submission to publication times for, [COUGH], excuse me, for journals and PubMed. And you'll see that the median is about six or seven months, but the range goes out beyond two years, three years. It's not unheard of for people to spend three years in peer review. And of course, if you can disseminate it immediately by a preprint, you can see on the far left, that's where bioRxiv sits, which is dissemination within 48 hours, so that's a major time-saving. And what this means for an individual is exemplified by this curve by a former postdoc at Cold Spring Harbor, who now has his own lab. And he describes some work he did recently where, basically, he wrote a paper. He was alerted to on Twitter that it was on bioRxiv, midway through 2017. Started a collaboration with the author of that paper, they started sharing resources, doing experiments. And by January of 2018, they'd actually done a whole series of subsequent experiments, followed up on with this great collaboration. And we're actually getting results from that collaboration in January of 2018. Now, in January of 2018, the paper that he first read midway through 2017 as a preprint was finally published in a journal, pretty much in the same week that he'd finished the follow-on experiments. So for him, that was a seven-month head start. He's a tenure-track individual, he's got five years to make it, seven months is a really big head start. And our hope is that you imagine, if you aggregate all those seven months together, that we really could speed up science. And so Steve Quake with the Biohub in San Francisco has done some back-of-the-envelope calculations that suggest, if you make various assumptions for what that delay means in terms of spread of ideas, and how many ideas it takes to make a discovery? You could actually get to a point where, if everybody posted their papers as preprints, in ten years, you could speed up science five By fault, which I think everybody agrees with good idea, so this is just how file archive works when mostly similar to paper, and gross and administrative check. The check account looks like a paper, it's plagiarism screen, it then goes to group affiliates are essentially faculty members who take a quick look and say that looks like it's science. To me not Very important stresses isn't peer review, they are saying it kind of looks like science, the paper goes live and then an author can resubmit a new version at any time. It's important to stress while you do have the screening process and don't just put up anything, we do have concerns about ethics, don't want to publish things that are non science. Garbage, pseudoscience or plagiarize work there are concerns in the clinical sphere for things like to ensure that patient identities are revealed. So you need some kind of a quick look to the check on that and on the health side that we don't want to post any research that could be dangerous. Like disputed vaccine safety, disease transmission we're all familiar with HIV denialism, etc and toxicity and carcinogenicity. Just we're not going to post a paper that says cigarettes don't cause cancer, so it's important to have that screen assuming you make it through the screen which 90% of More than 90% actually, papers do and the paper goes online. It's it's date stamped on the top right, so you get priority signals and also you can define the article type, where you define all your results, confirmatory results or contradictory results. So that allows people to do reproducibility studies, the manuscript gets a DOI, the author can define the subject area and there's a download link to the PDF. So as you can see here, this is an author's PDF is not typeset like a journal, it's just the PDF that you're presenting. But we do augment this with full text HTML after a couple of days so people can see inline figures. As I say, an author can revise a paper anytime there's a big difference and compare the journal and in the history tab, you see a list of all the prior versions of the article so you can go back and look at them as well as revision summary. Whereas if you say, look this is what's different out about the new version of my paper and that will inform your choices of reader whether or not you wanna read the new version or not. We also provide metrics, so you've article level metrics so you can see how often a paper is downloaded and all metrics for how often it's been blogged about other social media appearances. News mentions that type of thing, which I think horses tend to be interested in and we have we also have on site comments, too increased discussion of work, as I said before the on site comments, but we also aggregate discussions that are occurring elsewhere. So we have a scrolling list of tweets about the article, links to blog post about the article news mentions and a number of dedicated discussion sites that we've been through to appearing so ultimate little bit about those later. And finally, in the feature list is we also provide links to a journal when the article is published. So, after a few months of the article published in the journal then we put a general guideline web language basically this article has now been published and down, you can go and read the first record there. So how are we doing? We actually this weekend just passed 100,000 papers, we're getting through about 3 and a half thousand papers per month. So I think the scientific community are really voting with their feet on bio archive on that archive is obviously a much younger sir but the interesting thing here is. Look at the first half of this plot, so the black line is total papers, the dark bars are submissions and light advisor advice submissions. And what you see is we've got sort of slow growth as expected through through last year. Much like we have done the bio archive seven years ago and then January 19, things exploded as the COVID-19 pandemic and we started we got a huge influx of papers. And before long in March, April, we were getting as many papers on that archive of bio archive about hundred a day and really, that was it was very timely that this was launched because it was incredibly useful for public dissemination. So as I said, hundred thousand papers in bio archive now about 10,000 on that archive, but pretty consistent 30% of these papers are revised and sometimes multiple times, but most of the time, it's just once. We're seeing around 30 million views a month across the two servers and an interesting figure is that more than 70% of these papers end up subsequently being published in journals that's the from bylaws. And it's too early to calculate for not five because we give a time lag about two years before and calculate it because it will be artificially low before then many papers would still be in review. So over this period of the past seven years, it's been great to see these behavioral changes. Many more biologists posting, reading and citing preprints Now I think it's very rare to find a basic science journal that doesn't allow us to post a preprint. That's funders are encouraging that their grantees to siphon printing grants is a big move was when INIH said you can include preprints in your biosketch and we're seeing places like Rockefeller University encouraging Africans to include improvements in their applications. And one of the things that has been nice is the parking of the rate of the recent trends to only talk about old data at meetings preprints allow people to put a stake in the ground. So a lot of times people can talk about new, new research because they're confident that they can put them up on the ground by posting frequent around the time they give a talk at a meeting. One of the things that we want to do with Biwako I've met all of these function as a hub Promote and allow evolution of the communication ecosystem. So obviously, you discover initiatives by archive and that archive of indexed by Metro Google Scholar, Microsoft, academic, so they're all these discovery mechanisms, we link out to journals and other means of evaluating content. And as I say, we we aggregate third party discussions across the web and have provided home for reproducibility studies release confirmatory contradictory results, pedigrees, things that often journalists in the past have been interested in. So as I said, the most obvious point of integration is journals, we have these two technologies JTP and BTJ that allow authors to rap to very, very easily transfer papers from bio archive to a journal, or vice versa. So more than 100 journals participate in BTJ and what this means is that an author can submit to bio archive they completed the submission process, we then say now would you like to submit to a journal there's a big list of journals. They just click on one of those journals and we will send all that information to the journal, that means they don't have to go through the torturous process of re uploading all the files again when they go to the journal website. You can also do the converse Jtb so number of journals like he life and both When you submit to the journal, they will say, it's gonna take us a while to evaluate this paper. Do you wanna put your paper on bio archive right away, you click a button that happens automatically. They don't even have to go to bio archive and both of these are very popular amongst sources. Another collaboration with journals is this project called trip transparent review improvement. Which allows journals to post peer reviews of papers testing alongside a preprint on bio archive. And this is really interesting because it although the display of the peer review is next to the free prin. The decoupling is preserved. Because that page that I've circled there is a hypothesis window, it's an annotation engine. And that's actually controlled by life is not anything to do with bio archive is just allowing it to be displayed there. So it's an interesting example of how something can be decoupled, but very easily discoverable. And I think it's interesting to talk about this decoupling and the possibilities for innovation. And we're already seeing this being promoted by preprints, so here are just a few examples. Perlites is a service from The Company of Biologists, which is essentially a news and views for preprints. Pre-review is a journal club for early career researchers. That allows them to to learn how to peer review by looking at preprints by looking at papers that have yet to undergo peer review. So that's kind of interesting. Review Commons and PCI portable peer review and Institute so you can post your people on bio archive. Review comments in PCI completely independent services. They will review your paper, then you can take those reviews to a journal and say, well, what do you think I've already had this peer review. It's been interesting to see initiative self organizing among the community amid COVID-19 said, Mount Sinai, Johns Hopkins. University of Oxford have all created these networks where they're rapidly reviewing papers on med archive about COVID-19. Because, they think it's really important with millions of people looking at these papers that there is something. Some context for readers, particularly those who may not be experts. And actually, MIT Press have taken this a step further by launching RRC19. Which is essentially a journal whose entire purpose is to review COVID-19 papers on bio archive or med archive. So it'll be interesting to see how that experiment works. And I think ultimately in a sort of post covered world. It will allow us to really answer the question about what peer review should look like in the 21st century. So you know, and we can ask the question, when should care of you take place? And I would argue that 99.9% of papers the peer review should take place after they've been disseminated. Is a proof that people can start reading them. How do you peer review them? If you've already accomplished the dissemination. And maybe the pressure is off and you can think about what's the best way to peer review paper depending on the subject. Maybe if it's a clinical trial, or synthetic biology paper, or a developmental biology paper. Maybe you do something different and because of the decoupling of the dissemination of the work and peer reviewed, that is enabled. Who should be the peer review. Right now, we have a system where, everybody talks about review of paternity and how difficult it is to find peer reviews. But simultaneously there are complaints that the global south and early career searches that usually unrepresented in the peer review process. Again, does the decoupling will allow us to rethink care of you and allow that second problem all these people who want to peer review papers and aren't solved the first problem. Which is that we don't have enough peer reviews. We'll see. And then finally, which papers should be peer reviewed? There's a good argument that there are some papers archival papers. In a very niche area and a small number of specialists all of whom are perfectly capable of assessing themselves. So I mean one question is do we need to bother to appear of you those papers tip at all and maybe the peer review is in the reading in those nice girls. That's question that we can ask. I think it is important to think about peer review. It's often mistaken felt that somehow posting a preprint means that you're not for peer review or if you're in favor of frequency. That you really don't take much apparently I don't think that's the case. Decoupling doesn't mean that one doesn't take place. And I think in this day and age and particularly, that's the kind of the experience of COVID-19 means. That we really do need forms of review. To signal the trustworthiness of science and actually, maybe we can start thinking about how we can do better. And so this is an article that Kathleen Hall Jamieson. Who wrote cyber war, wrote with myself, very clever from plus. Marshall now who's president of National Academy of Science. And in it we talked about the different ways in which we can signal trustworthy science. And trustworthiness of science and articles, including things like badges that show ethical adherence to various things. Check for the checklist. People can go through greater transparency forward linking to either discussions and events that take place after the article is available online ID verification, etc. And all of these things that could be enabled by the deep department. So I think there's a lot of experiments that can be done. In a post free print world. And just finally, I'd like to thank everybody who's been involved in the work on bio archive in that archive. It's quite common to think that, it's just a website and you're not being interviewed. So you just sling things up there. But actually it's taken a huge amount of work and it's been incredible. With the deluge of papers on COVID-19. So there's a lot of people are covering poverty basically working seven days a week for months. We have great collaborations with the Yale and BMJ team. Fantastic support the Chan Zuckerberg initiative. Technology partners, partnerships with high wire press in Silicon Valley, Google and hypothesis and again. Great collaborations with publishers like class EMBO, Elife and your organization's like reparative science. So that's all I have to say today. Thank you very much.  Thank you so much. That was fantastic, Richard, and we do have one. So we had two questions. One of them was retracted because he answered it in the talk. So the second one here is do you have a sense of citation patterns for bio archive preprints versus their traditionally published versions.  So well so there's a couple of things there. So people are people are looking at citation numbers. And what you see is that the majority of the larger majority of citations accrue to the published version. But that will probably vary. I mean when you look at journal citations most of citations happen in the second year after papers published. So if you think the most preprints in about two years again and be published in the journal paper when people make a citation choice. They will choose the journal first, which I think is the right thing to do. So I think the numbers are somewhere between one and about 5% of citations to the briefing version. What is interesting is that there's a few signs now. That if you compare papers that are posted on bio archive. And you try and find equivalent papers that were not posted as a proof and then the ones that were posted on bio archive get more citations in total. They definitely get more readers. And that's interesting because it suggests that maybe two bites of the cherry. The frequent and the published version, get you more citations. But there's a lot of confounding variables in that. So I'm a bit hesitant to make any strong conclusions. Sounds good. Okay, so we do actually have another question, but we do have to move on. So, I'm gonna be sure to flag that question, and during the panel, I'll bring that back up. Thank you so much, Richard, this is fantastic, this is excellent. Okay, so now I am going to cue up our second speaker. This is Cathleen Carley. And Dr. Carley is a professor of Computer Science in the Institute for Software Research here at CMU and IEEE Fellow. And Director for the Center for Computational Analysis of Social and Organizational Systems, CASOS. And Director for the Center of Informed Democracy and Social Cybersecurity, and that's here at CMU as well. And I'm very excited for this talk, and Dr. Carly again in 15 minutes or so, once you start to get to about the 2 minute mark, I'll send you a private message in chat just to let you know.  I have to hit chat open, okay, yeah.  [LAUGH] I'll send you a private message, yeah? Feel free to go ahead.  All right, so, hello everyone and thank you so much for having me. So I'm going to be talking about disinformation and social influence. And in particular, trying to show you how that is currently being used to drive an anti science bias. And how it's actually being used to spread non science as though it were science. So, cuz this information is not new, it's always been around, on the left you'll see a picture of a bas-relief of Ramses the second. Where Ramses is claiming that, he won this battle over the Hittite people, and in point he actually lost. And what did succeed though, was his propaganda. Today disinformation is much more elaborate and cost much less to develop, and probably doesn't last quite as long as that bas-relief. But for example, a common one that is very science oriented and during Covid-19, is that Bill Gates actually created the Covid-19 Virus, the SARS 19. And that he did that in order to create a new world order. Because once the virus is out there and spread worldwide it would cause everybody to go into lockdown. Once they were all in lockdown, they would then go cashless, because no one can go to stores, and everything has to be done without hands. And then same time they would install 5G towers all over the world. And those would allow you to control RFID chips. Now that's true. Okay, and the RFID chips though could be implanted in bodies. And so, the vaccine which he also created would be injected as it was injected into you, would contain an RFID chip. That'd allow the governments, or the new world order to control you though these 5G towers. This particular piece of pseudo science and they're even posting it as science, is actually all over the internet and is actually part of the campaign to convince people not to get vaccinated. If and when the vaccine were to come out for COVID-19, course it's simply not true. So how does disinformation spread, and what is it like? Disinformation actually has many phases. You might think it's just inaccurate facts, in fact that's not the dominant part of the problem. That's a plan, there are fact checkers out there and so on, and you can look at. Deep fakes as everyone's talking about today, again, those are extremely rare. But the real problem is a lot of what's called disinformation is actually spread through the youths of illogic, through unsupported opinions, through misleading anecdotes and through pseudo science. It is often spread by bots, and trolls, and memes, and cyborgs. Conducting campaigns to both create groups who are receptive to these messages, and then just print those messages to them. The reason it works this way is because social media much like science is organized into topic groups. That is you have a set of people who are interested in a particular issue. Like were all interested in DNA, or were all interested in network science, or were all interested in the World Cup, okay? And those people talk to each other, but they also talk about the same things. These groups online, can become very pathological, just as academic departments can. Because not only do they talk to each other, they only talk to each other, and they own and get into what's called an echo-chamber. Where they're all talk very tightly connected and very much talking about the same thing. And once they are in those forms, it is very easy to send, excite messages or just main messages. And actually topple those groups over through the psychological process called amygdala hijack into responding to the world emotionally rather than rationally. And at that point if you can do that, you've lost them to scientific and critical thinking. So what is happening is that messages are crafted and people are adjusting things to the digital air ways. To actually take advantage of the way things like Google search works or the prioritization rules and Twitter etc. So that their messages always get to you first. It is much easier to find pseudo science on Google, for example, than it is to find real science. They also exploit the way your mind works, and the kind of confirmation biases you have, your escalation commitment to make you think that once you've found this piece of information, it is true. And in fact studies now show that, people are not able to generally discern what information is false, particularly, if it appears to be part of their group's norm, okay?  So for example, Democrats can't tell that democratic puzzles are false. Republicans cannot tell that republican puzzles are false for example. In addition, all these things are exploiting something called social cognition. Which is, these heuristics that our brain uses to make sense of the world. In terms, and the vast quantities of information, in terms of generalizations and in terms of groups. So when you hear people say well, everybody knows that the moon is made of green cheese, then you'll say, yeah, I guess it is made of green cheese. And social cognition actually leads you through an influence process, to start believing and thinking with those that you interact with really believe. So on social media, we just get you to interact with the right people or non people, and then you will start believing and thinking about those kinds of things. Similar kinds of processes underlie why there are camps in science that fight about the different approaches to solving a particular problem. Some of the key ideas, of course, is that there are these now with social media, with online archives. They're the super spreaders who have extreme capability of getting their message out there. That doesn't mean anybody believes it. It just means it gets out to a lot of people. So one of the things that you see happening, is you see super spreaders out there spouting pseudo science. And the information gets out to tons of people. Then you have these super friends who are involved in two way dialogues. They're talking about well you know this is kind of true, yeah, I really think it's kind of true, well my cousin said. And they get involve in dialogue with you and can convince you of things that aren't true. And finally, there's the echo-chambers, which on the surface look like a lot of these super friends. What is being manipulated is actually both the content, the stories that are being told, the narrative, the words that are being used and the way things are described as well as the groups. Groups in the online forums and it doesn't matter if you're talking about Reddit or Google groups or anything like that are being manipulated so that they are constructing. Who is actually talking to whom and who the opinion leaders are. And this can all be done of course by just simple messaging. The kinds of tools that are used are bots, which are fully automated accounts cyborgs that are part human part bots, trolls that are humans hiding under pseudonyms. And so on. As well as utilizing means utilizing the subconscious cues and messages such as light colors and happy words to make you think about things a certain way and of course, the likes videos. All of these things are out there. These things are used together to create what I call date persona. Date persona are things that you might think is a real person, like a real scientist but they don't really exist. And these fake persona are actually, have underlying links to people who write fake science papers. Some of which have gotten into archive. Don't know about the medical one. They've gotten into archive, the computer science one. In terms of understanding the influence campaigns, we often look at who was communicating what to whom, with what impact. And a lot what we find is that in fact, the way you communicate is by getting people to engage in particular discussions. Creating excitement, enhancing messages, dismissing certain messages, creating distractions. There's a set of tactics that are actually used to actually spread disinformation or even regular information. Though some of these tactics involve shaping the content but other tactics, such as building a group or bridging between two groups. Or nuking an opinion leader are actually shaped are actually designed to actually affect who is talking to whom. And to actually create, like I said, local opinion leaders for particular things. So we've actually developed measures for all of these things and can actually measure them on. Posts and those posts could be social media posts. They could also be abstracts and authorship lists from various articles online or in other archives. These up Techniques are actually used to conduct influence operations, to actually change how you think about things. For example. During trying juncture, which is a NATO exercise. They have this thing called the Viking Warrior campaign to try to convince people to do that. NATO was good and to join NATO because it was built with lots of good looking guys, who are out there doing their bit for humanity. That was a very expensive campaign, disinformation can be very cheap. For example, Russia put out this dismay campaign, where they showed simply a meme of the defense minister of Russia coupled with a meme of the defense ministry. The there's of Sweden, Norway, and the Netherlands. The implication is thresh as strong. NATO is weak because they have all these nice women who smiled running the military. And they don't really understand the military. It had much higher impact. This information can be done very jiggly. And therefore can spread very quickly. These are two more just information campaigns, one is used to build a group and one used to nuke a group. On the left, what you are seeing is that was done with. Where you had a set of young men who did not know each other, But they have one thing in common. They all like to share like porn images of women. They did not know each other didn't so on. Bots came in and started sending out messages that. Naturally told each of the guys about each other, which formed a group of these young guys and then once they did that. They then told them where to go to get rifles and where to go start fighting in the Euro Maidan revolution. So they created revolutionaries. That same tactic we're seeing today being used in the anti Vax campaigns to to actually build groups that are anti science. Who hadn't even thought about science prior to that. On the right, you're seeing what's called a typical geo fence. Or denial of service attack in social media. Where they're just blanketing the airwaves. And therefore covering all of Finland with just simply counting from zero to infinity in Finnish numbers Okay. And therefore blanking out all the other information. So you can't even go in and see what they're talking about. These kinds of tactics have also been used during COVID-19 to blank out certain areas and to actually attack certain underrepresented groups. In a polarization campaigns.. What you see is you have bots, trolls, cyborgs. Join groups like they've joined the probax groups. They've joined the anti Vax groups, then they boost the numbers of those. Then they send out things that build more connections among the members, which is basically converting them to be more and more like an echo chamber. Then they wait for some message to come out that is pro or that is either happy or angry on one side or the other and And then they counter it with messages on the other side. Which are then amplified by bots. So for example, the story comes out that says, hey, there's a new vaccine for COVID the anti-vax side will say, yeah, but it actually has the RFID chip in it. So they're going to control you. Or it's going to sterilize you, so don't take it. So. And then which makes the groups angrier than they engage with more backing and engaging community, by building up the opinion leaders. Getting these two groups to not talk to each other and getting them to be more and more upset, which actually makes it hard and will make it hard. To actually deliver a vaccine once it actually comes out. So disinformation campaigns you basically are done like this you find the controversial issues you embed bots and trolls on each side. You build the ties you foster fear. And once you do call for protests, you spread this information. So on this tactic was actually used on the reopen America campaigns. We saw new accounts created. You saw spiking those new accounts came in. The ones that were pro reopened were all coordinated and organized and started spreading not just pro reopen messages, but at the same time anti science messages. At the same time anti backs messages. Do not wear mask messages, and they cited papers that had appeared in pre print series and link to series that said that you don't really need masks. They won't necessarily save you from COVID-19. Also stories about fake pandemics and that the job losses and people and hospitals being empty. In our own state in Pennsylvania we saw as they formed an echo chamber that was focused around the pro. You know reopened side that was filled with a large number of bots. These bots not only pushed the anti science the pro reopened side. But they also began some of them began to attack Governor Wolf. One of the bots in particular that girl center five was actually backing, alternative opinion leaders and building up the group. And was actually building up the group and was bringing in more excitement to them about where and when the various protests would be as part of this campaign. She is also one of the ones who is spreading an anti science message. So disinformation is all that is being spread is also spreading intolerance in the Philippines and in many other countries the increase in disinformation during COVID-19. Has led to hate communities forming these often rapidly go away but in the US they have managed to stay, they become very stable. And although many of them started off as being. You know, negative toward the people on the ships and negative. You know, toward China, they have now become very stable and they are being redirected in their hate. Who are negativity towards science and negativity toward democrats and negativity toward it. The African American community have negativity toward the LGBTQ community and so on. And they are being directed at a variety of things. At the same time, bots are basically being used to link more and more these hate groups together and that make them larger. Associated with that has been a growing anti-science trend in social media. And in particular, we saw a surge in April, with a surge of new attacks against expert advisors, and of those spreading that information on Twitter 69% had boot-like behavior. So we saw this increase in attacks and an increase in means that were directed at trying to reduce the scientific influence. So these are some of the things I, in my group study, we can find out more in our website and so on here, but with that, I'll stop.  Wonderful, you did perfect on time. [LAUGH] That was absolutely perfect. Let's see. You're Dr, Carley. I didn't see any questions come in, at least, at this stage. I'm sure at the panel we will. If anybody in the next 30 seconds has a question, feel free to say.  Sorry, I'm.  Okay.  Yeah, maybe Alex, would you like to unmute yourself?  Sure. My name is Lex Kravitz. I was just wondering if there's effective ways to reduce the influence of these networks and whether it requires the social media companies themselves or what your thoughts are on solutions?  Yeah. So let me begin by saying that there are a lot of bot networks that are actually doing good things, for example, but networks are also used to warn people that tsunamis are coming and so on. And some of the button networks just simply rebroadcast news. So they're not all created equal. If there are things you can do to stop them. Once is you yourself to quit. Do you know don't just automatically follow anyone who follows you because your get giving them that a lot of those will be bought and you'll giving them more power. Make sure you actually physically know people. The other, the other thing is just because something's trending in your. Bucks don't go with what's at the top, actually scroll down because the bots are getting it at the top and if you go down you'll get more real information often. So those are a couple of things you can do. You can also report bots, although Twitter and other places are very unlikely they don't really like taking them down because it's against their business model. And it takes a lot to actually prove that something's a bot. So one of the best things you can do in that sense is just ignore them.  Great, thank you.  Yeah.  Let's see. And we have time. So we add one more that came into. It is, yeah, so the question is, is it good to differentiate between trolls and bots or can you consider them as potential high bid hybrid troll bots? Is that a conversation that ever comes up?  Yeah, so we actually, the way we use the term troll, it has to be a human being. It's a human being who's hiding under a fake persona, who is actually engaged in the hate speech, and in what's called identity bashing. That means they pick like a subgroup, it may be police or it may be An ethnic minority like Muslim or maybe some other kind of group, and they will start using hate speech against those kinds of groups. So that's the way we use trolls. We recognize that in the media, sometimes they'll talk about troll farms. often they're talking about individuals running a set of bots and those are what we call cyborgs.  Great, and one more very quick one. Again, we're so doing great on time. This one I think you had started to address quite a bit. Yeah, so the person just said you pretty much addressed this. It was the idea of just becoming self-aware and kind of ourselves becoming vaccinated against This, you know.  Yeah.  Against sort of, yeah, you did a great job in addressing that. So. Okay, great. Well, if any others come in I'll we'll look at those in the panel. Excellent. Thank you, Doctor Carly.  Pleasure.  Okay, so I am going to introduce our third and final speaker of this session. I'm very happy to introduce Sarah Qidan. And let's see, I'm gonna go ahead and get violet Cecilia Kaitlin is a technologist and researcher, working at the intersection of technology and society. She's a Marie Curie Research Fellow on open design and trusted thing, which is a joint program between Northumbria University and Mozilla. And Her research focuses on the impact of technology and the internet for grassroots communities and neighborhoods. So, yes, Sarah, you can feel free to go ahead share screen and again, once you get to about the two minute mark, I'll just send you a private message and chat.  Great, thank you I hope everyone can hear me. I should begin by apologizing that I do not have slides like the other panelists, but I'll try my very best to explain my points. Thank you to the previous panelists for the excellent presentations. My name is Sarah Keaton and I am Marie Curie Research Fellow on opendata as I have already been introduced. Our project aims to explore how to build a more open, secure and trustworthy Internet of things. So the project started at the University of Dundee in Scotland where I'm currently best and it has now moved to Northumbria University, Newcastle. And my research is basically trying to explore possibilities for smaller scale local, Internet of Thing Technology and how communities and neighborhoods can be supported in making the best use of them. And to the focus of my talk today also talking about other spaces that I have been involved in. I'll be talking about openness for internet policy and building equity. So I just wanted to start by saying that as human beings we are curious naturally if you hide something or if you see what's that confidential top secret, suddenly you just want to know what's behind those words. And it's just by nature that we want to be like this. And in fact, a lot of misunderstandings happen because we are not being open even if sometimes there's nothing to hide. And I want to use the example of openness in internet policy and why I believe that such openness should be encouraged in other spaces. Let me take you back to 1969 to the Advanced Research Projects Agency network, commonly known as ARPANET, which has now grown to be the internet as we know it. I think this information is known by many, but for the benefit of those who do not know ARPANET was run by the United States Department of Defense and it was the fast network or internet related project geared towards research. So in September of 1969, the UCLA was the very first location to host the first node on the internet. And the first message or email, if you will, was sent to Stanford Research Institute which was not to in October of the same year. So by the end of 1969, a panicles able to connect four locations who had UCLA University of California in Santa Barbara, Stanford Research Institute and Utah. 10 years later, of course, it was no longer just the four nodes and. It was very hard to draw the geographic map of the network with the internet. Because of the complex connections and now it's even more complex if you add the layers of products and services that run on the internet from multiple locations. So it's interesting for me to note that something that started as two nodes or four nodes connecting with each other has become very powerful, very big, and in my opinion, very hard to predict. And the fact that we are able to actually present today, file zoom and other conferencing software is just a testament to this enormous growth. So But, of course, this isn't something that happened just like that. There are many things that. Happened or that helped to make it happen, and the one of the things is openness. So the open nature of the networks and architecture allowed people to contribute to add new protocols to add new services and the Internet today still allows for many platforms and services to be added because of the foundation that holds set. So I attended sessions yesterday and today and, open access is something that has come up frequently, I think in almost all the sessions I've attended and related to the growth of the internet is open access for requests, for comments or RFCs. If you've heard about them, which are formal documents drafted by the Internet Engineering Task Force that describe the specifications for a particular technology. So please RFCs are actually public documents they're posted publicly the access to anyone and anyone in the community is actually free to do. To propose something, to write a policy proposal and submit it to the community and I think this is a strength of the internet and the growth of the internet especially, in technical standards, making bodies. And so if you go to spaces like the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers where I participate in the pledge Advisory Committee, where we represent the interests of internet end users to icon and to other spaces, you find that participation is open and all policies are developed in what you say is a multi stakeholder approach. So basically, it's not just the technical community but there are different groups, you have internet service providers, governments, civil society, security people, and different people just coming together to project if you will, the internet. So the internet has been defined as a network of networks, many small, medium and large networks connected to make the one big internet. And I like to use the analogy of the internet being some sort of incomplete puzzle that requires different stakeholders to complete, so it belongs to no one and yet it also belongs to everyone. So everyone basically plays their part and you complete your piece of the puzzle and I would like to recommend a book, roads and bridges. The anti-labor behind our digital infrastructure by Nadia April, I'll post that link on the chat. If you've not traded, I think it's a very good book that talks about, Interesting things. Basically like how you take care of your physical infrastructure, like roads and bridges, you should do the same with digital infrastructure as well and medical records, banks, and things like that or any free and public records. It's a really good book that I like to read, and so in my current research right now in internet of things of course, netizens are growing in number, and I should say actually exploding because we are not just connecting people. We are connecting things, all sorts of things, billions of things and we need to understand and learn from the current standards and what has worked in order to build future internet. And don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that the internet right now is perfect and great because of openness and the multi stakeholder approach. As you've heard from the previous speaker, there's so many issues, surrounding the internet and technology in general. You have bias in artificial intelligence system surveillance, misinformation, the spread of fake news, just so many issues generally. But I think what we need to learn from this is what has helped the internet to grow from just four nodes to Billions of nodes right now. So moving on to building equity, I just want to say that adding the word open to anything does that make it open in real sense. I've seen like many people will add open to to make it feel like their project is open, but there are so many issues to consider that sometimes the space might be open, so it's open software or it's open whatever you call it, and the event some sits on the table, but that does not mean that everyone is welcome. Sometimes we have to extend an invitation to underrepresented voices to have them join us on the table. And once people are on the table, it also does not mean that they have a voice, so many power structures, even in open spaces and those with more power contribute more than those with very little or no power. And sometimes also you have issues like resources, so you have a seat on the table or you have some voice, but you don't, you can't even afford the resources because to participate in these open movement things from coding to software to policy. It's usually on a volunteer basis and many times you're either self funded or you have external funding to allow you participate in open pin spaces. And then I just want to highlight something that has always been with us but somehow, either we were not aware or we chose to ignore or it has been made visible in our faces. Because of the COVID 19 pandemic, and that is the digital divide, just like to remind you that the ITU, the International Telecommunications Union, is still reporting that 53% of the world's population actually has access to the internet. That's slightly more than half of the world's population, depending on who is counting. So three months ago, I mean, three months into the lockdown, I wrote a blog for our project website and I was basically reflecting on things I had seen and observed. I grew up in East Africa, partly in Kenya and mostly in Uganda, and I'm currently living in the UK. So I was like, well, keeping in touch with my family and friends and living here physically, I was just trying to compare things on both sides of the world. And so on the one hand you had One part of the population that continued business as usual, they were working from home attending classes online shopping online and things like that. But there was another part of the population that's completely cut off from information from work from class content, because they don't have access to technology and to the internet. And it's particularly sad for me because at the end of the day both categories of people are required to perform and compete in the exact same way. So, we need to think about these issues and we need to just constantly remember that as we fight for these things, and as we build the tools, there is another half of the world's population that actually has no access and yet they are affected by all the decisions that we make. So I watched as people posted pictures of Bachelor graduation ceremonies, they were defending their PhD theses and just imagining that there's another part of the world where People had been cut off from everything. And this experience is not unique to developing countries alone, in the UK for example, I know the government put in something like 1 billion pounds to tackle the impact of. No stitching time because of the pandemic and I think out of that about 100 million pounds was invested in remote education and delivering laptops and internet to people who that are needed the most so what does this tell us?. It basically tells us that the way we've been doing things is not working well, and we have to find other ways basically all doing this especially in a world that's becoming more technology driven and I think I'm going to stop here. I'll be happy to take any questions if and thank you everyone.  Thank you so much, Sarah, that was fantastic, and I am just again, you can feel free to send me questions in the chat or can feel free to raise your hand and unmute yourself as well. If you have a question Let's see, give that a couple. Yeah, Sarah. I got a question for you just to sort of, started off here. I love the point that you made that just by having the word open, [LAUGH] it doesn't automatically mean that it's. It's gonna be this welcoming, accepting environment. There's a lot of things going on that can impact that. And I think a lot of us on this call are working in these open science initiatives, some of us as librarians, some of us in industry, so on and so forth. And I guess what would be some of your words of wisdom for us? Just like on a daily basis things that we can remember as we're having these conversations on open Science, and open technology and things like that, I would just love to hear your perspective on that.  Yeah. So just to echo what the previous panelists will say is you can't do everything basically, you just have your passion. Part to play and this is why I was talking about it as a puzzle basically so you get your piece that you contribute to eat and if you're looking at it from a multi stakeholder point of view, everyone has a different role to play. So if we start from governments, their role will be in terms of policy and ensuring that the policy is actually effective and it's doing the right things. But if you look at developers, how responsible is the technology that you're building? Is it actually building equity? Is it ensuring Is it giving us social justice and things like that. If you look at us activities, like we just have to continue pushing, like we'll push the government to push the technologies, will push everyone to do their part. So it's not like there's one solution to everything. I think everyone just played, puts that up of the puzzle. And then we'll all complete this puzzle that I was talking about.  Excellent. Yeah, and so we have, we're doing pretty good on time, so we have some questions coming in too. I'm gonna go ahead and pose one of them to you, and the rest hopefully we'll get to in the panel. The first is, what are your thoughts on what we can do to try and equalize access to research data?  Speaking to myself. So there are so many things, I want to start with the point I was talking about access to the internet. So the basics, because before we even talk about access to research data, we're talking about online data like right now with the COVID-19 pandemic. We need to give people access to the very basic that's access to the internet. So there are many solutions you can find local solutions to giving people access to the internet. I don't know if you've heard about community networks, where our communities are actually building and maintaining their own networks using very low-cost solutions and things like that. So, encourage things like that, encourage communities to be able to develop solutions that work for them and then, after that, we start talking about Giving people access to resources. Though I think that has improved if you look maybe 10 years ago, the access to data that we had 10 years ago is not the same that we have right now. So for me, I would personally say that start with the basics and then build on to that.  Wonderful, wonderful. Well, at this point I want to invite our three speakers back, I guess that if we were in person we'd have y'all come to the front but we've got so many great questions coming in and I'm trying to do what I can to sort of Meld them and so it's something that everybody could kind of speak towards. But apologies if some of these seem like they are, again, quite directed. So I'm gonna go to my list. It's a very long list, which is great. So this is a question for Richard. But I really think that anybody could probably speak towards this because it's that theme of participation that keeps coming up it's these open networks and participation. And the question is, at bio archive and just in general, is there any concept like contemplation for a mechanism for flagging preprints that are never published?. So they're put out there but then never published, like, Is there a mechanism to track those?  Well, so it's difficult. It's difficult. I guess the question is what does that mean? Right? So I mean, the simple answer is that we flag preprints that are published. So if the pre-print is not published, then you know, there's an absence of a signal, right? So in some respects, there is the mechanism is just not having the thing that says that it's being published. The question is, is what that means. And that's where it becomes tricky. So, but I mean. On a bigger, longer talk I give, I give examples of some papers that are five years in peer review. So what does it mean? What does it mean to wait five years and then say that I mean, there are examples. You saw that curve I showed there's lots of papers that after too, I mean, I was talking to a friend of mine. The other day was like. You know, I'm trying to get this paper into nature. It's been two years. So when would you do that? The other thing is, another thing I've mentioned is that there's clearly a subgroup of small sub group of papers within quite a few of these big COVID-19 where there's never any intention to publish the work in the first place. So that's kind of, so the reproducibility studies, some of them are like that. But with COVID-19 you see an epidemiological study that's coming out of China in February, in the normal course of events, you would wait X months and then that would appear in a journal, but that X months and the state of play has changed. A lot, so it's almost kind of like a progress report. So I think that's, I think the notion of flagging something as not public doesn't really make sense. But I do think this is where it my last slide I talked about how pollution could take place with badges. And the kind of appending of symbol signals, different signals of trust to manage scripts. And so the facts and not met archive itself means that it's gone through some people screening process. So people don't think it's non-science or pseudoscience, they might still be totally wrong. Then you can imagine these papers accumulate a variety of other things. And so I think that's I suspect that's the way the central focus to doing some interesting things with badges. And I think things like some efforts to test will will kind of sit in that Not ecosystem if that makes sense. It does.  Yeah. So the next question is really for all three of you. Do the panelists see any conflict between solutions intended to have immediate impact on current problems? And solutions intended to have a more long term impact on those foundational issues where those benefits might not be seen for some time. Do we have any thoughts on that? And the person who asked that question, you can feel free to unmute yourself if you'd like if you'd like to add anything to that  Yeah, that was me but you asked it pretty faithfully.  So I'll start us off, we actually see that solutions that Are designed to only have an immediate impact. When they are taken up by governments and by policy makers, often have a long-term impact and often outlive their usefulness. So they rarely die an early death. Okay, we also see that things that would have a long-term impact are less likely to get funded or less, it's not the glamour as glamorous of research. And we often don't see as many people who are, we often see more people who have humanitarian interests, and less technology interests involved in working on those. So we often, so those are some of the tensions that we often see. In terms of let me reverse it, turn it around and say one of the reasons why this information is weird is that, it has both a short and a long term impact. And people often only go after the short-term impact. Okay, can we remove all the stories about drink bleach and you'll get rid of COVID, okay? And things like that they're just information. But without thinking about what that is doing to the long-term, it has impacts for who is actually communicating with you. They're not, it does and like, and it also doesn't get out the real intent of some of those messages, which was not necessary, which was, yes, people drinking bleach it's great if it's all people we don't like to drink it. But the real intent of those messages, was not that the real intent was to signal that there was this white supremacy cult that was becoming a religion and to get people to join it, and they succeeded. And that is the long-term impacts. So often we don't even study long-term impacts.  So yeah, I mean, that's the something that you just said rang true for me. That's there is a danger occasionally with some sort of short-termism approaches. We have a similar phenomenon where, every now and then, an author decides that the paper is wrong or there's some ethical issue with the paper on bio archive. And so what we do is we, and I'd do the same thing, is we execute what's called a withdraw. But just like a journal retraction, we don't actually remove the paper. What happens is that it is labeled is withdrawn. DI defaults to a withdrawal notice but you can still don't see that thing that was withdrawn. And sometimes we actually have disputes with bosses about this, and they say, it was wrong. There was a screw up, my student wasn't supposed to do this. I just want you to take it down. And what the response to that is, that would be the wrong thing to do because it might feel good in the short-term, but the reality is that, that there will be digital footprints across the web. That people would have indexed that, we can't go and tell Google to an index it somebody would have downloaded the PDF. People will have taken the DOI, and if they go back, and they go to a 404 they will say, there's something fishy. What the hell happened here? And they might actually think worse of you as an author. Whereas actually, if we're transparent, and we say there was a paper here, it has been withdrawn. You can go see what was withdrawn, but the important thing is that you also say they don't want it to be considered as part of the citation record for these reasons, and everybody's transparent about it. Then actually in the long-term, it will be better for you as an author, particularly for an innocent bystander. So yeah, so that's certainly true. And I think there are a few that examples like that.  So I'll just like to add that of course technology advances very fast that sometimes by the time you have the solution, whatever you develop the solution for is actually obsolete. Though the ultimately, I think I should say that solution should solve a particular need. So you're developing solutions too, so that means that you have a not just.  Great. Okay, so I'm, I've got another question here and again I would say this is probably, focused more towards Richard and Sarah, but again, anybody. [LAUGH] Can feel free to comment on this, but it's the idea of, so we have the internet as Sarah mentioned, nobody owns it, but everybody owns it. It's sort of at that intersection and, in terms of encouraging people to, stakeholders to play that substantive role in providing comments and adding discourse to these kinds of things. And the specific question that really came from this is, when we think about bio archive, and how a lot of articles are, there's things on Twitter, there's conversations happening. What the questioner said is the discussion of a lot of articles seems to just be limited to retweets, where people are announcing here's this preprint. And does bio archive plan to increase or incentivize sort of a more substantive academic discussion of those posted. So again, that's very directed towards Richard. But I think in general, for other two speakers, it's sort of that idea of how do we encourage, healthy discourse around any of these topics in open science, open technology, disinformation, so on and so forth.  So we I mean, we obviously wanna encourage that we do have, we get on site comments of about 8%, which I would say seems pretty low until you compare it to journals, which is much lower. And there's a lot of discussion on Twitter and third party venues. I think that the challenge is that we can do this, but it's not clear to me how much bio archive or med-archive themselves and do, and one of the challenges we find for any kind of participation like this is academic incentives. Academic I mean, I always say the most precious commodity for any academic is their time. And everybody has no time to do anything. And so, when academics think about how they apportion time they think about what benefit do they get from it. And maybe situations in which there's a direct benefit for them to engage in that kind of discussion that's public and open. But actually right now, there's not much of real incentive to do so. I mean, one of the things that I think would help is particularly for early career researchers, right now the currency of career progression is solely the papers that you produce. And early career researchers at that point in their careers have very few papers. But if we can get to a point where some of the contributions into discussions become more formalized, and in some way recognized as a contribution. So I mean, I always say that if I'm trying to hire somebody in scientific communication editing or something like that, they will typically see their CV which is the two papers that I did in genetics that took me the last four years. But actually be really valuable to me for the sorts of things that I want to employ them to do, as well as those two things they had like 15 other contributions where they would examine somebody else's work. And if we can start, if that I think that will take institutions to start saying we recognize these things is valid academic contributions. And so, I'm all for it like I don't think there's that much beyond providing a venue. I don't think there's that much we can do. I mean it's significant to me that we had this, explosive growth of metal archives and COVID-19, the exponential growth of bio archive from 2013 to 2020. All of this indicated it was satisfying a need. We haven't seen the same kind of growth in the dialogue, but it's difficult to know what one should compare it against. I mean, there's a hell of a lot of discussion going on, on Twitter. Once it didn't exist, free Twitter didn't exist, it pre so hopefully it will come.  So I wanted to follow up on that a little bit. In social media a lot of the discussion is driven by what's printed in blogs. And by images and then videos that you see in YouTube. If people in science got credit for writing blogs and blog posts, and got credit for doing YouTube video. You'd see a higher discussion level about real science. Because right now there are bloggers out there blogging about pseudoscience, about non-scientific facts. And writing videos about them and a lot of the discussion is centered around that. But if we could somehow prioritize those as recognizable, acceptable things that people could get credit for. You would drive more discussion. Sorry, I hope I didn't hit it.  One thing just to add, though, one piece of data that may be interesting here for you. When we survey, we surveyed several thousand bioRxiv authors a year or so ago. And actually what we found was a substantial number of them we're are engaging in conversations based on their papers by email. So I think that the other thing you need to consider we all want to have open discussion. But there are some kinds of discussions that people, by them by the nature of what they're talking about. All by character want to have privately and that's a bit of a shift to happen. To say take a conversation that you're having personally with an author about their results and saying. Okay, now now have that publicly so six billion people can listen to it. And different people will make different choices, but I think we're moving in that direction, but it's a bit-  Yeah, Sarah, there I was interested in hearing your perspective, especially with the open technology that you were talking about. And again, I keep going back to this point because it was so prolific. The idea that they are the Internet's there, nobody owns it and everybody owns it. And I'm interested to hear, from your perspective, the idea of encouraging, healthy dialog. And encouraging stakeholders to really, I guess, play a part in this. What has your experience been like in that?  Yeah, I think generally my experience has been very good, maybe I've just been lucky that I've met people who are welcoming. And if you go to ICANN, Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, for example. They'll have a fellowship program to introduce you to Internet policy development. And they'll tell you this is how you will get involved in Internet policy. And generally, I think right now there are programs that help you to get involved in those spaces. The only thing is you need to know about them for you to be able to participate, which information I don't think is so much out there. But I think generally it's open, it's welcoming, if you have the information. And, yeah, perhaps we need to do more outreach and creating awareness about people. And telling them why they need to contribute to Internet policy, because I know when I started participating about four years ago. I didn't even think that I can contribute to Internet policy. I was just like, that game there, it's for those guys over there. But if we know that the internet affects all of us, then we are more willing to actually participate.  Yeah.  That is an incredibly prolific way to to end this session, and I know I have at least a dozen more questions. [LAUGH] And I apologize to anybody that we didn't get to during this. I'm gonna throw these questions into Slack in our OSS channel. And we can feel free to have that conversation over there as well, but I just wanted to thank the three of you so much. This was such a fantastic panel, fantastic session, all the talks seemed to vary and complement each other. And all three of you were very, very, yeah I'm humbled to listen to your talk. So, okay, well so this is some business more for the broader OSS meeting today. We're gonna go to our lunch break now and we're gonna return it's 2PM, I believe? Yes, 2PM. In the meantime, obviously, Heidre, be sure to have lunch stretch if possible. We also have Gather Town available to you, and I believe there's a Gather Town link earlier in the chat here. And I'm gonna go ahead, and just repost this, so you have it. And Gather Town is a way that you can continue the conversations if you'd like that we had earlier today. It's a fun little platform to have conversations and meet different people. So, yeah at that, thank you so much, everybody and we'll see you back here at 2 o'clock.  Thanks very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thanks. 