 Hello! I’m Maksym Skubenko the fake-hunter! How do fake news stories emerge? For example, when someone blends in their imagination COVID-19 vaccines and putting chips in humans. I’d like to ask you this. It’s good that a coronavirus vaccine has been made. But I’m just a bit worried that chips are also implanted there. What can you say? Hold on. Dad, I need to sort things out first. Well, look. All of it is fake news. It began with a video shared on FB whose author insisted that he found a sensation. Because he was able to - come to think of it - film an electronic chip in a syringe. And not your regular syringe but one with a vaccine in it. Someone argued - even with a coronavirus vaccine. I won’t be surprised if someone tells me that Bill Gates’ signature was spotted on the vaccine’s molecules. First, no matter how much billions of the planet’s residents want it, such a vaccine doesn’t exist. Second, the video to support this fake news shows injections for animals. And yes, it contains a chip implanted in dogs. Like, for them to pass through customs. Unfortunately, I’m not done with biochips yet. Not many understand how those carriers work, being meant to identify DNA molecules. At the same time, many a one is afraid of them. All in vain, because if chips are really implanted, then we got those implants still under Kuchma. What do I mean? The fake news about the chip implanting process allegedly underway in Ukraine. It all started with an FB post of one of Ukrainian dentists. He wrote that in his clinic, it will soon be possible to implant in the body a certified bank card chip. Like, this could be a way to pay for goods at supermarkets, etc. This sounds weird already because implanting a chip just to facilitate settlements in a store is like create a teleporter to take a look at how the tomatoes are growing in your vegetable garden. However, the doctor updated his post the following day saying that the information about implanting biochips in his clinic was a mere joke. That way the man wanted his followers to analyze information and pay no credence to conspiracy theories. However, his previous post was quoted by some media. And despite the author’s refutation, those media didn’t tell their readers that implanting chips in Ukraine is just a not-so-nice joke of a dentist. That’s why we’ll show you the refutation by MoH doctors. All those discussions about chip implants in the world and in Ukraine are fakes. Of course, we don’t have plans to implant chips in Ukrainians. And finally, as absurd a fake news story. This lie was spread in Russia and so it’s not too hard to guess that it’s about Ukrainians. Because Russia is a country where two things spread fast: fake news stories about Ukrainians and COVID-19. By quoting a phrase from a Russian scientist’s interview, someone started to convince others that Ukrainians will all perish due to global warming. But what was it in reality? In reality, the scientist simply assumed in his article that - worst come to worst - global warning will destroy all humanity. That’s sad, of course. However it should be mentioned that no one meant Ukrainians in the article. Probably, the propaganda so distorted the Russians’ worldview that they think that all humanity is Ukrainians. I’m Maksym Skubenko the fake-hunter. Keep your mind sharp and take good care of yourself! See you! 