 SpeedWeek invites you on a  journey into the racing mind. Cutting-edge technologies are enabling us to understand more about the hidden brilliance of the human body than ever before. These advances mean we can capture,  measure and visualize many of the previously invisible workings  of the body and the mind, providing us with ever increasing levels of  informative data and intelligent insight, helping us live smarter and  plan better for the future. Through pioneering companies such as Randox, new technologies are revolutionizing diagnostics, offering predictive and  preventative health management, while data streams from wearable technologies are being analyzed in ever more complex ways. They are providing real-time actionable metrics   that can contribute to shaping  the ultimate quantified self. The beneficial impact of emerging technologies such as these is far-reaching far-reaching. For this event we are going to  look at how their application can have a positive impact on  extreme sporting excellence - from monitoring stress and emotional responses to training for focus, mental  strength and well-being. Welcome to the future of  advanced performance analytics. Dr Danielle Vance from Randox Laboratories explains the science behind their leading-edge predictive and preventative health diagnostics. Almost 40 years of research  and development has culminated in the creation of our disruptive and  revolutionary Biochip Array Technology. A unique property of the Biochip Array Technology is that with just one single patient sample, you can receive up to hundreds of  biomarker results simultaneously, allowing for a rapid and  accurate diagnosis of disease. A vast amount of data is generated at  one time from that single patient sample, and that combined with our complex algorithms, allows you to help prevent and  predict the onset of illness, even before symptoms arise, and a good example of this is our  Alzheimer's disease risk test. Not only does this technology enable the  rapid and accurate diagnosis of disease, but it is also used for the prevention  and prediction of injury and illness. If you think of the Biochip really as a window into the status of one's health  at that particular time point, you're receiving multiple  biomarker results of that patient. It's important not to look at  those biomarkers individually but to analyze the relationship  of those biomarkers, and how that relationship changes over the  duration of a person's life, or for example, over the duration of an athlete's career,  or different time points in their career, for example pre and post race. The World Health Organization estimates  that eighty percent of all heart disease, stroke, type two diabetes, and  up to 50 percent of cancers could be prevented by routinely tracking  the relationship of biomarkers in the blood. It allows you to predict future illness. This way you can stay in control  and take action when appropriate   to prevent or delay the onset of the illness. 