 Dearest Vapers, welcome to my channel! Today is saturday and we're going to take a look to a new product In my hand i have another little box.. What d'you say? Wanna open it? Something is missing... Gloves! You're right... see you on my table.. Before we open this box, all the stickers we already know, stating that this Monarch The Second rda is a replica made by SXK in China Monarchy Vapes fake logo Inside we find a beauty ring, the whole atomizer, a bag with the spares we need for the atty manutenction, and, without any bag, a little screwdriver .. In the bag we have 2 o-rings for the deck, 2 other o-rings for the upper cap section, the deLRin one, 2 little o-r's for the drip tip 1 o-ring , the littlest one , is for the deck, the other goes on the Ultem afc piece 2 gold-plated tiny screws with Phillips head and the last add-ons are the little screwdriver and a solid 510, apparently gold-plated.. Let me introduce you "The Monarch the Second" the new vision of Monarch from Monarchy Vapes As we can see there are no big differences in this new model, the only thing that, just at sight, comes to.. ..my attention is the fact that this atty can be barely less airy than it's bigger brother. In this second version the modders choose to make a beauty ring that goes right under the air port (at an aesthetic level) playing with this color contrast between deLRin and steel. From a personal view, is a beautiful atomizer itself but honestly also in this "naked" rendition is very good to me.. Upper inner diameter of the tip is conic , while the inferior section is cylindrical. The black deLRin piece will go stuck on the barrel , Just one air port for our airflow control On the base we can find an engraved Monarchy Vapes logo, and a laser etched serial number that... just let it go. The atty comes with the solid pin installed by default, but i've yet switched it with the BF one.. Also on the cap we find the same crown engraved and we're going to find another one soon.. when we look at the exploded view of all the pieces.. but..!!! let's first take a look at the deck there a peculiar way of using this half-moon shaped pieces 2 different height levels, Positive section, in this clone, is somewhat oblique, not really straight at all.. And here we find the third crown engraving The positive post looks like its gold-plated, This little space between the posts and right under the positive is just for the juice flooding This was Monarch The Second (clone) deck 9 pieces make the atty first of all, the drip tip the tip,as said above, has 2 different measures, machinings looks nice, at a first look.. Inner diam. is 5.9 mm. external diam. is 8.83 mm. The air piece is made in Ulltem, a thing shared by a lot of modders these days.. Personally, i don't like'em that much, not because of anything else than security..don't wanna vape plastics! especially when we're going to install comp coils , that make much more heat, risking to melt down everything, and, again, vaping plastics! Naaaaaaaaaaahhh... Airflow port is straight, no different directions, just a straight sided single airflow.. This is the halfmoon shaped airflow piece, originally designed and made in the first version of The Monarch This is the section seen from below, i really want you to notice this: this round piece, that goes stuck in the deck with just the little o-ring you see, has this dent, that i don't really know if its designed like this, fits not so well and i guess it won't be so good when temp in the deck rises.. the upper delrin section is thightened with 2 o-rings, differently from the first Monarch, that has a threading.. This is the barrel, with the air port guide.. Machinings are flawless, and i mean FLAWLESS. Seen from the inside things change a lot.. we have 3 different diameters here.. First diameter is the one that will go on the deck, Second one is the airguide, and the third one, that will work as heat sink. first width is .91 mm, intermediate one is 1.66 mm, and the third and last is 2 mm First diameter of the barrel section is 19.76 mm, The airguide one is 18.64 mm, and the heat sinking one goes slightly to 18 mm .. air port is 4.8 mm long, and 2.2 mm large.. This is the deck naked and raw and you can see by yourself.. This is one of the o-rings we've yet seen in the spare bag, this is the tiniest.. Despite the height of the deck, these two kidney shaped housing will give you more autonomy when squonking The peek insulator is well made and stays in place very well, Deck of juice well is 4.7 mm, and this is the positive post, disassembled, and we can see very similar stuff , compared to the first Monarch, gold plated halfmoon shape too.. With this design, with the first Monarch , i was very happy, i like it so much and use it very often.. this is the isolator that will be inserted between the deck and the positive post as much as it can withstand heat the thickness used, bends with the fingers, I doubt the actual durability and the last one, the gold-plated pin, which at a glance looks like another solid pin indeed, they chose to use a transverse hole and not an overhead hole for dispensing the liquid a detail of the posts, where we see a dent at the base of the screws housings that will help us to block the resistance I find this type of post so old-style installing coils with multiple wires is more difficult than the classic post build the resistance is now installed.. A view from above, the resistance value of about 0.30 ohm ENGAGE! As usual Picard gives the start to firing.. it is activated evenly, from the center out.. this is the amount of cotton I have inserted squonk.... squonk... we will see once closed how it works.. We also look at its aesthetic side personally I find it pleasant Once assembled, this atty is leaking as f**k from the airflow port hole This sucker has nothing to do with his predecessor in terms of leaking.. Let's go and test it! There's something wrong here.. From my researches, done in the weeks previous of this video, this atty was described as more tight airflow Maybe its me, i can't see well.. Better now. Test number 2 the contrast is not increased .. having a fused installed , I kept the hole completely open good amount of vapor.. however ... on an aromatic level .... it looks like .... 1 2 on a scale of 20 the aromatic restitution is really low I was very disappointed ... a lot I was expecting something intense ... owning its predecessor Is like comparing day and night, I don't know if you like day or night more what you like least, is certainly this, gives me back very low aromatic notes, much vapor production, on an aromatic level is something .... I don't like ... Does not give me any emotion to say .... WOW!!! this is a very good atomizer ... for me it is not this was the monarch 2 the CLONE version, produced by SXK ahahahahahah a real piece of crap for me .... this is my passion write yours it in the comments monarch 2 by SXK......... Mumble mumble.. I invite to subscribe to my channel I hope you enjoyed this video 