 Dearest vapers, welcome to my channel Today i'm going to test for us all the Fantasy RDA 22.4 mm clone version , made in China, as usual Classic replica little box Once we open the box, we'll find spare parts and accessories, our Fantasy rda itself, and a beauty ring-i also call'em "dropsaver ring"- Let's start with the first couple of spare o-rings for our deck... two more o-rings for tightening the 510 drip tip, two tiny hex screws for the coil installation, we have also a solid pin, that is not a spare part but an add-on, in order to use it in non bf mode, a hex screw that is going to be our bf pin adjustment, (the pin is pre-installed, the rda is bf for default) and also another ,little hex\Allen for tightening our coil Let me introduce you the "total white" Fantasy rda , the total white pieces are POM (Delrin) In the lower side we have no engravings or writings at all, very good thichkness for the peek insulator Airflow system has two holes, one each side, Height (at sight) is 26.4 mm, Diamater is slightly over 22 mm, here we have 22.5 due to a bigger thickness of the cap. Three parts in the pack, deck, cap and tip.. that is a 510 one with thightening double o-ring Being this a conic inner flow, in the downside is 4 mm, while the upper one is 6.3 mm height is 8 mm. this is the cap, as you can see delrin no machining burrs, insulating thickness is very well conceived. As we can see, the internal section is conic, to help the vapor flow, Air hole lenght is 3.8 mm, 2.5 mm in height. the beauty ring height is 6.1 mm This is the heart, with engraved SUS 316 F( a very high performance stainless steel, but i guess here is just some letters, no 316F) Very noticeable that the finishing is low quality stuff Very good thickness of airflow posts, that are not downward or upwards, but straight from the side. The air holes are not counterpost but slightly out of balance, Positive post is insulated and detatchable , as the negative is all-round the deck very simple and intuitive coil installing, very very easy This two half piped housings are, in my honest and personal opionion, almost useless 'cause are not properly made , so you won't have a good position of your coil against the afc. Deck is 2.6 mm deep, from the outside the deck looks good, no visible flaws, but there's no innovation here, just plain good flavorchasing. And when it comes to flavorchasing , even if there is no innovation, i like to know always more, and test, understand and LEARN. Being this a clone/replica rendition, i have to test ( is a thing i like to do because a lot of times i did found hex that were absolutely not fitting at all), if the hex given in the package fits with our 510 positive pin.. too bad when you pull off your pin also the peek insulator comes away too, there's a visible burr on the pin hole. This is the positive piece from above.. Coil is correctly positioned. The half-pipe shaped slots are just for you to have a standard build, but again, they are almost useless. The airflow will impact directly with the mid-lower end of our coil A coil view from above which resistance is 0.24 Ohm This is the amount of cotton i choose to put inside my comp coil This is how the deck looks when properly built and wicked. As you can see this side housing help you for a well positioned wicking One thing i must do in all my videos, having here a squonk atty, is the squonk test...let's see how it flows.. Click here for my video of #PureBf by Fumytech France and DBVape Juice flows very easily, triyng to oversquonking you can see by yourself that there is no leaking at all, even when the level of the juice reaches the apex of each air slot ENGAGE! In full mech mode the reactivity is good, Take a look at the aesthetics i've choosen a total white solution mounting my atty on the beautiful PureBF FLAVOR TEST.. I had some little prejudices about this clone, almost due to the fact that aesthetically is not so appealing.. Incredibly, this atomizer surprised me in a totally positive way A bit obstructed airflow Innovations? Not at all. Very flexible aromatic yield with fruity, creamy stuff or tobacco juices If you want a good flavorbanger this can be for you, but in case you've already some single coil flavor atty you can skip this one ,absolutely. This was the Fantasy rda CLONE Made in China If you liked this video just SUBSCRIBE to my channel, because this is my Passion, write about yours in the comment section! Fantasy rda 22.4 mm clone 