 Hello, everyone, and welcome to today's webinar on how Microsoft transformed our infrastructure services with Azure. My name is Pete Apple and I will be your host for today's session. I'm an Azure engineer in Microsoft's IT organization and been involved with our cloud journey for the last five years. With me now are a couple of our Azure experts. I'm going to take a minute for them to introduce themselves. Let's start with Mekonnen.  All right, thank you, Pete. My name is Mekonnen Kassa and I've been with Microsoft for close to 12 years. But for the last six years, I've been working with Pete and others in the Microsoft infrastructure service area as a Service Manager.  Okay, and now, Sri.  Thank you, Pete and Mekonnen. My name is Sri Kotieswaran. I'm a Senior Program Manager running the Azure transformation program in Microsoft for the past four or five years along with Pete and Mekonnen.  Okay. Great. So, thanks guys. I appreciate that you could be here today, we're going to have a fun time. Before we get started, I'd like to tell everybody in the audience that at any time, you can ask our folks any questions you want by typing it into the Q&A window and I'll read those questions out for our experts to answer. With that, let's get started. All right, let's jump into it.  All right.  So, a little bit about what we're going to cover today. We're going to just give you an overview of the Microsoft environment, talk about our IT teams, how we've operated previously and how we're operating into the future, how we've adopted the cloud. Talk a little bit about how our operations have really evolved and the way that we do our lifecycles these days versus the old style versus now, the way we do it with the cloud. Talk about a little bit of the way that we've transformed some of our core services and talk then a little bit about, from our point of view, what was the tactical and strategic value of the cloud, moving from the on-premises up into Azure and what we gained from that and really how it's helped us to be more efficient. Then a little bit about CPU and OpEx and how those two relate and then how to really try and succeed when you're moving some of your stuff into the cloud. We can go over that and then I'd love to get a ton of questions especially with that on what you see as challenges and what you'd like to try and work through. So, I think, why don't we talk a little bit about what Microsoft IT looks like, so if we could pull that up and take a look a little bit about what we work on day to day. So, we are essentially the IT folks much like you would be an IT person over in your organization. So, if you think of a large corporation that has a large footprint to try and manage, that's what we do day to day. We've got about 100,000 employees in the Active Directory. Probably double that when you add in vendors and partners and various folks that come in once in a while. Then we have a ton of Skype calls that we take care of day to day. We make sure that all the devices within the organization are up to date and connected and do all the right things on the network. We have a whole bunch of documents we take care of, transactions that we process, we handle all the sales, all the marketing, make sure revenue gets reported, all the SAP gets managed so that Microsoft reports its revenue on time, it does all the right things.  Oh, absolutely.  Very important for all of us in our paychecks, we think that's a great thing that makes sure have happened. Then we make sure that all the IoT stuff. Now, the interesting thing is in the middle there, we've actually been doing this for the last five plus years. We started out with zero Azure footprint and we now have about 89, 90% of the on-premises environment moved into the cloud or retired as we've found it either redundant or we could just build it on the fly. So, that's about 1,600, 1,650 applications. Anywhere from the scale and size of SAP to the app that manages the sodas in the machines, in the cafes, and all of the RENF and everything that has to do with real estate.  The BJIT, the FISCO and all that.  Yeah. So, it's been an amazing-  Journey.  -transformation. So, what would you say were some of the bigger properties that you worked with over the time?  Well, our source code storing system would be one of them. Of course, SAP. Again as you remember, Pete, at one point, we had almost close to 50,000 OS instances over 125 SAN storage arrays with 50 petabytes of data capacity. Maybe I think about 35 petabyte written. We used to get tens of thousands of change requests and even more incidents as well. So, all of these 1,800 line of business applications is what we call them, right?  Sure,.  And all of these users used to generate all kinds of requests, change requests, and incidents. Just looking back, it was just-  It was a little crazy.  Oh, boy. It was.  Okay. We'll jump to the next slide here, and I think we can, why don't you just give an overview of the way it was before, the before picture?  Oh, absolutely. So, as I was saying, with all that footprint, the tens of thousands of servers, hundreds of storage, and thousands of OnPrem hosts and I think, at one point, we had over 4,000 Hyper-V hosts. The way we did it is, just like any other IT shop, we had to go through what is it that we want to do, what is really the infrastructure service strategy going to look like for one year, two years, three years? Once we decide that, our engineers will go and design the architecture, right? What kind of hosts do we need, what's the SKU, and what kind of technology is really available out there. Based on that, they define the hosting architecture, the storage architecture, the networking architecture. We go through all of that and what data center are we going to co-locate and where and what's the demand like. All of that will be then, and then once all that is done, then we go into the deployment phase of that whole design into our data centers so that the infrastructure becomes available. Then we have to provision it to all these consumers through all kinds of ticketing systems, right? We had ITSM systems where they actually submitted tickets. Then through all that, the release, the transition, the change request and all that, and then the operational aspect of it. So, as everybody knows, our shop was on old IT service framework-based service environment. So, that's where really we started as recently as three or four years ago as you remember.  So, I think one of the things that I recall from the time back then was the large amount of requests, and we actually put in some real efforts in projects to try and start to try and decrease some of that, right?  Oh! Absolutely. Absolutely, I think at one point, we used to get close to 10,000 requests a month. So, we really looked at optimization and cost-cutting and improvement, which really we had to do OnPrem. Fortunately, now, they are all available in Azure. But at that point, we really had three different strategies. One of them was; how can we really self-service these requests instead of them cutting a ticket and a couple of/or three engineers going through it and delivering that change? So, what we did was we used some of our technologies that we have and we made them available on some online websites so that the customers can actually cut a ticket and the system will pick it up and automatically process that ticket and fulfill the request. That was really one of the things that we had to do that significantly reduced our tickets from 10,000 or so down to 1,000 or less. Then we had to do some more to bring it down all the way to 100 a month, from 10,000 to 100 a month.  Wow.  Yeah.  All right. We're going to jump ahead to the next.  All right.  So, when we started our cloud transformation journey, we learned a lot of things and one of the key things we learned about is how do we make a decision on where to invest through to migrate to cloud and where not to. Then we divided into four key pillars like pick applications or your portfolio there, I want to be strategic, which is our run business, or it's a sustain business or it's a sunset business. So, whatever the strategic, then we made a decision to move them to either SaaS or PaaS solutions. And all the application that will establish as a run business, we made a decision to migrate them to IaaS or PaaS and optimize it accordingly and sustain, the decision was to go lift and shift as is and not make that much of a investment. Sunset is like basically decommission and retire the environment. If you see the view like when we started this exercise, we figured out when we are an onPrem environment, there was this angst about stability and we were using redundant environment to establish stability in the system, which really costed more and we didn't get a needed stability. It impacted the business agility. The other key things that we learned is around 30%, we are able to optimize for by eliminating the environment. We had like around 16 data centers and right now, we are around six, down to six data centers. So, that is the kind of optimization we are able to achieve by migrating to cloud. When it comes to applications- Basically, we moved all the basic web apps and the portals as a first part of migration, and followed by the application that has a multiple dependencies with high transaction processing needs, and has a high business impact. We left the last one that has SOX compliance, other legal controls to make sure that we implement all the right controls and also the product matures. So, that's how we divided our Azure roadmap. We also cautiously decided to retain certain stuff to remain on the On-Premise because like businesses, so that they can die in vain as the business shuts down, and they move to the new business model. Those applications were being modernized either in PaaS or SaaS solutions.  I think one of the benefits here actually to your point is that the transformation journey itself actually created another opportunity where there were all kinds of servers that were not needed anymore and did actually helped us reach out to the customers and say, "Hey, what are these for?" Then, ended up killing or decommissioning about 30% of the footprint, that was just forgotten and lying around there. So, not only we optimized by transforming, but also we identified servers that were not needed, and about 30% of 50,000 servers is a really significant number.  I remember that exercise of just improving the inventory, understanding what all systems were owned by particular customers and end-users, and then being able to just go and- are you still using this?  Absolutely, Pete. We'll talk about that later, but really once we started to go and validate whether that inventory is really valid, does it exist, does it being used, that's where we started to see all those opportunities.  So, what it really says even here, the advanced technology of Microsoft, we still have the same IT tech dead, and in-process dead, and understanding what our inventory is, and making sure that everybody's using things efficiently. It's true for any IT organization, there's nothing fairly unique about this. Now, I do have one of the first couple of questions. So, I wanted to throw those out for you. Folks wanted to know, did you do very much lift and shift? So, we basically have a little bit out there, but maybe you want to talk about how we actually did some of the lift and shift and how we evaluated the systems for doing that.  Oh, absolutely. I think, I don't actually remember the percentage, but it was first initially. I think it was maybe about five,10 percent, if you remember it. That actually instead of the number, what was very valuable for us when we lift and shift was, it actually kick started for us because we told everybody, don't worry about what SKU you need, whatever you have, just shift it and lift in, and we'll give you whatever SKU you need, right? Because Developers usually want to get the biggest, baddest machine that they can get. So, we said, "Don't worry about it, as long as Azure have that SKU, we'll give you that SKU." So, that is one of the approach. The other one was if you remember, our CIO gave us a mandate saying, "Hey, all the test in Dev environments, non-production environments are candidate to be lifted and shifted. If you remember back then as we were closing TK3.  Right.  Which was really dedicated for our test environment.  Yes.  So, we went through all the servers there and we mandated that all the servers there should be shifted and lifted. I think you completely might say whatever footprint we had there is the one that was shifted and lifted and it was really a very nice opportunity to get our feet wet in Azure, so to speak.  It was a good learning experience actually. We were able to figure out what part of Azure needs to mature and what we need to re-architect from the application perspective.  Absolutely.  Okay, great. Well, let's head on into the next section.  The next slide. So, here really, again, piggybacking on the previous conversation. Really, how did we approach the evolution of this transformation? Of course, just like every other change, when you get started on it, or when you think about it before you get started on it, it can be overwhelming. So, that's why we said, "Wait a minute, let's start with shift and lift," and at that point actually, we owned, if you remember Pete, all the subscriptions. We got all the Azure subscriptions for them and actually our department was the owner of the subscriptions. So, once we owned those subscriptions, whenever they needed to build a VM, or whenever even they had incidents, or whenever when they needed to do some change, they used to go through us. We used to interface all these activities for them between the end-users in Azure, and I'm sure you remember this very well as well Pete, we actually had to build all kinds of tools and documentations and Wiki sites for them to show them, hey, this is how we're doing it for you now, but later on you'll do it yourself. So, learn, right?  Yes.  So, that's really what you call the white glove kind of treatment. So, we had to help them get familiarized and be comfortable with this new system by us hand-holding them if you will, right? So, that's what we did. Then gradually, we gave them access. Remember Role-Based Access and all these opportunities and features became available, and then we started to be co-owners of that subscription, and sometimes we do something, and sometimes they do something instead of us doing it, right?  Yes.  So, from that, eventually, we actually transitioned to a place where they completely owned the subscription and we, remember we used to say, get out of their way, let them do what they want to do. So, really, the story here is, as you go into this new way of doing business, you have to be there with your customers and making them feel comfortable, helping them along the journey.  So, a related question to that then is, how did your IT change from the traditional ITIL to now? Now that we have the FY18 model and how things are running with DevOps.  Can we wait and talk about that on the next slide because that's really how we plan to close. Hey, well, that's where we were and this is where we are literally.  Absolutely.  Is that okay?  So, we'll come close there, yes.  I will come back to it.  Absolutely. Then there's another quick question here is, do you patch all the systems in IT? So, I think that's a little bit related to this.  Oh, of course. I mean.  The white glove, we did everything.  We actually remember there was a service called Whiteglove, and we actually did go, look at all the servers and tell them, "Hey, can you give us downtime to patch it for you?" Then, actually sometimes, or if they are so busy, and don't give us downtime, remember we used to go actually patch it ourselves after a certain period of time before the patching deadline. So, just like any IT shop, we also had that long-tail problem, if you remember.  Sure.  We used to patch a number of servers consistently, but at the same time, consistently a number of servers used to fail. So, we really had to go after those long-tail problems and focus on them and start to understand what the common factor was that was causing them to fail, and eventually attack within. As you know now, we're consistently close to a hundred percent or very close to a hundred percent on our patching footprint, at least OnPrem, and then we can talk about Azure later.  All right, jump ahead.  All right.  So, when we decided to move to Azure, one of the key thing that we thoughtfully did was to re-assess our processes end-to-end from procure, build, deploy, secure, operate, and optimize. Then, we figured out the process that we established for our OnPrem environment, cannot meet the need for the scale that Azure provides. So, the processes were mainly mostly manual, and they were disconnected, as I said earlier, to bring in stability for the environment, but they were mostly siloed and were not agile enough. So, we formed a group of team who focused on what should be done around the consulting, or capacity, provisioning, security, support, and consumption and cost. The learning was, we came up with a consulting team who was dedicated, who can go assess the design and architecture of the application team, and come up with their pattern based approaches. So, there can be a sharing of best practices. So, this team was a key pillar to understand the changes that happens on the Azure side, and able to understand the application architecture, and be the bridge. So, we can either help our customers to migrate to the right design, or help Azure to go and enable the feature that our customer needs. So, that is the primary function of this consulting team, and they were also responsible for the communication and the knowledge base. We kind of decentralized our knowledge, where we went to a Wiki based approach, where all the team members were able to share their information, and consume the information. The second key aspect was the capacity and forecasting. We used to have just a large team focusing on a manual capacity and forecasting. So, we went away from the manual effort to service-based subscription model. So, we're able to forecast based on the usage pattern of a individual services. So, that was the key. So, we were able to move from this CapEx model of operating to the OpEx model of operations. So, that was the key difference that we were able to transform to. The next one was the provisioning. We used to have the centralized Provisioning Team and again it was all the manual processes. We used to have the ITGlue, our own app to do that. Again, when it came to Azure, we were not able to meet the speed at which the Azure is diluting the features. So, we went away from this centralized provisioning to the decentralized provisioning using the ARM templates. Also, we established a shared ExpressRoute, so that instead of having your individual circuits, you can have a shared circuits across the board, so people can go and consume the connectivity as a self-service model. The other key aspect of we have to balance or agility with the security, and here we established where we can have a real-time security monitoring, and also how do we monitor the endpoints in a continuous way. Previously, we used to have these processes where all the checks would be done manual, and once you consume, there is no automated way to keep continuous monitoring here. In this case, we trusted our customers to consume the service, and as a part of our ARM templates, we have the security defined, the boundary defined. So, we give the freedom for our engineers to be agile, at the same time able to operate securely. Moving on to the next pillar is the operate and the support. Here, one of the key difference we went to the DRI model, so instead of having this layered support approach, we went to the DRI model where for every service there is a DRI, and if something breaks that directly responsible individual is going to be your point of contact for the customers to resolve issues. In this way, the mean time to repair got improved considerably. The final one is the optimization. As we moved away from the CapEx to OpEx model, it became very important how our engineers consume the service. There is the freedom to consume the service, but are they consuming it to the right financial need as what we've focused on. We rolled out Azure resource optimization playbook and the tools to support that, so we gave a business intelligence view to the leadership team and to the engineering team to understand what exactly the place where they're over consuming and where they're under utilizing, so they can go and optimize their own portfolio based on service and subscriptions.  Yeah, absolutely. I think that's very good points Sri. Again, I think, if you were to look at this slide, really the left side, the dark blue side is really the old way of doing things, the ITIL way of doing things, and the lighter one is the new Azure based way of doing things. So, really, if I were just to make a couple of points here, security is very important. So, as we gave our in-consumers the flexibility to go do infrastructure consumption as a service, but we also want really to monitor and make sure they are not unnecessarily putting our company at risk. So, we had to have the monitoring and the security standard definition oversight. That's why we had to do. The second point I really wanted to talk about here is really as you go through this initially the cost might be a little bit higher because you are operating your on-prem, and at the same time paying for Azure. So, senior managers sometimes can be a little bit nervous when they see all these costs go up in this stage. Eventually though, you will reap the benefit in the back-end. I think it's important to realize that initially, there might be a little bit uptake on that cost because of the on-prem and the Azure cross.  Running things in parallel for a little while was an uptick, and then it is gotten better, and we're spending less than we were before, so it's been great.  Much, much less.  All right. What's next?  All right. The next slide is really the tasks in process, Sri.  Yeah, so this one basically for all the operational process which we transformed, we moved away from ITGlue that we had and started consuming the native Cloud solutions. So, this basically outlines what are all the technologies per every processes. So, if you see the account management, subscription management, we went to the AIRS, and we started consuming your compute and storage resources using the ARM, and the corporate connectivity using the ExpressRoute API. So, we went large with the API models wherever possible, and then we are focusing on our incident management primarily using the ICM, and a problem management and change management where we transformed from the manual processes to using the Visual Studio Release Manager, and the patching and standards and compliance, using the Azure Operations Management Suite. These are the tools that we have been using and standardizing, so if you can look at as a platform or a framework based on which a common set of framework, with a common set of standards, and a lot of decentralization so, people can go consume those through the APIs and then run their day-to-day business. How Mekonnen mentioned, when it comes to optimization, during the norming phase, there used to be a lot of learning around all consuming the resources. So, we established the Azure resource optimization playbook and the tools got rolled out, where we are able to give an overview of how much an individual is over-consuming by subscription, per resource level, and what it costs, and how it could been avoide or what would have been the cost if it has been properly utilized. So, that drove the cultural changes across the organization, where a general manager or a leadership team is able to understand the cost related and engineers may able to understand how the resource that he can redeploy in a different place to effectively run their application at the right performance they needed.  So, quick question related to this is, are we still using System Center, OMS, a combination? How is that mapped out here?  So, we are using a combination of Azure OMS and systems and the like. For example, in case of monitoring, we moved completely to the Azure monitoring. In case of patching for most other of the part we are transforming from the System Center to the Update Management feature of the Azure OMS suite. There are certain pieces like inventory management where still we rely on System Center management, but as we made sure, the product will be moving away from it into the Azure Management. So, that's how we are migrating the transformation. But, we have a pretty clear strategy on moving everything to a native Cloud, a native Azure technologies.  Yeah, and the one thing I will mention on this slide is we have the account management, the subscription management is managed via the Azure registration system which is actually our internal tool, it's a native Cloud tool but it's internal for Microsoft because we are actually not an EA customer since we're internals, so that is one thing that external customers would not be able to leverage, but they're actually better off using an EA, and using the enterprise agreements that are associated for those large enterprises. So, you actually have it better than we do in some ways in that regard. So, you should be pleased about that. So, I got another quick question with regards to this. When you are talking about it is, who's our end customers and do we run all of it, the operations for Azure, or this is just for IT? So, I think it's pretty clear, this is just IT.  Either. So, this always comes up as I was saying to you earlier Pete, is because we are Microsoft, but we are just any other IT shop within Microsoft. So, our end customers are actually Microsoft Marketing, Microsoft Legal, Microsoft Product Development Teams, Microsoft HR, all these employees, and all these business departments are our customers. So, we provide infrastructure service, support service to these end-users who have about 1,800 applications, and then now what? We turn around and just like any other IT shop, we go to Azure and start consuming services from Azure. So, in that regard really, you can look at us, another IT shop, but just focused on Microsoft IT.  Yeah. Adding to that, as part of this transformation, we came up with a simple mission; our job is to basically realign our operation services to empower the engineers, so that they can build a cool solution that our customers love. So, this entire transformation we are talking about, Azure processes, it's like how do we empower your engineers. All right. That's going to be the key pillar, so that they can go and do wonders with their solutions.  Absolutely that's one key. I think that's a very good point Sri. Another key, another opportunity that we had which is as you said Pete, is going to be very valuable to our audience, is that we actually worked with Azure team very closely, so that the product and the feature in the service offerings of Azure are actually focused and geared towards enterprise IT. Because as we when, remember we used say dog-fooding, I guess I don't know if we call that anymore, but we were actually consuming the Alpha and Beta. Product features from Azure, and we used to give them feedback. So, all this stuff that we did in combination early on, probably now a mature service for our audience.  That's true. When we first started out, there were fewer SKUs available, there were fewer regions. The ExpressRoute had a slower speed. There wasn’t Premium Disks that we have available now. If I had had all the features available back then when we first started, we would've been able to go much faster, and I think any enterprise that was starting today has everything they need to really move a substantial portion of their footprint with Azure.  Also, without going through the pain.  Yes.  That growing pain that we had to go through.  Absolutely. All right, what's next?  Next is really, I think this is probably when I'm hoping I would answer the question that was raised by one of our attendees earlier. So, from that traditional hierarchical waterfall and very framework oriented ITIL service delivery approach, where are we today, right? So, I think that earlier slide also talked about it a little bit. So, right now, really as an infrastructure service providers, as IT shops, we're actually focused on making sure standards are defined and our company, and our intellectual property are not unnecessarily exposed or compromised when infrastructure is being consumed. And at the same time, whenever there are new features, new functionalities coming from Azure, doing the first and best exercise with those and shopping those around so that the engineers can take advantage of those, right? Usually, also work with the Azure teams whenever there are incidents. Sometimes, those incidents can be a little bit complex for our end-consumers to understand, so we kind of play "The middle person" to help the end-customers communicate with Azure service providers. Remember when we had those live sites, especially when we have our financial close periods like quarterly close or yearly close period, we went to Azure and made sure that Azure has a critical business period for us and their dedicated support. So, when we run our closed bridge and our customers are on that bridge, we wanted to make sure support people from Azure were also on the bridge.  Yes.  So, those are really the kind of activities that we play. At the same time though, we still have, though very small, some footprint left On-prem, right?  Sure.  And by learning about how infrastructure service is delivered from Azure, we have actually learned from that experience and started to even convert our On-prem services just like Sri talked about into DevOps and DRI, and then focus on reliability. In the sense that, instead of really an end-customer cutting a ticket to get a VM, why can't we go into infrastructure as a code and give them an API or a work-like tools so that they can get their VMs. Or also write some of these instrumentation so that the infrastructure is more reliable, right? Instead of their service engineer designing and deploying their architecture, now we are actually requiring them to be responsible for the reliability of that infrastructure, right?  Yes.  They need to write instrumentation, they actually need to be there and provide support as DRI, Directly Responsible Individuals so that when they look at the type of incidents that are causing service disruption, when they look at the alerts that are coming in, the service engineers are actually developing better solutions, better design and automation so that these service disruptive events are minimized if not eliminated. So really now, stepping back and looking at where we were three years ago and where we are today, we're really more focused on ensuring the services that are consumed whether on Azure or on On-prem are more reliable and more optimized, more secure of course. And security is really becoming very critical as you know. So, these are really where we are instead of the old days where we actually have to go procure hardware, racks that cable on the data center.  The good old things.  And all that stuff. Remember we used to do debugging as well.  Yes.  We used to have debuggers in the data center. Whenever there was an incident, we used to attach a debugger to the host and do all that kind of debugging. All those days are gone.  Yes.  Now, it's all Azure. Azure is providing that service for us, and we're in the business of really optimizing and making sure everything is reliable, and so on and so forth.  So, we got a couple of questions with regards to this. The first one was; how has the staffing changed as you've moved into the cloud and into this model?  That's a question that we get asked a lot, right? You want to take that or you want me to?  Yeah. I can answer that. So, I'm going to go with a three-phased approach, the norming, forming and storming phase. So, when we're in the norming phase, we are an operation-based organization. And like I mentioned earlier, a lot of things like operations and things were manual, and they were focused vertically where there was a challenge to scale. But we had a lot of suppliers helping us to make our jobs successful during that phase. As we move during there from norming to forming phase and Azure migration took uptake, we kind of changed our discipline from operations to service engineering, and also from Ops PM to engineering PM, and also established the program managers to focus from a customer standpoint. So, we had business relationship managers who tried to understand with the consulting team, the customer point of view and bring that into our solutions and give a feedback and then iterate based on that. During the storming phase, we are moving more towards the DevOps engineer type or the SRE type. So, that is how our discipline is getting changed. And when it comes to the size of our organization, there is this perception that a lot people will be like downsize stuff like that, that's not really the case. We kind of optimize that team so that the people can focus on the right solution and they learn new skills. So, that is the people transformation we saw. At the same time, we are able to reduce our supplier cost by 95% and do more, and learn the new skills that is going to be relevant for the future. So that is how our staffing model got changed.  Sure.  Absolutely. If I may add, I think Sri you bring up a very valid point. As you guys remember earlier on, we decided to hire a managed service supplier. Right? So that, that service supplier can focus on the day-to-day activities for us while we had our full-time employees engineers focus on the transformation part of the work that we needed to do. Right? So, when the transformation and what the future looks like started to get socialized, obviously it created a little bit of nervousness among our staff, and as you guys remember some even left, and some stayed with us, and some transformed. I think that's a very good question. The people aspect to that is very important. So, the way we went about it is, one, we were very transparent about where we were going.  Yep.  That the business is going to change. At the same time, we offered our staff an opportunity to transform their skill set, change their mindset and develop new skills and knowledge capital, so that they can continue to be valuable for us in the future state. So, as as you can see now, even though we don't have that OnPrem infrastructure now, there are all kinds of automation opportunities in the SRE space. There is all kinds of AI machine, learning kind of opportunities to go mine and create automation with all these tools. Early on, there was really a tremendous opportunity for our people to learn about Azure and at the same time, help us transform, but also they became very skilled in Azure. As you remember, some of our people actually went and they ended up joining Azure. Right?  Yes.  So, what I advise people is really be transparent with your staff on what the future looks like, and then have really a conversation with them to show them what opportunities are going to be available in the future. So, I always say this, new technologies kill profession. They don't kill jobs, they kill profession. If you go look back any technologies that came about, it probably killed one type of profession or another, but they ended up creating jobs. Right?  Sure.  Absolutely.  No matter how technology has evolved, there are still more jobs than we can find people to do them, right? So, with this new technology, new transformation, there are all kinds of opportunities. The smart engineers only need to transform to be valuable into that space.  Great. All right. Let's go to the next slide.  Alright.  Excuse me.  So, here we basically talk about the short-term and long-term benefits of migrating to the cloud. So, as I mentioned the three phases during the norming phase when we decided to move to the cloud, we learned by lift and shift. At that point, we kind of over consumed in certain areas. That's when we learned about how to operate in an OpEx, truly OpEx model. Like, how do you move your financial management from org based to service based. Those are all the big key learnings we had during that phase. As Mekonnen mentioned, the drive to migrate the pre-production helped us to reduce our capital expenditure. Those are the short term efficiencies we gained. From a long-term aspect of it, as we started migrating to more of a IaaS and PaaS solutions, our DC need for data-centric drastically reduced, like from 16 it came down to around six. We also started optimizing our lab footprint, which is kind of a huge benefit not only to Microsoft but also to our customers and our shareholders.  Okay. Quick question and I think it relates to this. So, what type of systems are still being kept OnPrem, on premises?  Well, you can say, probably. They are moving to Azure faster than we can say, hey, we have this.  Sure.  As you know, SAP just moved to Azure about a month ago. So, SAP was the one that was still hanging around because of the nature of the application it's just like-  Pure size.  Pure size. Again, speaking of size, that's what we have. Without naming names, we have some systems here at Microsoft that are very transactional and big systems. We used to call them big rocks if you guys remember. So, we have those but they are moving to cloud in Azure faster than I can tell you that they're here.  I think that some of them we've kept them OnPrem because, they're looking at re-architecting them.  Oh, yeah.  So, they're looking at, hey maybe we can re-architect this, move this to a PaaS solution, move it to some sort of more scalable data system where it’s very transactional-  Yeah.  Where you don't necessarily want to replicate these very large systems again. You want to try and split it up and turn it into something that can scale better.  Yeah, Absolutely.  I know that, for example, there's still some of our highest security systems that I think you're involved with as well.  Absolutely.  Where they're essentially behind, double lock and key and we're working through how to get equivalent things with Azure  Absolutely.  For the most part, 90% have moved out. So, it's not really anything about cost or size, it's more a matter of a business decision about which you feel comfortable with.  You're absolutely right. Pete that's actually my full-time job now, to take care of these highly secure high-value assets. It's not that we're keeping them behind because the cloud is not secure, as a matter of fact, recently I've read some articles where they talk about, cloud actually has the benefits of scale, so they can actually do security better than each one of the IT shops can do it. But there are, again to your point, very specific business reasons why we keep these things still with us.  Sure.  But then again, what will happen three months six months from now as things change and business drivers change, who knows? But it is not because of product feature, functionality or what have you of the cloud. I just wanted to say.  There are people that are more cautious in every organization.  Oh! Yes, yes.  So, it is a matter of convincing them and for convincing the people.  Yeah.  It's not a technical issue. It's always convincing the people and making them feel comfortable.  Yeah.  All right. So, what do we have next on the on the agenda.  On the slide?  Yes.  I think this is really related to the cost actually.  Okay.  Yeah. So, this is just a metrics we kind of shared, like how the CPU utilization kind of get optimized over the period of time by using our Azure resource optimization playbook. So, when we started our CPU utilization was around 6%, and then we are able to nearly double it 14%. It seems like a small percentage number, but if you take into consideration like hundred thousand VMs, those comes to a very considerable cost benefits like it comes in millions. It's not only the CPU we kind of measure. We also kind of measure how the utilization of the Azure DB, our VNET utilization, our IP capacity utilization. So, there are different ways we're able to measure the utilization and improve the overall optimization story around the Azure consumption.  Yeah. Absolutely. So, I think what we're trying to say here is, when it's OnPrem, these kind of things you don't care about, right? Because-.  It's already purchased.  It's already purchased, it's already in the data center. Developers usually asked for the biggest baddest machine, you buy it, it's deployed, it's capital expenditure already is there. We really never cared about looking at how much CPU is utilized on these eight core or 16 core system. We never cared about that. But once we moved to Azure and we started paying by use-  Then we started paying attention to say, hey, how is it really being consumed there and through monitoring, tracking and optimizing that, we went from 6-7% percent of CPU utilization, all the way 14%. So, as you said, when you look at tens of thousands of servers and you see how much you're paying and multiply it by that, and you're making effective use of that resource, there is a tremendous value that can be realized.  You can really, I mean, it's at 14%, we've pushed it up even further and we'll continue to push it up as much as we can. It really the analogy is, if you're going on a trip with your car, you drive the car, you come home, you park it in your driveway, you don't leave the car running.  Yeah.  Then go in the house. You figure out a way to be efficient and turn it off on the weekends, after hours, you shrink it down to the right size for the workload. You can be very efficient about deciding the time of year that, the difficult thing when we had the old hardware models was we had to buy the biggest hardware for that particular time of the year. If it was something that was used only at the end of the year, you still had to buy the biggest hardware to support that period. Now with Azure, we can scale up and down depending upon what time of the year. Is it a Christmas focused sort of solution? Great. We'll make it bigger in the last three months of the year and the rest of time we shrink it back down. We're paying less money by the hour. So, that's the efficiencies that you can get from the Cloud.  I hope you'll allow me to use that analogy. That's really a beautiful analogy that you use.  Yes.  Imagine in this space, really you piggybacking on your car analogy, right? If you had different cars.  Yes.  So when you go to work, you're commuting every day, you have an electric car to go in and when you go to the outdoors and you need an SUV, then you will have an SUV.  Absolutely.  When you don't need that SUV, you don't pay for it, right? So, I like that analogy.  Absolutely.  I think that's the flexibility that this service offering provides.  Well, let's talk a little bit how we accomplish it in the next-  The next slide? Yes. Again, really, this slide is all about, at a very high level we talked about a lot of details, but really at a high level, what is it that people need to do or know about in order to be successful at this transformation journey? I think the first thing as we were saying earlier, the first thing to do is really go to Azure and get access. I mean, you don't have to pay anything or you don't even have to have anything special. You can go to portal.Azure.com, and then get a couple of VMs. Right? That will give you access, there's a free trial period, and just kick the tires around. You got to get a VM, deploy an application and see how it works.  Sure.  Really that will give you the comfort level that you need. Right? Then the second thing to do is just like we said earlier, come back and really do some due diligence on the inventory that you have OnPrem. Really, how many servers do you have? How many storage devices do you have? How many hosts? How many clusters? What is it that you have? Well, how many network devices? If you guys remember, we had like hundreds of thousands of network devices, right? So, what is it that you have and know thyself before you really start to go do anything, right? After you do that, then the business value starts to become more obvious because now you know what the cloud is, how to go and go do something, and now you know what you had to deal with from OnPrem standpoint. So, with that, you can actually go to your senior leadership and do your business proposal for this transformation objective. Right? Because now you can fairly accurately monetize or have some success metrics that can show what would be realized. As I said earlier, there might be a cost uptake initially because you have the on-prem you're operating in then you will get in some Azure build, but at least you can show 12 months, 24 months, 48 months two to five years kind of a roadmap to show, hey, here's what we're going to do and by the time we're 80%, 90% on Azure, here is what our cost is going to look like and this is what the cost reduction and then so really, it will make it easier to get that executive sponsorship and leadership approval that you need. So, once you have that then that can go a long way to help you change mindset and get people on board. Right? You're going to need a lot of people to be supporting you in this journey because naturally, some people resist for change, right? Then, after that, you got to have some kind of system. If you remember Pete, we actually used Visual Studio or VSTF of for us to track activities, right?  Sure.  We went into that agile model where we actually had daily scrums. Okay, who's doing what? What's going on? Instead of the old waterfall model, we had to go through backlog, story, feature, and daily scrum, and daily stand up, and all that, so that the priorities are clear for the people to focus on these activities that are more focused on the transformational aspect of that, right. So, as you do that and as some footprint starts to migrate to Azure, then you will track your cost.  Yeah.  You say, "Okay. You know what, from whatever the initial cost was, 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, how is that cost tracking?" Right. That again, senior leadership is all about cost, right.  That is the end of the day.  Yeah, that's the end of the day. So, you show that, and you show that progress, hopefully cost gotten down, optimization, reliability, scalability, going up, that would really seal the deal for you.  All right perfect conclusion. All right, we got I think one more with the resources?  Yeah, the resources is absolutely there.  Absolutely. You can access all of the showcase resources out at our website microsoft.com/ITShowcase. A couple there that are linked in. I just wanted to thank everybody. We're almost at the top of the hour and we want to make sure that we just, before we go, I'd like to ask Mekonnen and Sri probably to just share a key takeaway. What do you think the IT folks out there would like to know or something they can leave with. So, why don't we start with Sri.  So, one of the key takeaway I would suggest is, when you think about Azure journey, start with all the three pillars like people, process, and tools, and really look at them. Having those at the right combination will help the journey to be successful. Also, initially during the learning phase, there will be increase in cost during the norming phase, but as you move to a forming phase, and storming phase like those cost benefits will be entirely different. You will be realizing a lot of cost optimization as you are in the storming phase. So, that will be the key takeaway for me.  Okay.  Absolutely. Yes, I'm just going to piggyback on Sri and focus a little bit on the people, because no matter what you do, you'll still going to need people. Just because you are in Azure doesn't mean that you don't need people to do anything anymore. Right? So, it's really very important to have that honest, transparent conversation with your people, so that you reduce or eliminate anxiety and nervousness, and really show them and offer them the opportunity that they can take advantage of in this new way of delivering services and doing business. So, really having that transparent, open conversation, especially with the engineers that you believe are valuable and critical for you to go through this journey is really important and that's really the key takeaway I think is important here.  Okay. Great, yeah those are couple of good points. I will piggyback on both of those is that, we have people here who have actually already gone through this journey. We're almost at the other end with 90% of the on-premises up in the Azure. So, if you have Microsoft folks that you work with and you want to have a chat with one of us sometime or come in for a briefing or do any of those kind of things, we love to talk to customers, we'd be happy to do that. So, for the online stuff, the on-demand version of this session will be posted to Microsoft.com/ITShowcase fairly soon. Then you can also find a whole bunch of other IT showcase content, business and technical case studies, productivity guides, and other upcoming webinars, we're going to be doing on that side as well. So. I'd love have you go out there, I put a couple of things out there. I know our folks, Sri has a whitepaper out there that we have in the resources. I've got a blog where you can go and see that day-to-day kind of things that we're working through. So, I'd love to have you see those and then get a lot of feedback and be able to have interactions. So, please be sure to join us for future webinars and let folks know, bring your colleagues with you, we love to get all kinds of questions from customers and have that interaction. So, thanks very much, appreciate it.  Thank you. 