 (bright music) - Welcome - Onboard - Our - 350 - Dash - 1000 - Series - [All] Welcome onboard our 350-1000 series. (bright orchestral music) - [Sam] Hello, good morning. - [All] Good morning, welcome aboard. - [Sam] Wow, what a treat, thank you very much. - Guys, super excited, just got onboard the Qatar Airways A350-1000 Series, the very first one in the world, so today we are - [All] Going places together. - Please allow me to show you to your seat. - [Sam] Okay. - Your personal suite. - Ah. I have a personal suite, suite number Nine K. I'm inside the Qsuite, and I have a beautiful window view. My seat Nine K is rear facing, so I'm facing the rear wing, but it is very, very nice, very impressive, and very wide inside. - Good morning and welcome aboard our flight, Qatar Airways 3351, our inaugural flight with the 350-1000. - [Sam] Good morning, Captain, good to see you again, Captain. It's a pleasure to fly with on another inaugural flight. What a fantastic opportunity. - Pleasure to have you aboard. It will take us six hours and eight minutes, and we will be cruising at a final altitude of 41,000 feet. - [Sam] How much take-off weight on this plane we have today, on our flight? - Today, it will be around 221 tonnes. - [Sam] Very light. - But we can lift 11, which is the maximum take-off weight of this aircraft. - [Sam] Very, very light, yeah. - We wanna be light. Thank you, Captain, congratulations again. - [Captain] Thank you. (bright music) - Sam, this is your mimosa. - [Sam] Thank you very much. - [Attendant] Towels, for your health and comforts. This is your amenity case. - [Sam] This amenity case is really cute, 350-1000. (bright music) (whirring) - [Sam] Let's have a tour of this beautiful aeroplane. In business class on the A350-1000 Series Qatar Airways fit 46 private Q Suites. As you can see, it is very wide with one, two, one configuration. Let me give you a hint, all the suites on both sides of the aisle have both window and aisle access. These are A, B, J, and K suites. What I like about Qsuites is the flexibility. You can have a single suite on the window side. You can form a double suite in the middle, and a quad suite if you're travelling together. The suites are so wide, there's an ottoman next to your seats that can serve either as an armrest, storage, or as a buddy seat. I love the privacy the suites created to have your own peace and private world on a commercial plane. I didn't feel claustrophobic at all. There are 281 economy class seats onboard the Qatar Airways A350-1000, the seating, as you can see, is in a three, three, and three configuration in a row. The seat's width is one more inch than a 10 seats abreast configuration on the triple seven, so that makes the A350-1000 a winner in terms of comfort. I think it makes a big difference on the long-haul flights. As you expected, each seat are featured with a large seat-back entertainment screen, USB port, power port, and an NFC reader. (bright music) (whirring) (radio transmission mumbling) - A special gift for his Excellency, Mr. Akbar Al Baker, CEO of Qatar Airways. Congratulations, sir, today. - Thank you. - Thank you so much. What would you say about the Qsuites? What would you say about Qatar Airways business class? What Qatar Airways has to offer that is different to other airlines? - First and foremost, there is no airline in the world that gives you a private cabin in a business class. I don't think there is any airline that gives you these amenities and comforts that is surrounding this cabin. I don't think there is any airline in the world that gets into such detail that it provides for every single need a passenger wants in its surrounding, and this is why we are, with confidence, claiming that we are providing a first-class experience in a business-class fare. This is why the tagline is First in Business. - Just between you and me because I know you are into aviation, I am into aviation, out of all the fleets Qatar Airways has, from A3-19, A3-20, A3-21, 330, 346-100, 350, 900, and now dash 1000, and the 380, and Boeing triple seven, what is your favourite type of aeroplane in Qatari Airways fleet? If you only can name one. - I can't name one because, for me, every single aeroplane of Qatar Airways is the best aeroplane in my vocabulary. - I want to show you this because I'm a content creator, yesterday, I've created a beautiful content because your crew are very, very helpful. - Welcome - Onboard - Our - 350 - Dash - 1000 - Aeroplane. - Hopefully, they don't say Qatar Air because I'm not sponsored by Qatar Airways. Hopefully, they don't come and tell me something. - They don't care, as long as you know what you're doing. - Oh, I'm enjoying it, I'm telling you, sitting here is just a huge honour. (bright music) - I don't need an introduction. This is The Point Guy, this is Brian. As you all know, Brian, is very, very, very tall, and he has failed many of those shower tests across the world. - I haven't failed the shower. - What we are going to do is we are going to test the Qatar Airways economy class. - Economy? - Economy. - No! - Yes. This is Fabio. - Hi. - This is Fabio's time, sorry. - Fabio is a Brazilian frequent flyer, a blogger. Okay, let's see, you guys pick a seat, and you're not allowed to pick the first row. You're not allowed to pick the bulkhead here. - Can I get my own row? - All right. - My credibility's-- - Yeah, exactly. - Economy's not so bad, I've been missing out on this the whole time. - We're celebrating the new economy class on the Qatar 350-1000. - Sam, when was the last long-haul, over six-hours flight you took in economy. - Oh my gosh, (laughing) oh my gosh, I'm so shameful. - Let's share our secrets. - In terms of dining, Qatar Airways offers on-demand dining at any time during the flight you like. What's unique to the Qsuites is this special platter. You can choose from the snack menu to create your own platter to nibble on. This is unique and special only on the Qsuites flights. (Attendant mumbles) In the Qsuites, there is only one section, you can find a buddy to sit together, like I'm very grateful now, next to me, is Mr. Ali Al Saadi, and he's from Qatari, and, he's actually the hero behind the Qatari Airways' successful A350 Programme. How many years it took you guys to develop the A350-900 and 1000, as your inaugural customers, you are involving in every aspect of the planning? - Actually, it take actually around five years from start to delivery. - Five years of work? - Yes. - Just to get his delivered? - Yes. - Thank you so much. Congratulation, sir. - Thank you. - Can you say now, tonight, you can go home and sleep well tonight? - Yeah, actually, I love that this flight, I think that it's a successful delivery and its achievement, it's a historical moment for Airbus and Qatari Airways as well as customers, and a historical moment for aviation industry. - Absolutely, so once again, we're making history here. Congratulations to Mr. Ali and Qatar Airways. - This beautiful lady here is Ms. Salam Al Shawa. Today's she demonstrating us the ORYX One. - [Salam] The easiest in-flight entertainment system. In the sky, it is meant to be very modern, very simple. - [Sam] ORYX One. - [Salom] We call it ORYX One, the inspiration of ORYX One, we wanted it to be number one in the world. It's never been easier before, you have 4000 choices. If you click entertainment, very simple, movies, TV, audio, and of course, there's a special section for kids. When you go to movies, you have Hollywood, Arabic, Bollywood. We pick our participants for the movies coming soon. For Hollywood, it's very easy, you know inspiration was like from the iPhone. - [Sam] Let me play with this 'cause I'm the aviation geek, Salom, as you know. All the AV geeks would be into this one here, the A350 camera view. - Yes. - [Sam] Let's go. (Bright music) - Guys, I just finished my meal, and as you can see, I ate everything except that, but this time was better than last time. Last time, I didn't eat any vegetables. This time I ate about two pieces of asparagus, and I still ate a carrot stick here. I think the beautiful thing about this meal, Qatar, the snack platter is, it really gives you a good flavour, you can have a bit of everything. I've got the chicken satay, I've got shrimp. I've got the salmon, it's a variety of things. It's not just one main course you can have. It's about six little items that fills you up, and you can have a bit of everything, variety. - Hi Mr. Chui, would you like to try afternoon tea set. - Wow, afternoon tea set, oh, look at that, beautifully presented. I just ate my meal, I'm pretty full. Look at my belly here, so I'll take your offer later. I'm in the bathroom of the A350-1000 Series. I'm actually very privileged, I almost think I'm one of the first, if not I'm the first people to use the brand new A350-1000 bathroom. I want to show you the toilet here. If I press this, it's going, it's flushing by itself. So, I'm on a tour of the A350-1000 Series. Right now, I'm in the rear galley, which is the biggest galley I've seen. - Sam, let me show you a crew bunk in our A350-1000. - Sure, love to see it. - [Attendant] Please. - Oh, this is a secret passage, let me go up. (Attendant laughs) - [Attendant] Be careful. We have eight crew bunks. - So, there's eight crew bunks in here? - Yes. - That's big, that's huge. Guys, beside the business side comfort, this is a secret. The crew also have a flat bed for them to rest. Of course, the work very hard and different clock hours, different time zones for their body clock, so now, let me show you. I'm gonna have a rest, okay see you. Here's my friend, Alena. - Hello. - I met her onboard, she says she's a follower. I don't believe her, okay. - I'm actually a fan of you. - Scary. - My phone. - You lost your phone. Went all the way in, where's your phone, can you open it? - Oh, it's here. - There's a cover to save the phone. - It's amazing. - Good, very good. - [Alena] Delicious. - Not very often you have a beautiful economy class like this, and it's all empty, no passenger whatsoever. Love this pillow, the sky is a wonderful place, good night. Because my door here is locked, it doesn't move. It doesn't give me the privacy again. What happened, did I break the door? - Mr. Sam, because we have a special way, or a special trick to open this door, we have to unlock it first using this key. - Oh, you have a key here? - By pressing, yes, and sliding this one. - Then, there's a lock button to press? - Yes. - Oh. That lobster mac and cheese was unbelievable. It didn't feel like aeroplane food, that was French home-made restaurant cuisine. (light airy music) (whirring) - [Sam] Each airline has their own identity. To me Qatar Airlines provided me a superior level of customer service that is focused on the passenger. There's only one inaugural flight on each type, and this one was truly amazing in every way. During the spectacular low-flight pass and go-around, it reminded me why I love aviation so much. I have totally emersed myself into it. Congratulations to Airbus an Qatar Airways, and thank you, again, for watching. 