 At the keynote at the UX conference in Last Vegas, an attendee asked Jakob Nielsen how today's UX designs might be perceived in the future. Yeah, I think that probably if we hypothetically think about what speech people might be giving in fourteen years they will probably consider going back to look at today's products and say that they were terrible. I mean it's the same and that is true for many other fields though. If you think about medicine when they used to draw blood as the way to cure people. Surgeons wouldn't wash their hands when they would move from treating a dying patient to treating a new patient, so they would infect the new patient and make it worse. That's how medicine used to be. On the other hand, if you think about how hospitals are run today compared to how hopefully it will be in 50 years, doctors in 50 years will probably say "Man, these butchers in 2018 made all of these mistakes!" That's how it is with progress. I definitely really think that user experience will be vastly better in the future. I completely think so, and therefore if people think back to today's world they will think that it's terrible. And it is really terrible! I showed you the statistics of these really hyped up, leading products with artificial intelligence and how little people can actually use them. It is a disgrace. But even if you think about well-established processes that we know how to use, like checkout from an e-commerce site, there's still a lot of errors happening and there are still a lot of cases where people go to a site and can't use it. There's a lot of those cases as well. Today's user experience is really only good compared to what we used to have. Compared to what we will have, we're suffering today! We're just not suffering as much as we used to. So progress is now happening but we're only half-way on the progress curve. Actually, I don't think we're only half-way there. If we really think about the potential for technology to help people, be designed for humans, and operate the way that will make a broad population capable of mastering technology, if we were even 10% there I'm not even sure. I think that there's a really vast potential for improvement ahead of us. But, I should end on a positive note rather than a negative note. Because the flip-side of saying that we're only 10% there is to say that us old-timers who have already been there, we have made the progress from 1% potential back in the day to 10% there. And you guys, you can now have the next 90% worth of improvement that is going to happen. And I really do think that it will happen. I think that us user experience people are really the ones that will bring the future into being and will make the world -- whether you're talking about the world economy, or the experience of the general population, being less oppressed by technology -- all of these things, we are the ones who are actually going to be driving a lot of that future. In the past, other disciplines have done great work. Steam engineers who invented the steam engine -- that was great work. Nice! Locomotive engineers who got the railroads going. All of those people have done their part in making the world get better and better every century. The next century is our century! 