 Where is AEC industry technology going? Hey, guys, Alex Moen here with today's Biz Tech Tips and we'll focus specifically on those of you that are in the architect, engineer and construction fields. KPMG actually released a study showing that if current technology were adopted more quickly, there's about 30 to 40 room for improvement on the average firm there, particularly in the areas of managed time, managed materials, or better managing and coordinating operations. Some other things aside from that to look into if you haven't already, BIM systems are really big, particularly because it's not just modeling or 3D modeling- like AutoCAD- it's creating materials lists, there's clash detection, and all these other features that are becoming more and more available for smaller firms. And, also, integrations in terms of projects or project management, materials, expense, times payroll, your CRM; all those integrations are starting to become heavy hitters as well. Things like sensors and AI applications, computer vision, augmented reality all of that's around the corner, or maybe even doable for the larger firms, but until you have kind of the low hanging fruit I just mentioned there, don't worry about that just yet. The ROI is not quite there. McKinsey did also do a study, and it found that the AEC industry has actually been the slowest of all industries to adopt technology. But in the last decade, it's actually doubled, so it is starting to rise up quite a bit there. So here's a visual map for some of the AEC industry valuable use cases that have been found and are having returns on investments there for certain firms. Not all of these might apply to your particular firm, but you can see the bigger the circle, the more use cases there are, and the more valuable and heavy hitting it was. And all those lines in between are different integrations that are happening as well. So, as you can see, there are lots of big moves, lots of positive use cases. What are you using now? What did you learn from this video? Would love to hear from you guys in the comments section. But, until next time, have a good one, everyone. 