 Hey! Reena. What’s the problem? Hey! Well, artificial intelligence is helping to make all sorts of decisions that really impact our lives — but we don't always understand how it's doing it. I want to demystify AI through design. Design... like graphic design? No, a lot of people think that. As designers at IBM, we help make technology more user friendly, user centered. How does that demystify AI? Well, I do it by making data easier to visualize. For example? Well, here, let me show you. AI is based on complex data sets like this one. So, with augmented and virtual reality, AI researchers can physically walk around their data and get a better understanding of how and why an AI model works. Wow, interesting! Gives you a whole new perspective. What else can you do with AR and VR? A lot of big things and a lot of simple things, too. For instance, what if you could use your phone to see where the Wi-Fi connection is strongest? Yeah, I can think of a few times that would have come in handy. Exactly. What’s the hardest part about solving problems? There's a lot of failure in the innovation process. You have to be okay with it and work past the frustration. Perfect day at IBM? A mix of talking to users, learning something new about their challenges and hands-on creativity for exploring new design ideas. That looks like fun. It is. But you have to come up with a lot of ideas to land on a good one. Most of these end up on the cutting room floor. What drives problem solvers? A desire to have an impact on the world and endless curiosity to get to the bottom of an issue. Anything you still want to explore? I’d love to explore how we might merge mixed reality with quantum computing. Any hobbies? Reading. What do you like to read? Usually science fiction — I find it interesting because it helps me think about new ways of using emerging technologies. Final question: What do you think the future of AR and VR have in store for us? I think it’ll help us interact with information in a more intuitive way. But the specifics are really impossible to predict — and that's actually what makes it so exciting. It’ll help us solve problems in ways we can’t even imagine yet. 