 Hey everybody, it's Lowell and welcome back to another Augment3d Feature of the Week Video. In this video we're going to take a look at exporting an Augment3d show file from Vectorworks, to bring all of your fixtures from your Vectorworks show show file into Augment3d. So let's first jump over into Vectorworks and take a look. Now I've got a number of fixtures here and they are all in 3D positions. Now if I select one of these devices you'll see that I have channel, address and universe information for each of these fixtures, and that's going to come over into our EOS show file as well. I'm going to now go to the new plug-in tool that we'll make available for Vectorworks. and that is Spotlight, Export to ETC Augment3d. That's going to save an Augment3d file that I can now jump over into EOS and work with. So we're gonna go to our browser go to Import and Augment3d and select our file, and this is going to bring up some import options for us. Now the first thing we need to do here is map the devices that are coming from Vectorworks, to EOS fixture types. So I'm going select this map devices option. It's going to list all the devices it's detected, and we're going to choose them. So I can come in, I've got a Source Four here, we'll just say that's a dimmer. I'll come over to Generic, select an 8-bit dimmer, and link that device type. Now I'll select the SolaFrame Theater, come back over, find SolaFrame Theater, High End Systems, SolaFrame Theater and link that device. When I'm done linking all of my different device types, I can hit Done and OK and that's going to merge my show in. Now notice right off the bat here all of my fixtures. If I go into Patch, they're going to come in with their patch values that came from Vectorworks. And now when I go into augment3d, those fixtures are now in there in their XYZ locations, ready for me to select, turn on and start working with. We'll cover importing scenic objects from Vectorworks in another video, but this is how we're going to import Vectorworks fixtures into your Augment3d show file. Thanks for watching and be sure to check out more Augment3d Feature of the Week videos. 