 ANYONE CAN BE AN ARTIST! [CUPIXEL!] Almost including me, want to draw or paint a sort of artistic works, but do not know where to start from. For me, whenever I sit in front of the white canvas, It is really hard to draw a first-line, even a point! But we do not want to just paint on the canvas already rough sketched. So does the Elad Katav who founded the CUPIXEL! While on vacation four years ago, Elad Katav decided to try to teach himself a new skill: PAINTING. Elad, who previously served as COO of a software company, had little artistic experience and thought it would be a good chance to clear his mind and do something creative. He watched some tutorials on YouTube, picked up some supplies at a local crafts store, and sat down with a photo of his 5-year old son to try to paint a portrait. A few days later, the canvas (which was half-completed) sat at the bottom of a trash bin. An experience that Katav had hoped would be therapeutic instead brought a lot of frustration. Elad Katav said that "Art creation has so many benefits," he says. "It relaxes the body. it relaxes the mind. it gives you an opportunity to be creative!" "Yet, it felt like this process was closed off to people like me." So, in 2016, Elad Katav started up an art company CUPIXEL. After two years of developing the AR tech, he launched the product at CES this January. Cupixel says to us that "No artistic talents are needed! Here are the easiest steps to become an artist!" step1) Order a Cupixel Art Box. It has literally "Everything" you need. step2) Choose a personal photo or an image from the gallery step3) Use the interactive guide to sketch on a real canvas step4) Pick a coloring style to paint. It's time to be proud! Even the INC. applauded Cupixel in this way. "With a $70 Kit, The Startup Promises to Turn anyone into an Artist." Then let's take a look at one by one. 1. CUPIXEL ART KIT! Their art kit includes everything you need. Canvases, two different types of pencils, color paint, two palettes brushes, a and a hand-painted nine-by-nine-inch piece of artwork, aside from a smartphone or tablet. Basically, they include 3 spare mini canvas in case you make mistakes, and you can also refill the mini canvases which charge $25 for a dozen. But why they gave us the mini-fragmented canvases? As I already commented on the very first of this video, for beginners like me, it is hard to fill up the big-sized canvas at once. So, by finishing one mini canvas one by one, we can feel the achievement. And further, you can start with the easy parts and take a rest because it is really small. #2. YOU CAN DRAW ANYTHING! When you download the application, there are hundreds of pictures that you can draw. Starting from the works of Henri Matisse, Piet Mondrian to Portraits of Audrey Hepburn, Freddie Mercury, and Steve Jobs. These days, Cupixel has dealt with more than 20 artists to include their work in its database. An artist receives a royalty each time his or her work is selected to be painted by the users. And also, users can draw the picture they want. If you import your personal picture on the app, they automatically convert that photo into the 9 small-sized grids. #3. ART FUSE WITH A.R. From this moment, the magical fusion of art and AR technology starts. In the Cupixel kit, they enveloped with device stand and canvas pad. After launching the app, When you maneuvered the angle of the device stand and projected the canvas using a smartphone camera, the rough sketch projected on the canvas. You start by choosing a work from Cupixel's online gallery or by uploading your own photo, which the software then converts into a sketchable image. On your device's screen, the image is divided into nine squares that correspond with the nine canvas tiles provided with the kit. You point your device's camera at the canvas, and on your screen, you see the image that you'll be tracing and painting. Using your pencil and brushes, you follow along with what's on the screen and AR version of paint-by-numbers. When finished, you piece the nine squares together to form one larger one. Katav says the entire experience takes under two hours for most users. In other words, your hands are on the canvas, and your eyes are on the smartphone display. And they tell you which tools you have to use. For example, when you are drawing the bold thick line, they tell you to use the 4B pencil; and when you are shading, they instruct you to use the HB pencil. And when you are painting, the application tells how much of colors should be mixed with each other for perfectly matching with that part. After following the instructions one by one, you can finally fill the entire canvas. Let's take a look at the beginners' artworks with Cupixels. After launching in January 2019, until now, they sold 15 thousand sets. And Katav said that they are on the process of finalizing deals with two of the U.S.'s biggest arts and craft retailers. They are also holding social painting events and one-day classes. At Cupixel's one-day class, we do not need to prepare the painting tools, and it only takes less than 2 hours for finishing up the entire canvas. Elad compares Cupixel to meal-in-a-box services that make cooking easier for those who lack the skills to do it all on their own. "It doesn't make you to be a professional chef," he says. "But now you can participate in a beautiful process that you otherwise might not be able to." Thank you so much for watching my video and please subscribe to my channel. And show your thumbs up! I will hop around the world and bring lots of funny stories to you guys and I will be back!!! Thank you so much and See you! Bye XD! 