 [MUSIC]  First, it's important to understand that the Met is not just a place that you visit, it's really a great service to an audience all around the world.  In February 2017, the museum made a decision to release all the images and data of a public domain networks, free of any copyright restriction. Now using AI technologies, what can people build on that? We put together teams from the Met, Microsoft, MIT and we have the Hackathon happening.  It's really an enjoyable dataset to get to play with.  Me and Mark are both interested in exploring how we could use this great dataset to explore again networks in a cool way. Again, our Generative Adversarial Network really has two parts. The generator creates new artwork and then the discriminator tries to decide whether it's a real or fake image.  The Hackathon environment is incredibly exciting. We had unlimited access to Microsoft's Compute Stack, a huge beautiful dataset, and we had a room full of passionate people willing to work together. We set off again the night before. We thought it might not learn anything by tomorrow and we were really surprised when we will come to the next day and we get to see these beautiful images that have already emerged.  We knew we had something that could be turned into something that is awesome.  Azure is unbelievably liberating as a developer, and as a huge amount of back and compute power, we leverage these large auto-scaling clusters called Kubernetes Clusters, it's part of the Azure Kubernetes Service.  We used a Microservice Architecture of deep learning algorithms, Azure services, and Blob Storage to create an application that boils down the essence of human creativity in a way that allowed users to control and explore the Met's Collection.  Out of that Hackathon, we really hit the ground running one of our AI rotational programs and the MITx turns from the garage. But a lot of energy to take the idea we a finite it, build the front end website and get it to where it is today.  I had experienced before in Machine Learning and it was very applied and technical. But on this project, seeing it used in more artistic way, got me way more excited about Machine Learning.  There is no more room for creativity and going out of the confines of whatever your day-to-day work would be.  It's really cool to work with ideas and people from different backgrounds.  I gained a lot of confidence in my ability to just pick up something.  It opened up my understanding of what maybe I would want to do in the future.  It was cool to take a step back and appreciate what we built.  One way that we preserve culture is to give people tools to create new things with it.  I hope that the work that we've created inspires others, to think about how this dataset, these technologies, open collaboration, and lead to new creative uses.  Check out our app. You can explore the entire Met's collection.  The projects all hosts on GitHub, it's open source. So, folks can take that, download it, get creative and really build on it. [MUSIC] 