 Hi, I'm Aleksi from Boogie Software. We are experts in Digital Banking. This video is a recap of a presentation that I gave in Holland Fintech meetup in Amstedam, November 2019. In this video, I will introduce you to our synthetic data solution. Without further ado, let's roll. We live in a data-driven world. Without doubt, data is the most valuable asset for many industries today. In the pursuit for novel product ideas and new revenue streams, data is a crucial enabler. But there's a catch. Behind the scenes it is not that simple to use production data for innovation and development. The production environments are heavily protected against any interference that might compromise their security or availabliity. Production data is sensitive, and can't be used as such by internal development, let alone third parties. There are business reasons, ethical reasons, and legal reasons stopping us from doing that. This is true for fintech industry in particular. Every country has their own financial authorities controlling the businesses. On top of that, we live in the Europian Union. We have all had to do our homework on GDPR and PSD2. So how do we tackle the problem? The answer is synthetic data. Synthetic data can mimic the features found in data collected from customer actions or produced by measurements. It can be produced in unconfined quantities. Unlike real data, synthetic data is anonymous and can be shared without privacy concerns. Boogie Software has developed a proprietary solution for generating synthetic data. Our solution makes use of one of the recent developments in machine learning - namely generative adversarial networks also known as GANs. A simplified description of a GAN is that it's actually two competing networks. A generator and a discriminator. The target of the generator is to produce fake samples that would pass for real. The discriminator's goal is to detect the fake samples from the real ones. Eventually, when trained, the network will together learn to produce realistic samples that resemble the training data. It can be images... or music... or like in our case, synthetic data. Boogie Software Data Synthesizer is built using industry standard data science frameworks. It's cross-platform and it can be run locally or in cloud. Our development environment is Google Cloud, and we've also done deployments on AWS. Our main development dataset is an anonymised transactional database from a Czech bank. We've also verified our solution using various non-banking datasets. The Data Synthesizer creates synthetic data that retains statistical characteristics found in the training dataset. Transaction volume, frequency and type distribution mimic the ones found in the real data. Our control tools can also verify that cross-column correlations are kept during training. We have recently finished our first deployment project for a nordic fintech industry customer. They are using the Data Synthesizer Solution to produce realistic test data for internal development and external parties. Boogie Software is a software consultancy company. It was founded in 2006 by a bunch of people who shared the passion for solving complex and relevant problems with software. We have no external investors, the company is owned by the staff. Over half of the employees are also shareholders. Our headcount today is 34 people. Competence is at the core at Boogie Software. This has made it possible for us to work with industry leading brands right from the start. Our major customers today include banks, cleantech and cybersecurity companies. Our main mode of operation is consulting work. Our people typically work in senior demanding roles in software architecture, mobile and web development, backends and data analytics. We do software projects that can start from a UX study and end up in a full-blown product release in the end. On top of that, we do some in-house development on certain specific areas, like machine learning. Our cross-functional fintech AI team combines PhD level mathematics with economics and high-performance software engineering. The team is backed by our full roster of extremely competent fintech and mobile software professionals. I'm sure many of you have either received or given complaints about inferior or missing test data. An application team, a data analyst or a third party is asking for data, but you cannot give or get access just like that. Boogie Software Data Synthesizer Solution and our fintech AI team can help you to tackle this. If you got interested, get in touch in LinkedIn, drop us a line or give us a call, and let's discuss your synthetic data needs. I'm Aleksi from Boogie Software. We are experts in Digital Banking. Thank you. 