Risk Factors—Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of these and other risks facing our business.We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital markets, together with potential external funding through third party sources, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, and PayPal credit products for the foreseeable future. Depending on market conditions, we may from time to time issue debt, including in private or public offerings, to fund our operating activities, finance acquisitions, repurchase shares under our share repurchase program, or reduce our cost of capital.Cash FlowsIn March 2016, we designated $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to be used to extend credit to our European customers. In the fourth quarter of 2017, an additional amount of $700 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary was approved and designated to be used to extend credit to our U.S. consumers. We have presented changes in funds receivable and customer accounts as cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the activity underlying our customer accounts which includes purchases of investments, maturities and sales of investments and changes in funds receivable and customer accounts. We have elected to conform the prior period statement of cash flows to the current period presentation to enhance transparency and provide comparability. See “Note 1—Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on the effects of the changes on the presentation of our statement of cash flows to our previously reported consolidated statement of cash flows.52Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (In millions)Net cash provided by (used in):     Operating activities$2,531 $3,158 $2,546Investing activities(5,358) (4,999) (8,038)Financing activities4,084 2,038 4,728Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents36 — (44)Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$1,293 $197 $(808)Operating ActivitiesCash flows from operating activities includes net income adjusted for certain non-cash expenses, timing differences between expenses recognized for provision for transaction and loan losses and actual cash transaction losses incurred, and changes in other assets and liabilities. Significant non-cash expenses for the period include depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. The cash impact from actual transaction losses incurred during a period is reflected as a negative impact to changes in other assets and liabilities in cash from operating activities. The expenses recognized during the period for provision for loan losses are estimates of probable incurred losses on our consumer and merchant credit products (excluding the U.S. consumer credit portfolio from and after November 2017). Actual charge-offs of receivables related to our consumer and merchant credit products (excluding the U.S. consumer credit portfolio from and after November 2017) have no impact on cash from operating activities.We generated cash from operating activities of $2.5 billion in 2017 due primarily to operating income of approximately $2.1 billion. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation were approximately $1.5 billion during 2017. Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to the provision for transaction and loan losses were approximately $1.0 billion during 2017. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by adjustments for non-cash expenses related to deferred income taxes of approximately $1.3 billion during 2017. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in working capital primarily related to loans and interest receivable held for sale, net of $1.3 billion due to changes in the presentation of originations and collections on loans within the U.S. consumer credit portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017, which are now presented in operating activities instead of investing activities, offset by changes in other assets and liabilities of $634 million. Collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio for originations that occurred prior to November 2017 will continue to be reflected in investing activities.We generated cash from operating activities of $3.2 billion in 2016 due primarily to operating income of approximately $1.6 billion. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation (including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation) were approximately $1.1 billion during 2016. Adjustments for non-cash expenses related to the provision for transaction and loan losses were approximately $1.1 billion during 2016. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in working capital primarily related to transaction loss allowance for cash losses, net. We generated cash from operating activities of $2.5 billion in 2015 due primarily to operating income of approximately $1.5 billion. Adjustments for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation (including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation) were approximately $928 million during 2015. Adjustments to non-cash expenses related to transaction and loan losses were approximately $809 million during 2015. The cash generated from operating activities was negatively impacted by changes in working capital primarily related to actual transaction losses paid during the period. Additional uses of cash impacting cash generated from operating activities include net cash outflows relating to settlement of eBay payables and receivables of approximately $96 million and increases in accounts receivable of approximately $22 million.Cash paid for income taxes in 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $117 million, $48 million and $216 million, respectively.Investing ActivitiesCash flows from investing activities includes purchases, maturities and sales of investments, cash paid for acquisitions, purchases and sales of property and equipment, changes in principal loans receivable, funds receivable and customer accounts. For periods prior to the distribution, it also includes notes payable and receivable from eBay.The net cash used in investing activities of $5.4 billion in 2017 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $19.4 billion, increase in funds receivable and customer accounts of $2.5 billion including the reclassification of $700 million of European 53Table of Contentscustomer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary as cash and cash equivalents, changes in principal loans receivable portfolio (net of collections) originated through our consumer and merchant credit products excluding originations and collections pertaining to the U.S. consumer credit portfolio from and after November 2017 which are now presented in operating activities, of $920 million, acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $323 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $667 million. These net cash outflows were offset by maturities and sales of investments of $18.5 billion. Collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio for originations that occurred prior to November 2017 will continue to be reflected in investing activities.The net cash used in investing activities of $5.0 billion in 2016 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $21.0 billion, increases in our loan receivable portfolio (net of collections) originated through our PayPal credit products of $1.5 billion, purchases of property and equipment of $669 million and net increases in funds receivable from customers and customer accounts of $176 million, including the reclassification of $800 million of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary as cash and cash equivalents. These net cash outflows were offset by maturities and sales of investments of $18.4 billion. The net cash used in investing activities of $8.0 billion in 2015 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $21.6 billion, acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $1.2 billion, increases in our loan receivable portfolio (net of collections) originated through our PayPal credit products of $819 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $722 million. These net cash outflows were offset in part by maturities and sales of investments of $16.1 billion and net cash inflows relating to receivables from eBay of $575 million. Financing ActivitiesCash flows from financing activities includes proceeds from issuance of common stock, purchases of treasury stock, tax withholdings related to net share settlements of equity awards, borrowings net of repayments under financing arrangements, funds payable and amounts due to customers, and excess tax benefits from stock based compensation (for periods prior to 2017). For periods prior to the distribution, it also includes contribution from eBay.The net cash provided by financing activities of $4.1 billion in 2017 was due primarily to increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $4.3 billion and borrowings of $1.0 billion, partially offset by repayment of a loan of $170 million assumed in connection with our acquisition of Swift Financial, the repurchase of $1.0 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $166 million. The net cash provided by financing activities of $2.0 billion in 2016 was due primarily to increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $3.0 billion, offset in part by the repurchase of $995 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program.The net cash provided by financing activities of $4.7 billion in 2015 was due primarily to a contribution of approximately $3.9 billion of cash from eBay and increases in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $1.6 billion, offset in part by repayments of borrowings from eBay of $862 million.Free Cash FlowWe define free cash flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. Free cash flow was $1.9 billion in 2017, a decrease of $625 million from 2016. The decrease in free cash flow during the period was primarily due to lower cash generated from operating activities of $627 million, which was impacted by the change in presentation from investing activities to operating activities of originations and collections on the U.S. consumer credit portfolio subsequent to its designation as held for sale in November 2017. Free cash flow generated during 2017 was used for repurchasing our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, funding our credit portfolio, acquisitions and general business purposes. Free cash flow was $2.5 billion in 2016, an increase of $665 million from 2015. The increase in free cash flow during the period was primarily due to higher cash generated from operating activities of $612 million and lower purchases of property and equipment of $53 million. Free cash flow generated during 2016 was used for funding our credit portfolio, repurchasing our common stock under our stock repurchase program, and general business purposes.Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Non-GAAP Financial Information” for information on how we compute free cash flow and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 54Table of ContentsEffect of Exchange Rates on CashThe positive effect of currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents during 2017 of $36 million was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on cash and cash equivalents in 2016. The negative effect of currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents during 2015 of $44 million was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsAs of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.Future Liquidity and ObligationsAs of December 31, 2017, approximately $26.4 billion of unused credit was available to PayPal Credit account holders compared to $28.8 billion of unused credit as of December 31, 2016. While this amount represents the total unused credit available, we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, that all of our PayPal Credit account holders will access their entire available credit at any given point in time. In addition, the individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination by the chartered financial institution that is the issuer of our U.S. PayPal Credit consumer products based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. When a consumer funds a purchase in the U.S. using a PayPal credit product issued by a chartered financial institution, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of such purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable (excluding participation interests sold) and are responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. Upon the closing of the sale of our loans and interest receivables, held for sale, which is expected to occur in the third quarter of 2018, we will no longer purchase receivables related to the U.S. consumer loans extended by the chartered financial institution.We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following table summarizes our obligations as of December 31, 2017 that are expected to impact liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We believe we will be able to fund these obligations through our existing cash and investment portfolio and cash expected to be generated from operations.  PurchaseObligations OperatingLeases Transition Tax TotalPayments Due During the Year Ending December 31,(In millions)2018$287 $119 $— $4062019137 112 127 376202065 82 117 26420214 62 117 18320223 50 117 170Thereafter19 130 990 1,139 $515 $555 $1,468 $2,538The significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the above table are as follows:•Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (computer equipment, software applications, engineering development services and construction contracts) and other goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business.•Operating lease amounts include minimum rental payments under our non-cancelable operating leases for office and data center facilities. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly 55Table of Contentsfrom actual results under our existing leases, unless a substantial change in our headcount needs requires us to expand our occupied space or exit an office facility early.•Transition Tax represents the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings under the Tax Act, as further discussed in “Note 17—Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, net, the table above does not include $383 million of such non-current liabilities included in deferred and other tax liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017.SeasonalityThe Company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. No individual quarter in 2017, 2016 or 2015 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe application of U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial condition. We have established detailed policies and control procedures to provide reasonable assurance that the methods used to make estimates and assumptions are well controlled and are applied consistently from period to period. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to our financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to our financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. Our significant accounting policies, including recent accounting pronouncements, are described in “Note 1—Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated annual financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity are included to allow users of this report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management’s predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.Transaction and loan lossesTransaction and loan losses include the expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud, chargebacks, and credit losses associated with our loans receivable balances. Our transaction and loan losses fluctuate depending on many factors, including: total TPV, macroeconomic conditions, changes to our customer protection programs, the impact of regulatory changes, and the credit quality of loans receivable arising from transactions funded with our PayPal credit products, which include our PayPal Credit consumer product and merchant loans and advances consisting of PayPal Working Capital and Swift business loans and advances to merchant sellers.We establish allowances for estimated transaction losses arising from processing customer transactions, such as chargebacks for unauthorized credit card use and merchant-related chargebacks due to non-delivery of goods or services, ACH returns, buyer protection program claims, account takeovers, and account overdrafts. Additions to the allowance, in the form of provisions, are reflected in transaction and loan losses in our consolidated statements of income. The allowances are monitored regularly and are updated based on actual claims data reported by our claims processors and other actual data received. The allowances are based on known facts and circumstances, internal factors including experience with similar cases, historical trends involving loss payment patterns, and the mix of transaction and loss types.We also establish an allowance for loans receivable, which represents our estimate of probable incurred loan losses inherent in our consumer loans receivable and merchant loans and advances. Increases to the allowance for loans receivable are reflected as transaction and loan losses in our consolidated financial statements. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. In connection with the pending sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio to Synchrony Bank, and the designation of that portfolio as held for sale in November 2017, we released corresponding allowances against those loans and interest receivable balances. Such allowances on any newly originated U.S. consumer loan receivables from and after November 56Table of Contents2017 will not be established. Adjustments to the cost basis of this portfolio, which are primarily driven by charge offs, are recorded in restructuring and other charges in our consolidated statement of income. For our consumer loan receivables not subject to the sale agreement with Synchrony Bank, consisting primarily of our international consumer receivables, the allowance is primarily based on forecasted principal balance delinquency rates (“roll rates”). Roll rates are the percentage of balances which we estimate will migrate from one stage of delinquency to the next based on our historical experience, as well as external factors such as estimated bankruptcies and levels of unemployment. Roll rates are applied to the principal amount of our international consumer receivables for each stage of delinquency, from current to 180 days past the payment due date, in order to estimate the principal loans which have incurred losses and are probable to be charged off. For merchant loans and advances receivable, that includes PayPal Working Capital and Swift business loan and advance products, the allowance is primarily based on principal balances, forecasted delinquency rates and recoveries through the use of a vintage-based loss forecasting model.The determination of delinquency, from current to 180 days past due, for principal balances related to merchant loans and advances is based on the current expected repayment period of the loan or advance and interest or fixed fee as compared to the original expected repayment period. For PayPal Working Capital product we calculate the repayment rate based on the merchant's expected future payment volume such that repayment of the advance and fixed fee is typically expected to occur within 9 to 12 months from the date of the loan or advance. On a regular basis, we recalculate the repayment period based on the actual repayment activity on the receivable. As such, actual repayment periods are dependent on actual payment processing volumes. The allowance for loss against the interest receivable is primarily determined by applying historical average customer account roll rates to the interest receivable balance in each stage of delinquency to project the value of accounts that have incurred losses and are probable to be charged off. The allowance for fees receivable is primarily based on fee balances, forecasted delinquency rates and recoveries through the use of a vintage-based loss forecasting model. Increases to the allowance for fees receivable is recognized as a reduction in deferred revenues included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.We charge off consumer loan receivable balances in the month in which a customer balance becomes 180 days past the payment due date. We charge off the PayPal Working Capital receivable when the updated repayment period is 180 days past the original expected repayment period and the merchant has not made a payment in the last 60 days. We also charge off the receivable when the updated repayment period is 360 days past the original expected repayment period regardless of whether or not the merchant has made a payment within the last 60 days. Bankrupt accounts are charged off within 60 days of receiving notification of bankruptcy. Loans receivable past the payment due date continue to accrue interest until such time as they are charged off, with the portion of the reserve related to the interest receivable balance classified as a reduction of revenue for international consumers and recorded in restructuring and other charges for the U.S. consumer receivables, in our consolidated statement of income. For Swift business loan and advance products, we charge off the receivable when the repayments are 180 days past our expectation of repayments. Bankrupt accounts are charged off within 60 days of receiving notification of bankruptcy. The provision for loan losses is recognized in transaction and loan losses. Charge-offs that are recovered are recorded as a reduction to our allowance for loans and interest receivable. Determining appropriate allowances for these losses is an inherently uncertain process and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our allowance estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may impact the settlement or recovery of losses. The allowances are maintained at a level we deem appropriate to adequately provide for losses incurred at the balance sheet date. Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2017, an aggregate ten percent increase in our transaction and loan loss rate would negatively impact transaction and loan losses by approximately $101 million.Accounting for Income Taxes Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rates that apply to our foreign earnings. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, our income tax rate depends on the extent that our foreign earnings are taxed by the U.S. through new provisions under the Tax Act such as the new GILTI tax and BEAT or as a result of our indefinite reinvestment assertion. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment about and intentions concerning our future operations. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates that are based on a 57Table of Contentsnumber of factors, including our historical experience and short range and long-range business forecasts. To the extent deferred tax assets are not expected to be realized, we record a valuation allowance.We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, pursuant to which we only recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. GAAP further requires that a change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions be recognized in earnings in the quarter in which such change occurs. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.We file annual income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited by the relevant tax authorities and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes are adequate such that we reflect the benefits more likely than not to be sustained in an examination. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, where appropriate in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash.Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2017, a one-percentage point increase in our effective tax rate would have resulted in an increase in our income tax expense of approximately $22 million.Loss ContingenciesWe are currently involved in various claims, legal proceedings and investigations of potential operating violations by regulatory oversight authorities. We regularly review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim, legal proceeding or potential regulatory violation is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our judgments are subjective based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses and consultation with in-house and outside legal counsel. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims, litigation or other violation and may revise our estimates. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory process in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our judgments may be materially different than the actual outcomes.Revenue RecognitionApplication of the various accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Specifically, the determination of whether we are a principal to a transaction (gross revenue) or an agent (net revenue) can require considerable judgment. Further, we provide incentive payments to consumers and merchants, which require judgment to determine whether the payments should be recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the amount of revenue recognized. Valuation of Goodwill and IntangiblesThe valuation of assets acquired in a business combination and asset impairment reviews require the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in an acquired business to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management’s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.We evaluate