Business—Government Regulation” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business is also subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, those governing banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, banking secrecy, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. The legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations.Financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on the payments industry, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our business. Our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and tighter enforcement of rules and regulations that may apply to our business.As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of 18Table of Contentsgoods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. Laws regulating the Internet, mobile and related technologies outside of the U.S. often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. For example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) or U.S. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations.Any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws and regulations), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; restrict our operations; force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes or delay planned product launches or improvements. The foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, expose us to significant liability, impose significant costs, require us to expend substantial resources, increase the cost and complexity of compliance, damage our brands and business, make our products and services less attractive, result in the loss of customers, limit our ability to grow the business, adversely affect our results of operations, and harm our reputation. The complexity of U.S. federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations.Payments RegulationIn the U.S., PayPal, Inc. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where it is required, as well as in the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. These licenses include not only the PayPal branded products and services in these states, but also our Venmo and Xoom branded products and services. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions with respect to the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. Accordingly, if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose substantial costs.While we currently allow our customers with credit cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the U.S.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect our ability to grow our business in these markets. Of the markets whose residents can use our PayPal services, almost 30 of them are in member states of the EU. We provide our services to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg. Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money-laundering, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. In addition, EU laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the EU, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. Moreover, the countries that are members of the EU may each have different and potentially inconsistent interpretations of regulations implementing the EU Payment Services Directive and the E-Money Directive, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. The Revised Payment Services Directive (“PSD2”) entered into force in January 2016 and will need to be implemented into national legislation by January 2018. The implementation of the PSD2 may negatively affect our business. Finally, if PayPal (Europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the European Central Bank (“ECB”) determines that PayPal (Europe) is a significant supervised entity or that some activity of PayPal (Europe) is subject to oversight by the ECB, PayPal (Europe) or certain of its activities could become directly regulated by the ECB in addition to the Luxembourg regulator, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, as its national supervisor, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs.In Australia, we serve our customers through PayPal Australia Pty. Ltd. (“PayPal Australia”), which is licensed by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission as a provider of a non-cash payment product and by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. Accordingly, PayPal Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capital requirements, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian depository institutions.19Table of ContentsIn many of the other markets in which we do business, we serve our customers through PayPal Pte. Ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary that is based in Singapore. PayPal Pte. Ltd. is supervised by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and is designated as a holder of a stored value facility and does not hold a remittance license. As a result, PayPal Pte. Ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments (including donations to charities) from Singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services in Singapore. In many of the markets (other than Singapore) served by PayPal Pte. Ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our Singapore-based service is subject only to Singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution or otherwise.We are also subject to regulation in other markets in which we do business and we have been and expect to continue to be required to apply for various licenses, certifications and regulatory approvals in a number of the countries where we provide our services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses, certifications, and approvals. Even if we were able to obtain such licenses, certifications, and approvals, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. These factors could impose substantial additional costs and involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products or services, or could require significant and costly operational changes or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market.In many other countries it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, bank, financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, we may rely on local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange transactions in local currency. Local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through local banks or otherwise prohibit us from doing business in a country. Such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs, involve considerable delay to the provision or development of our services, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market. For example, in June 2016, we suspended our operations in Turkey following cease and desist instructions from Turkey’s regulatory body, Bankacýlýk Düzenleme Ve Denetleme Kurumu (“BDDK”), following the BDDK’s rejection of our application for an e-money payments license.Consumer ProtectionThe financial services sector is subject to significant regulation and we are subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., we are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations applicable to our activities, including the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (“EFTA”) and Regulation E as implemented by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). Under such regulations we are required to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, follow specified error resolution procedures, and reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer, among other requirements. Additionally, technical violations of consumer protection laws could result in the assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties of up to $1,000 in individual cases or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action and treble damages in some instances; we could also be liable for plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees in such cases. We are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the EFTA and Regulation E or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts).In October  2016, the CFPB issued a final rule on prepaid accounts with an effective date of October 1, 2017. The rule’s definition of prepaid account includes certain loadable accounts whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, unaffiliated merchants, at ATMs and/or for person-to-person transfers, including certain digital wallets. The rule’s requirements include: the disclosure of fees and other information to the consumer prior to the creation of a prepaid account; the extension of Regulation E liability limits and error-resolution requirements to all prepaid accounts; the application of Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 credit card requirements to prepaid accounts with overdraft and credit features; and the submission of prepaid account agreements to the CFPB and their publication to the general public. We are evaluating the rule and its requirements. Implementation of the rule could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices and the design of certain products, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business.In May 2015, we entered into a Stipulated Final Judgment and Consent Order (“Consent Order”) with the CFPB in which we settled regulatory claims arising from PayPal Credit practices between 2011 and 2015. The Consent Order included obligations on PayPal to pay $15 million in redress to consumers and a $10 million civil monetary penalty, and required PayPal to make various changes to PayPal Credit disclosures and related business practices. We continue to cooperate and engage with the CFPB and work to ensure compliance with the Consent Order, which may result in us incurring additional costs.20Table of ContentsPayPal (Europe) offers its services in EU countries through a “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notification process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans to expand our business in EU countries. Economic and Trade SanctionsWe are subject to U.S. economic and trade sanctions administered by OFAC. We have self-reported to OFAC certain transactions that were inadvertently processed but subsequently identified as possible violations of U.S. economic and trade sanctions. In March 2015, we reached a settlement with OFAC regarding possible violations arising from our sanctions compliance practices between 2009 and 2013, prior to the implementation of our real-time transaction scanning program. Subsequently, we have self-reported additional transactions as possible violations, and we have received new subpoenas from OFAC seeking additional information about certain of these transactions. Such self-reported transactions could result in claims or actions against us, including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise harm our business.Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist FinancingWe are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. U.S. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. Regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. In the EU, the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and the regulation on information accompanying transfer of funds (commonly known as the Revised Wire Transfer Regulation), which both come into effect on June 26, 2017, could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. Penalties for non-compliance with the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive could include fines of up to 10% of PayPal (Europe)’s total annual turnover. The EU institutions are also proposing changes to the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive which could be even more stringent.Privacy and Protection of User DataWe are subject to a number of laws, rules and directives (which we refer to as “privacy laws”) relating to the collection, use, retention, security, processing and transfer (which we refer to as “process”) of personally identifiable information about our customers and employees (which we refer to as “personal data”) in the countries where we operate. Much of the personal data that we process, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple privacy laws and, in some cases, the privacy laws of multiple jurisdictions. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relationships.Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, collection, use and sharing of data is increasing on a global basis. There is uncertainty associated with the legal and regulatory environment around privacy and data protection laws, which continue to develop in ways we cannot predict, including with respect to evolving technologies such as cloud computing. Privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and violations of privacy and data protection-related laws can result in significant penalties and damage to our brand and business. In addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy laws may restrict our ability to provide products and services to our customers. A determination that there have been violations of privacy or data protection laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation.In October 2015, the European Court of Justice ruled that the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework clauses, one compliance method by which companies could transfer personal data regarding citizens of the EU to the U.S., could no longer be relied upon. The U.S. and EU authorities have agreed in principle on a replacement for Safe Harbor known as “Privacy Shield”. The Privacy Shield 21Table of Contentsapproach has not been fully endorsed by all relevant parties and there have already been challenges to this initiative in the European justice system. PayPal has chosen to adopt EU model clauses published by the European Commission as a basis for the export of data from the EU to the U.S. for those parts of our business that had previously relied on Safe Harbor. In addition, because PayPal (Europe) is headquartered in Luxembourg and subject to regulation as a bank in that jurisdiction, we have relied on the “one-stop-shop” concept under which Luxembourg has been our lead data protection regulator in the EU. However, a recent European Court of Justice ruling (Weltimmo) affecting companies that do business in the EU potentially could make us subject to the local data protection laws or regulatory enforcement activities of the various EU member states in which we have established legal entities and which apply privacy laws that are different than, and which may even conflict with, those in Luxembourg.In addition, because of the large number of text messages, emails, phone calls and other communications we send or make to our customers for various business purposes, communication-related privacy laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation could result in particularly significant damage awards or fines. For example, under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), in the U.S., plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. We have been, are, and may continue to be subject to lawsuits (including class-action lawsuits) containing allegations that our business violated the TCPA. These lawsuits seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. Given the large number of communications we send to our customers, a determination that there have been violations of the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business.The EU has recently adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime from the current national legislative approach to a single European Economic Area Privacy Regulation, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which comes into effect in 2018. The proposed EU data protection regime extends the scope of the EU data protection law to all foreign companies processing data of EU residents. It provides for a harmonization of the data protection regulations throughout the EU, thereby making it easier for non-European companies to comply with these regulations. It imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover and €20 million and includes new rights such as the “portability” of personal data. Although the GDPR will apply across the EU without a need for local implementing legislation, as has been the case under the current data protection regime, local data protection authorities (“DPAs”) will still have the ability to interpret the GDPR, which has the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. We are evaluating the rule and its requirements. Implementation of the GDPR could require changes to certain of our business practices, thereby increasing our costs.We post on our websites and applications our privacy policies and practices regarding the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, or privacy, data protection, information security or consumer protection-related privacy laws and regulations in one or more jurisdictions could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, and adversely affect our business. Data protection, privacy and information security have become the subject of increasing public, media and legislative concern. If our customers were to reduce their use of our products and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be materially harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security and privacy breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these privacy laws.If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses.We have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the U.S. and abroad. As part of our currency hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments with various financial institutions. Certain banks and financial institutions are also lenders under our revolving credit facility. We regularly monitor our exposure to counterparty credit risk, and actively manage this exposure to mitigate the associated risk. Despite these efforts, we may be exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default, deterioration or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty’s liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.22Table of ContentsPayPal is not a bank or licensed lender in the U.S. and relies upon third parties to make loans and provide other products critical to our business.As PayPal is neither a chartered financial institution nor licensed to make loans in any state in the U.S., we rely on a third-party chartered financial institution to issue the PayPal Credit consumer product in the U.S., and a different chartered financial institution to issue the PayPal Working Capital product in the U.S. Both of these chartered financial institutions are industrial banks chartered by the State of Utah. In the event of a termination or interruption in the ability of the chartered financial institution that currently issues the PayPal Credit consumer product in the U.S. to lend under the PayPal Credit consumer product, the chartered financial institution that issues the PayPal Working Capital product in the U.S. has agreed to take ownership of (and originate loans with respect to) all PayPal Credit consumer accounts. Nevertheless, any termination or interruption of either bank’s ability to lend could result in the inability or unwillingness to originate any new PayPal Credit or PayPal Working Capital loans. In the event of either bank’s inability or unwillingness to lend, we would either need to reach a similar agreement with another chartered financial institution or obtain our own bank charter or licenses. We may be unable to reach a similar agreement with another partner on favorable terms or at all, and obtaining a bank charter or lending licenses would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could be burdensome and increase our costs. In addition, our commercial relationships with third parties which are federally supervised U.S. financial institutions could subject us to examination by their federal banking regulators with respect to certain services that we provide.In 2015, the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals, Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC (786 F.3d 246 (2d Cir. 2015)), concluded that the buyer of a charged off credit card account could not rely on the National Bank Act's preemption of state interest rate limits for interest at rates imposed by the buyer after charge-off. A petition to the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision was denied in June 2016, and the case has been remanded to the lower court to be determined in accordance with the ruling of the Second Circuit. The decision has resulted in some uncertainty as to whether non-bank entities purchasing loans originated by a bank may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws, and may create an increased risk of litigation by plaintiffs challenging our ability to collect interest and fees in accordance with the terms of certain loans. Although the Madden decision specifically addressed preemption under the National Bank Act, this decision could support future challenges to federal preemption for other institutions, including FDIC-insured, state chartered industrial banks like those that we rely on to issue our loan products in the U.S. Although we believe the Madden case can be distinguished from the manner in which we offer our credit products, there can be no assurances as to the outcome of any potential litigation, or that the possible impact of such litigation will not have a material adverse impact on our business. Our credit products expose us to additional risks.Our PayPal Credit and PayPal Working Capital products are offered to a wide range of consumers and merchants, and the financial success of these products depends on the effective management of the risk related to these products. The lender for the PayPal Credit product extends credit using proprietary segmentation and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on their past purchasing and payment history with PayPal as well as their credit scores. Similarly, to assess a merchant who wishes to obtain a PayPal Working Capital advance, among other indicators, the lender applies a proprietary risk model to help predict the merchant's ability to repay the working capital advance. These risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to inaccurate assumptions about the particular consumer or merchant or the economic environment or limited transaction history, among other factors. The accuracy of these risk models and the ability of the lender and our ability to manage credit risk related to our PayPal Credit and PayPal Working Capital products may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes, competitors’ actions, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment and other factors.Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer and merchant credit, we face the risk that PayPal Credit and PayPal Working Capital account holders will default on their payment obligation, creating the risk of potential charge-offs. The non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or greater austerity in various countries, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. Account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans.We purchase receivables related to our PayPal Credit products, and originated loans with respect to our PayPal Working Capital Products. If we are unable to fund our purchase of these receivables adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, our business could be harmed.Our international expansion of our PayPal Credit product offerings exposes us to additional risks, including those discussed below under the risk factor titled “Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business.”23Table of ContentsOur business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions.War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to the economy and commerce on a global or regional basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our customers, and companies with which we do business. Our business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, fire, power shortage