  So, I'm delighted to chair this session, and particularly delighted because it has three of my favorite people on it. One is my colleague at the Graduate Center and close collaborationist, I guess I could say, at the Committee on Globalization and Social Change, Gary Wilder. And now, the person who actually has the office right next to me, although I'm on leave this semester so haven't been aware of it, and that is Charles Mills who is here. And it's just a terrific boon that we got him, so I'm totally delighted with that. And Bruce, we haven't gotten you yet, but you might find some glommers coming at you. Anyway, you're sitting right next to me as my neighbor here now, and an old, old friend and someone I cherish. So I will try to keep to the time limit, and guarantee you that you will not find this a boring session. So, I am going to start with Charles. I guess we're going to go the way it is right here. Charles, talking on race. OK. So let me begin with an anecdote. Can everybody hear me? Yes. OK, great. So, many years ago at a party of Tom McCarthy's before I'd moved to Northwestern, I met, for the first time, Jurgen Habermas. And I said to him, somewhat presumptuously, "Professor Habermas, you should start working on philosophy and race, because if somebody of your stature did so, it would hope to make it respectable." And he replied to me, "Young man," so you know it was a long time ago, "Young man, if in Europe, I were to declare I was going to be working on philosophy and race, everybody would conclude that I had become a Nazi." So you can see there's a certain lack of appreciation for what philosophy and race meant, so it's good to know we've progressed somewhat since then. So, Professor Balibar is somebody who had no hesitations about working on philosophy and race. And in fact, I brought-- usually I plug my own stuff at these events but a brief moment of selflessness-- Professor Balibar's book came out originally way back in 1988 in French, coauthored with Immanuel Wallerstein. They did separate chapters because they disagree on stuff, On Race, Nation, and Class. It's not going to be my primary focus, but I thought I should at least mention it because I was skimming over it and a lot of it is still very relevant. So the need to relate racism to capitalism, classes, class struggle, nationalism, a division of the working class as not secondary but structural, global division of labor, the judgment that racism is not, alas, receding but progressing, that there's no inconsistency between universalism and racism because universalism is standardly rewritten to accommodate racism, pointing out the new racism, that we're an era of decolonization. This phrase, "racism without races." Some of you may know Eduardo Banias Silva's book, Racism Without Racists, so I thought here was an interesting anticipation of it. Cultural differences versus biological, hereditary analyses, and the crucial judgment that culture can also function like a nation. Theme of hierarchy is retained in a somewhat different form. Differentiation between different varieties of racism-- they're not all the same. Link between nationalism and racism, racism as a philosophy of history, racism both as a nationalism and as a super-nationalism in the invocation of the white west; and crucial, especially in light of recent election and, as you guys know, event taking place Sunday, Austrian election, and then next year, a great choice in France between the right and the far right or the ultra-right. God, what a choice. So, all kinds of bad stuff happening. And then, in our discussion of anti-semitism, the sort of traditional link with the poor man's socialism and so forth, Jews in the [INAUDIBLE] of capital. Who would have thought all this stuff would suddenly, again, become relevant in the United States? Anyway, certainly I recommend to you. But as I say, it's not going to be my primary focus. I also want to give a brief shout out to somebody I have not seen since 1998, Peter Osborne. And the occasion was the British Radical Philosopher Association sponsoring the first ever conference in Britain on philosophy and race, for which I was a speaker. Peter and I both had more hair then, so we it's not [INAUDIBLE] the case that we really have to recognize each other, but at least there's a nameplate in front of him. So it's because of these kinds of efforts-- certainly a lot of black organizing, a lot of black conferences, but in a given sort of differential-- there are hugely differential numbers of whites in the profession. A shout out to Peter for putting on this event. As I say, way back in 1998, the first ever Philosophy and Race conference in Britain, sponsored by the British Radical Philosopher group organization. So there have been a lot of conferences since then, a lot of people organizing and doing stuff, the result being that the idea that philosophy and race is a racist subject, that's no longer a view [INAUDIBLE]. And as a sign of respectability, you know you're starting to make it when you start to get handbooks. There's going to be an Oxford Handbook on philosophy and race. It's actually already printed, [INAUDIBLE] mailed out in a month or two, edited by [INAUDIBLE]. And there's also an Oxford Handbook on philosophical methodology that came out some months ago, and I was asked to do the race chapter for it. [INAUDIBLE] the final chapter, the back of the bus, but hey, I'm glad to be on the bus at all. It's Oxford. Crucial thing. And then the past few years, at least 10 philosophy journals have had either special Henri's issues on race, or within the journal a special symposium on race, and there's a new journal from Penn State-- I can plug them-- Critical Philosophy of Race, which, like Hypatia, is focusing specifically on this topic. So various stages of progress are indicated. So what I'm going to talk about is 10 ways in which I see race as political. I'm not saying these are the only 10 ways, but I think these are 10 pretty important words. First of all, as a line of demarcation, a boundary of political exclusion and inclusion, whether because of theological, biological, or cultural reasons. Second, race as a sociopolitical construct. Things are sometimes put in the form of race being a social construct, but there's been more emphasis lately. We should see not just as a social contact, but as a socio-political construct that is both constructed and rare. Third, race has shaped the work of political theorists, arguably even in the pre-modern period, and certainly in modernity. Fourth, race related ideas as a political ideology, and arguably for some theorists. There is a well-known theorist of anti-semitism, George Mosse, wrote a book back in 1978, Towards the Final Solution. And his analysis was that we should see race as the most important ideology of modernity in so far as in a sense it's a sort of meta-ideology that shapes other ideologies. Five, race as a political identity but one that is not usually seen as such because it is not marked as an identity. It's usually simply the human, in the case of a white racial identity. And then linked to that, and of particular importance given the discussions that have taken place about what went wrong, how did Trump get elected, we need to go back to a universal politics, not this sort of identity politics, the crucial importance of recognizing that the most important variety of identity politics historically has been white, racial identity politics. White, racial identity politics has shaped the modern world, and to the extent that you have other racial identity politics, they have arisen in response to this. Six, race as sort of generating a politicized epistemology, a set of norms for cognizing the world more factually, and if you have a cognitist's view of emotions in terms of an affect and emotion. Seven, race as shaping the state. The state as racial, sort of extensive history in the Western tradition of a different kind of state, we need to recognize a state as a racial state. Eight, in opposition to orthodox Marxism, race as material, race as constituting group interests and shaping perception of other great group interests, race as ontological, power to the liberal individual. Nine, the challenge that this sort of [INAUDIBLE] poses for Marxist critical theory, maybe not in such good order these days, but hey, then again, with the reign of plutocracy. As I've been telling people, in the old days, trying to explain Marxism to your grad students, to come up with all kinds of indirect connection, hey, go into a billionaires' and all the crucial posts should be completely straightforward. Well, there's a ruling class here, and then lo and behold, they're in government. So if there are no other positive effects of the election, there are all kinds of epistemic [INAUDIBLE]. All kinds of stuff has been made transparent that previously you had to do a lot of work to uncover. And finally, ten, in terms, again, of the sort of problem that the previous list poses, the challenge that this list poses, the sort of main, mainstream branch of normative political theory, which is not, of course, critical theory but Anglo-American [INAUDIBLE] and responses to roles in critical theory. I probably won't have [INAUDIBLE] time to get through all of those, but let me sort of make an effort. OK. So, race first of all as a boundary marcator and it might seem that race is anti-political, race is nonpolitical. But of course what race is doing in these circumstances is demarcating the category of people who are themselves nonpolitical, who don't rise to the political, and that, of course, is a political demarcation in itself. In other words, this boundary setting, as with gender, as with public-private distinction, and where women are supposed to be under the family as a public sphere, these cartographies, these carving up of political space into political and nonpolitical, these distinctions are themselves crucial. So race has sort of traditionally functioned in that kind of way, among other things. So where does race come from, in terms of origins and genealogy? Two main, competing periodizations. Well, of course, race's periodizations, race is biological, so race has always been with us. But in terms of the sort of critical periodization of race. Dominant periodization, race is modern. So this is a view that develops particularly in the aftermath of the Holocaust and World War II and the rise of the anti-colonial movement. So race, we want to say, its not biological. Race is social. Then the natural question, then, is where does it enter the world? And the dominant approach is race is a product of modernity, race a product of European expansionism, race is a result of the European voyages of conquest and imperialist Midatlantic slavery and the need to demarcate populations. So that's been a dominant interpretation, and is still the one that most people would tell you is the correct one. But it's important to appreciate that it has been challenged. It's always been challenged, and in recent years the challenge has grown strong. And I wanted to direct you to the work of this guy, and it's really classicist Benjamin Isaac-- huge book-- The Invention of Racism in Classical Antiquity. And the idea is that these conventional narratives are just wrong, and that we really have to go back to ancient Athens. And if we do so, in Isaac's opinion, we'll find that the pioneering racist theorist of the Western world is Aristotle, insofar as he has a category of natural slave, and the category of natural slave is ethnically marked. In other words, it's not that clear, let's say, in the politics, but in other writings, it comes pretty clear-- it's basically the Persians who are natural slaves. So the people who are slaves just because they are captured, those noble Athenians, but they always escape and do good stuff and fight for their freedom, as against natural slaves and those are the Persians. And there's a later conference volume, the [INAUDIBLE] universe of Tel Aviv with like-minded folks. You get a conference volume, The Origins of Racism in the West, and their take in this line as well. So the point, then, is that you have this analysis, and this analysis would then mean that race and racism are much older in the Western tradition than normally thought and that they go back to antiquity. And in Isaac's opinion, this, then, means that you're getting Western political philosophy shaped by racism from the start, not only the form of Aristotle, but in terms of Cicero, in terms of other theorists of ancient world and so forth. OK, so there's that sort of element, but there's also the Medieval contribution. And what I'm talking about here are inherited the monstrous races of Christendom. And again, the original thought was that these creatures are so utterly different from modern conceptions of race that there's sort of a clear, conceptual divide between them and modern race. And there's a growing body of work arguing that this is not the case, and there's this great book, which it would be great if I could find the title. Saracens, Demons and Jews I think is the title. So the idea is you have all these weird creatures. They're giants, they're people with just one leg, people with their faces on their chest, they're Amazons. So they're real bizarre creatures, and then among them, you also have human beings that [INAUDIBLE]. And the four categories demarcated are Jews, Mongols, Muslims-- called, of course, Saracens, and Ethiopians, where Ethiopia is not referring to just one country but Africa as a whole. So this author, whose name I'm blacking on, alas, basically argues that we need to recognize the continuity between modern conceptions of race and this legacy that is inherited. So from the ancient world, we have Aristotle and natural slaves. From the Medieval period, we have the monstrous races that when Columbus goes out into the world then encounters Amerindian people, he has this as part of the heritage he's bringing to it. And in fact, in one of the great early moments of racist history, the debate at Valladolid between las Casas and Sepulveda about whether or not Amerindians are human, Sepulveda, the racist theorist, is basically saying, these are the natural slaves of which Aristotle spoke. So you have a combination from antiquity and the pagan world of the [INAUDIBLE] the natural slave, and then from the Christian world, sort of the post-Pagan world, you have this category of these people who are theologically doomed, whether because they're devil worshippers, they've never encountered Christ in the first place, or they did encounter Christ and then, worst of all, they rejected him. So you then get this sort of powerful set of symbolic resources to categorize people, and this, the argument goes, is where racism comes from. You can't sort of start it [INAUDIBLE] from modernity and take this history into account. OK. So that all was one. God, I need to talk fast or at least to skip. OK. Point number two, race as a construct. So one of the standard lines originally when these debates started happening, 20, 30 years ago was race is constructed, therefore it's unreal. And you have a bunch of folks saying, the conclusion does not follow at all. So there's a constructionism of an eliminativist kind which basically [INAUDIBLE] social construct if it's unreal. Whereas other people point out, there are all kinds of things constructed, such as this building. It doesn't mean you can walk through the walls because it's constructed. And that race falls into this category. So a significant amount of the body of work of critical philosophy of race over the past two decades has been to try to make a case for metaphysics of race in which race is real, but a social construct. And the social construct works not merely in terms of things like the internalization of racist beliefs, both on your part or the part of others, and the fact these social structures organize around race, opportunity structures and the legal system, so that all of this can interact with an individual and the social system means, then, that race is real. And this is important because in some countries-- and professor Balibar's France is one of them, not that I'm blaming him for that, of course-- is that race is not recognized as a category. You are all citizens of the republic, so what are you talking about race? And one of the great things about living in the good old USA, with all its faults, is that you are inundated with stats on race. You don't have to worry that you would not be able to find the appropriate set of data, because they're all going to be there. Whereas if you do not recognize race as a category in the census, it makes the anti-racist struggle much more difficult. So that in the riots you had in the [INAUDIBLE] years, about 10 years ago, and the coverage of it, you had various people, often of Arab, North African origin, saying I am a citizen by the laws of France. I'm a member of the republic. There's no demarcations. But when I go for a job, I am a dirty Arab at that stage. So really, the importance of recognizing the reality of race and not mistaking it for a racist, social construct, therefore race is not real. OK. Point three, racists shaping the work of political theorists. So we can see people working on race here as following the path of feminist theorists, a path, of course, that has blazed much earlier. I don't have to tell you the sort of huge body of work [INAUDIBLE] by feminists from the second wave period, looking at the [INAUDIBLE] and saying, how come we either don't appear or appear in these sexist ways? So we then have this sort of systematic examination of the crucial Western figures and how their work reproduces sexism, how their work is predicated on a functionalist view of women. Women are basically there to reproduce, keep the human race, where it's not the case that they should be treated as of the public sphere. So because of the under-representation of people of color in the [INAUDIBLE], there's been far less done in this region, but work is now beginning to be done. One of these sort of crucial recognitions has been that again-- again, not to pick on [INAUDIBLE]; I guess because he's here. So Arthur de Gobineau, when I was in that distant period in school, Gobineau was supposed to be sort of the father of modern racism. Whereas a growing body of work is arguing Gobineau was merely a popularizer. He took up this work that really existed; he synthesized it, put it in sort of popular form. But in fact we have to look earlier for the father of modern racism. And if you are prone to heart disease, get your medication ready or the EEGs or whatever. But increasing body of people are saying the real father of modern racism is none other than our boy Immanuel Kant. Immanuel Kant, the father of modern moral theory, increasing importance for modern, normative, political theory because of its appropriation by [INAUDIBLE] and Jurgen Habermas. But the anthropological writings, the geographical writings-- some people argue the late Emmanuel Eze, a Nigerian philosopher saw the crucial work that's been done by Robert Berlusconi that Kant's work basically gives us the four system [INAUDIBLE], a sort of theory of race in the modern sense, as distinct from pre-modern racism, which was theological or cultural but did not focus on mechanisms in the body. So think of what this says about the Western tradition, that you have this twin paternity-- the father of modern moral theory simultaneously the father of modern, scientific racism. So it brings out the extent to which there's this intimate link between enlightenment thought in Western humanism and racism. So as I said earlier-- I'm quoting Professor Balibar-- there's no necessary contradiction between Universalism, between humanism and racism. You just make sure that humans are constructed a certain way, that the universal is basically constructing a kind of sort of fashion. So you have this growing body of work, as they say. There's a political theorist at the University of Chicago, Jennifer Pitts. Very interesting book-- A Turn to Empire-- The Rise of Imperial Liberalism in Britain and France. The argument being that originally, liberal theory is not necessarily imperialist, not necessarily racist, but especially after the turn of the 19th century, you then get this consolidation of empire and increasing role of Western political theorists as apologists for it. So John Stuart Mill, for example, employee of the British East India Company, basically says Indians and these other colonized races, they are in their [INAUDIBLE]. They can't rule themselves. They have to be ruled by Britain. A figure less well known from the Anglo-American world-- of course, he did write Democracy in America-- Alexis de Tocqueville justifies the French conquest of Algeria. And even though [INAUDIBLE] makes the start of the 19th century a turning point, we need to recognize the extent to which previous figures had such views. For example, Thomas Hobbes excludes Native Americans from the ranks of those who are rational enough to organize the state of nature. John Locke stigmatizes Native Americans as so unproductive that they are betraying their divine imperative [INAUDIBLE] industrious and rationally appropriate the world, thereby justifying their expropriation by European settlers. [INAUDIBLE] invests in the African slave trade and writes the Carolina Constitution. David Hume says that no other race but whites have created a worthwhile civilization, and so forth. So once you go through them systematically, there are very few exceptions. Because even when people are anti-imperialists, it doesn't follow that they are committed to the equality of people of color. You can be anti-imperialist because, for example, you think anti-imperialism is going to have a blowback effect on [INAUDIBLE] or to make things go bad as seen with the Roman Empire. You could be anti-imperialist because you think imperialism is cruel. You could be anti specific kinds of imperialism, and argue for more of sort of benevolent form of imperialism. So the bottom line, and it should not a demanding one, is did the European theorists in question really see people of color as equals, or was it the case that they were categorized as savages and so forth? OK. So that was [INAUDIBLE] political theorists. So I mentioned racism as a political ideology, arguably the most important kind. OK, let me skip a bit. Otherwise I'll never get to-- OK. So, race as shaping the state. So, a long history of taxonomies of the state. There's the aristocratic state, there's a democratic state, oligarchic state, the absolutist state. We need a theorization of the racial state. David Theo Goldberg-- some of you may know his work-- did a PhD in philosophy. In fact, I think, in [INAUDIBLE] Center. Basically got disgusted with philosophy, said, these folks are hopeless. I'm out of here. And so now does not hang around philosophy circles or go to the APA. But a series of important books, one being on the racial state, and the crucial argument is this-- if you think of the racial state, you think of Nazi Germany, think of apartheid South Africa, or maybe in sub-systemic terms, you think of the American old South. Goldberg's claim is that the modern state, in general, is racialized in so far as the modern state is [INAUDIBLE] to the colonial state. It's a state that's going be having to differentiate the status of, let's say, indigenous peoples and slaves and so forth. So whether or not it's the case that it's going to overtly racist legislation and overtly dichotomize [INAUDIBLE] system, this state is going to be privileging whites at the expense of people of color. So the argument is expand over [INAUDIBLE] and recognize this character of racial state. In addition-- going back to the point of Professor Balibar-- of the sort of transcontinental relations, increasing body of work in critical IR. So critical IR basically says that mainstream IR tells a fictive story. It's basically the virgin birth at Versailles. So there's World War I, there's the Versailles Conference. Oh, this is terrible. We must make sure this never happens again. Well, that didn't work out too well, and that's when international relations is born. And critical IR theorists say that's complete nonsense, because international relations goes back to the epoch of European imperialism and colonialism, so you have to go back there. A very important book I'd recommend to you by a guy called John Hobson. For those who remember their Lenin, imperialism has a stage of capitalism. A Hobson is referenced there. This guy is that Hobson's great-grandson. The book is The Eurocentric Conception of World Politics. It looks at 250 years, from 1760 to 2010, and he basically says there's this consistent pattern of privilege in the West, so the superior civilization, whether on institutional terms or biological terms, but we need to see IR as racialized from the start. A more recent book by a guy called Robert Vitalis, White World Order, Black Power Politics, and Vitalis argues that there is this whole suppressed history. This whole suppressed history when it was sort of clear that the West saw themselves as this superior race managing these inferior races, and the crucial question was, how do we stave off global race war? And this whole literature has basically been suppressed, and a well-known journal-- I think it's Foreign Affairs-- was originally known as The Journal of Race Development. So, fascinating stuff in terms of all the writings uncovered. So again, see race not merely national but international. How am I doing in terms of time? Last five minutes or so? Five minutes. Last five minutes. OK. So, jumping ahead, then, what are the implications of all of this stuff for critical theory and for mainstream analytic roles and theory? The challenge for critical theory, I think, is that critical theory needs to recognize that Marx is wrong in various crucial ways. The social ontology is wrong; the periodization is wrong in that he basically says, from the Jewish question onwards, that modernity marks the end of status differentiations so the working class are not seen as morally inferior, they're just materially subordinated. And the point is, of course, with this competing narrative, is that modernity brings into existence racial distinction and racial distinctions, fundamental distinction, between the fully human population-- that would be Europeans-- and those whose humanity is in question. So it then means that you have running, tectonically, on a global scale, this normative dichotomization within the human race. And this, then, shapes people's consciousness in a radical way, and you arguably can make a case that, along with class exploitation, you also have a system of racial exploitation. That the way to think of white supremacy is in part racial exploitation, not in the orthodox, Marxist terms of super-exploitation, getting more for the bourgeoisie, but recognizing that white workers themselves benefit from this system, and white workers are either active in, or at the very least complicit with the system. So it then means that, rather than seeing class identity as a sort of overarching identity [INAUDIBLE] trump them all, we can see race and class and we need to recognize that the white working class have a vested interest in perpetuating things as they are. Because again, a great virtue of the US-- huge amount of literature in the past two decades on white wealth and black wealth, and the huge difference that there is in terms of the fates of these different sections of the population. Fine. John Rawls. [INAUDIBLE]. OK, so Rawlsianism [INAUDIBLE]. I wish I had several hours to talk to you about it. But the basic problem is that Rawls says we should think of society as a cooperative venture of mutual advantage, even if not all sides are well-ordered. And as a characterization of modernity, this comes close to being clinically insane because a white settler state, a slave society, a white [INAUDIBLE] polity is not a cooperative venture of mutual advantage. It's, of course, a venture for white advantage. So it means that if analytic philosophy has, as its pride, conceptual rigor and starting off clear and well defined concepts that track where the world is, it means at the very start of this theory, you have an utterly misleading concept that doesn't recognize that society is basically ill-ordered. And he then follows it out, and the result is this vast [INAUDIBLE] on social justice, in which the distinctive injustice of the modern world, racial injustice is never addressed. And just to give you a [INAUDIBLE] indication of this, there's been a sort of flood of handbooks and guides and [INAUDIBLE] the past decade or so. The latest referendum on John Mondale and David Reed is at the handbook of [INAUDIBLE], nearly 600 pages. Pages on race-- one and 1/2. If you look up affirmative action in the index-- and this is the most important postwar measure of corrective racial justice-- you get, and I kid you not, a single sentence. So Rawls has basically transmuted social justice theory, which in the lay concept, has everything to do with correcting injustice in the non-ideal world. He's turned into this discourse that is utterly disconnected from reality. So it has nothing to do with corrective justice. In fact, he never does discuss corrective justice, and this, basically, is part of the legacy. So that taking race seriously would mean radical transformation in all these sort of areas of the [INAUDIBLE] political sphere and I hope that you guys are open to radical folks that try to do this very thing. Thank you. Let me just start by saying how incredibly privileged I feel to be here to honor Etienne or to think with him about political concepts. This book came out right when I started graduate school, I think my second year, and I can't remember a time when I wasn't, in some ways, in imaginary or real dialogue with you, Etienne. So it's really a privilege. Am I speaking close enough? Can you hear me? Even closer. I can't see my paper. My concept is solidarity, which I suggest could be read as an ever-present shadow in Balibar's work, a concept that he does not thematize directly but I would suggest is implied everywhere. Balibar's ability to frame questions that warrant our attention, to specify what's at stake in doing so, and to lead us through his particular ways of engaging them is so remarkable. And for me, because how he thinks is as important as what he concludes, reading him for me is not unlike reading Marx and Arendt, two of his long-term interlocutors, although I would say he's a much more generous reader than either of them. It's no coincidence that Balibar's work may also be regarded as an important point of articulation between political economy and political theory. So we know that in the 1980s, Balibar shifted the explicit focus of his work from structural Marxism to democratic politics. But running through his writings has been a consistent interest in linking the two. In his 1965 contribution to Reading Capital, he argued against treating Marx as a Higelian historicist promoting a theory of universal history that proceeds through fixed evolutionary stages. 30 years later, as we heard this morning from Jacques, in the philosophy of Marx, he suggests that Marx's work invites us to treat historical change as prospective and conjunctural. There he reads Marx's reflections on a possible transition from capitalism to communism as not marking the necessary development of freedom, but as marking the time and space of struggles for a freedom that is never guaranteed. He explains that, from a Marxian perspective, quote, "action in the present requires theoretical knowledge of the material conditions which constitute the present." And he emphasizes Marx's consistent focus on what he calls socialization or, quote, "the capacity for individuals collectively to control their own conditions of existence." In other words, he thinks with and through Marx to offer us specific understandings of history, politics, and democracy, and in doing so, implicitly indicates the direction that his own work had taken since 1965. Thus, Balibar's critical reflections on the Bourgeois state, the nation form, borders, and territorial sovereignty, passive citizenship, and internal exclusion, anti-immigrant racism, and Islamophobia, fortress Europe, and actually existing French republicanism, as well, of course, as his ongoing efforts to formulate critical, emancipatory, and egalitarian forms of democratic Universalism, through which-- again, to echo his earlier lines-- individuals may collectively control their own conditions of existence in our historical present. Central to Balibar's multiplex efforts is the question of how, in the absence of the supposed certainties of universal history, class agency, ethnic unity, natural nations, or territorial fixity, a democratic political subject and social collectivity manages to emerge, to hang together, and act in the world. And if citizenship is one name that he assigns to this political phenomenon, we might locate the question of citizenship within the more general problematic of solidarity, and vice versa. And the concept of solidarity may itself be read as a Balibarian relay point between Marxism and democratic theory. So a brief geneaology, very selective. The modern concept of solidarity signaling solid blocks of resistance formed by subaltern subjects, developed in relation to the capitalist system and Bourgeois society whose individualist logic it always opposed. In The Many-Headed Hydra, Peter Leinbach and Marcus Rediker described the forms of autonomous self-organization and coordinated resistance that developed between the 16th and 19th centuries among sailors, slaves, pirates, dockworkers, peasants, religious radicals, and radical Republicans. Solidarity and autonomy are also key terms in the scholarship on slave revolts and [INAUDIBLE] in the early modern Americas, and on the post-emancipation rebellions and counter plantation systems created by Haitian and Jamaican peasants during the 19th century. Historians E. P. Thompson and William Sewell used the idiom of solidarity to trace how, following French and industrial revolutions, European skilled workers mobilized existing forms of collective identification and corporate organization to resist processes of expropriation and proletarianization through mutual aid societies, workers associations, and strikes. These solidarity practices crystallized, eventually, into a political project to reconstitute society on a non-liberal foundation. The popular current of the 1848 Revolution in France, for example, fought explicitly to create a social republic that would assume responsibility for citizens welfare through social rights founded on principles of mutuality, reciprocity, cooperation, and collectivity. Pierre-Joseph Proudhon explicitly used the concept of solidarity to describe his mutualist program for what he called socialist democracy, which would depend on workers organizing themselves and to producers' cooperatives, and creating a democratic system of banking and credit that, in his mind, would allow for exchange without exploitation. He believed that cooperative labor could triumph on ever larger scales with, quote, "democratically organized workers' associations serving as the pioneering core of a vast federation of companies and societies woven into the common cloth of the democratic and social republic." Proudhon remarked that in such a society, the center is everywhere; the circumference, nowhere. Accordingly, he also believed that these practices would create what he called a real solidarity among the nations, so he viewed mutualism and internationalism as two sides of the same coin. Marxist thinking was also inflected by 1848 and the politics of solidarity, however deep his disagreements with Proudhon were, as we know they were. Between the 1840s and the 1870s, Marx regularly critiqued industrial capitalism, liberal ideology, and the Bourgeois state from the standpoint of association. Marx used this term for the forms of sociality, organization, and unity practiced by workers in everyday life, in the workplace, and through labor struggles. He treated association as both a method of labor militancy, and as an end in itself which allowed workers to enjoy the kind of sociality that competitive capitalism had obstructed. In the 1844 Manuscripts, he writes, quote, "When communist workmen gather together, their immediate aim is instruction, propaganda, et cetera. But at the same time, they acquired a new need-- the need for society. And what appears as a means has become an end." End quote. He also notes that, quote, "In the gatherings of French socialist workers, smoking, eating, and drinking, et cetera, are no longer means of creating links between people. Company, association, conversation, which in turn has society as its goal, is enough for them. The brotherhood of man is not a hollow phrase. It is a reality." Marx in 1944 argues that, quote, "The individual is the social being whose activities express and confirm themselves directly in real association with other men." We can think here of Balibar's trans-individualism here, too. Thus, his sixth thesis on Feuerbach, to which Balibar pays particular attention, quote, "The human essence is no abstraction inherent in each single individual. It is the ensemble of social relations." Accordingly, Marx characterizes communism as, quote, "Activity in direct association with others," and contends that, quote, "In a real community, individuals obtain their freedom in and through association." The Communist Manifesto, of course, envisions society as, quote, "A vast association in which the free development of each is the condition for the free development of all." 10 years later, the [INAUDIBLE] invokes a system in which workers produce, quote, "In a directly social manner as the offspring of association in order to manage their common wealth." In 1867, Volume One of Capital, Marx repeatedly employs the image of freely associated producers as his stand point of critique and emancipatory horizon. And in 1871, he praises the Paris Commune for attempting to transform land and capital into, quote, "Instruments of free and associated labor." Marx also praises the commune for rejecting Bourgeois national chauvinism, arguing that, quote, "The international cooperation of the working classes is the first condition of their emancipation." The Communist Manifesto pledged that, quote, "Communists everywhere support every revolutionary movement against the existing social and political order of things." In his 1864 inaugural address to the first International Working Men's Association, Marx linked the failures of 1848 explicitly to an absence of international solidarity, which he characterized as, quote, "A bond of brotherhood which ought to exist between workmen of different countries, and incite them to stand firmly by each other in all of their struggles for emancipation." This, for Marx, was not only a matter of detached empathy or abstract morality. He insisted that, quote, "The emancipation of labor is neither a local nor a national, but a social problem, embracing all the countries in which modern society exists, and depending for its solution on the concurrence, practical and theoretical, of the most advanced countries." The international pledge that, quote, "When immediate practical steps should be needed, the action of the associated societies will be simultaneous and uniform." And each group promised to provide, quote, "The fraternal support of the associated working men to any individual member who moved from one country to work in another." Marx's internationalist orientation is nicely condensed in an 1870 letter on Irish nationalism he explains that because England is the world metropolis of capital-- his term-- a social revolution there is indispensable to the worldwide emancipation of labor. Moreover, he explained, English wealth and power depended largely on the colonization of Ireland, and finally he noted that a revolution was more likely to succeed in Ireland than in England. So Marx then concludes that, quote, "The decisive blow against the English ruling classes-- and it will be decisive for the workers' movement all over the world-- cannot be delivered in England, but only in Ireland." End quote. He thus called on the international to support Irish national liberation, reminding them that its special task-- his term-- quote, "Its special task was to make the English workers realize that, for them, the national emancipation of Ireland is not a question of abstract justice or humanitarian sentiment, but the first condition of their own social emancipation." End quote. Marx insisted that international solidarity was both a tactical necessity and a good in itself, declaring, quote, "All societies and individuals adhering to the international will acknowledge truth, justice, and morality as the basis of their conduct towards each other and towards all men, without regard to color, creed, or nationality. They hold it the duty of a man to claim the rights of a man and a citizen, not only for himself but for every man who does his duty." End quote. Now, this should not be mistaken, in my view, for an affirmation of Bourgeois humanism or abstract Universalism because Marx here envisions a global federation of labor that was, quote, "United in a perpetual bond of fraternal cooperation in which all of the particular working men's societies would preserve their existent organizations intact." End quote. So Marx here, I think, is trying to conjugate autonomous self-management and internationalist solidarity. This was a vision of concrete Universalism rooted in networks of socialist association. The forces of European order, of course, feared precisely the kinds of solidarity promoted by Marxism and embodied by the Paris Commune, but also, of course, at roughly the same time, by the general strike of enslaved African Americans during the US Civil War; by the 1865 Morant Bay peasant rebellion in Jamaica; by the rent strikes and boycotts against landlords and evictions during the Irish land war, beginning in 1879; and the coordinated actions of anarchist networks linking Europe, East Asia, and the Caribbean. Their counterrevolutionary fear-- that is, the forces of European order-- along with the new requirements of mass production and mass politics, set in motion the historic compromise among labor, capital, and the state that led, eventually, to social democracy and the Second International, to Fordist capitalism and Keynesian welfarism, or what Balibar calls the national social state. I just collapsed a lot there. Jumped ahead. But there is a whole line there that we can unravel. The important point is that, perversely, this attempt to reform liberal capitalism in order to neutralize Marxism and preempt class war was also articulated in the language of solidarity. But for turn of the century policymakers, in the French third republic, for example, and sociologists-- the Durkheimians-- solidarity was deployed to ensure social integration and public order, not to realize social justice or public freedom. Despite these efforts of domestication, of course, a legacy of solidarity practices continued to nourish 20th century movements against capitalism and imperialism. Gramsci, for example, participated in the Turin factory occupation and council movements, which culminated in the general strike of 1920. Gramsci then proposed creating new forms of solidarity between northern workers and southern peasants in the southern question, and we know that his prison reflections on relations of force, political blocs-- we can argue about socialist hegemony-- may be read as engagements with the problem of solidarity also. We know that, throughout the Soviet period, the Third International linked communist parties and revolutionary organizations around the world, and solidarity politics also nourished various noncommunist co-operative movements among poor whites and emancipated blacks in North America, as well as experiments by Caribbean fruit growers and West African peanut and cotton farmers. It infused mutual aid societies, multi-racial labor unions, and mass movements for democratic change among colonial workers and students living in European metropols between the world wars. It was extended through the period of decolonisation by world wide networks of anti-imperial internationalists. We know that the 1955 Bandung Conference was organized under the rubric of Afro Asian solidarity. We know that the African American civil rights struggle identified and allied explicitly with anti-colonial national liberation movements, and vice versa, and lots of scholarship has come out on that. I'm just throwing out examples here. The eruptions of May '68 did not only lead to unprecedented forms of solidarity among students, factory workers, intellectuals, technicians, and farmers in France. They were also part of a global wave of anti systemic rebellion that linked Western Europe and the United States to places like Prague, Mexico City, Dakar, and so many other sites. More recently, solidarity practices have been mobilized by Sandinistas, Zapatistas, Kurds in Rojava, and have informed efforts by the alter globalization movement, the World Social Forum, current anti austerity, anti autocracy, and Occupy movements worldwide. We can, of course, think about the divestment movement against apartheid in South Africa, current international efforts towards justice in Palestine. But of course, once again, solidarity has been co-opted and instrumentalized, now by Western states, international agencies, and the forces of global governance, which justify military intervention through liberal doctrines of human rights, humanitarianism, and just war. And we know that the global internet has allowed for solidarity to be depoliticized through individuals' immediate capacity to express digital hearts, likes, thumbs up, et cetera. International social media thereby displaces by perversely mimicking socialist internationalism, but of course, Standing Rock is unfolding before us. So this is a constant game of back and forth. So let me step back from this very selective genealogy to think about solidarity as a critical, political concept. So based on all of this, I would distill from this three types or aspects of solidarity. First are those forms associated with solidarity as a principle of struggle, whereby actors recognize shared or related conditions of domination and coordinate collective responses. Second are those forms associated with solidarity as a principle of sociality, whereby actors pursue self-organization according to principles of interdependent reciprocity, mutual responsibility, shared risks, and common futures. Third and related is solidarity as a principle of cosmopolitan or international linkage across collectivities or social formations. Now, each of these types or aspects raise questions about the grounds and motivations of solidarity that I would like to address through a set of provisional propositions. First-- and these are really for discussion, although I'm presenting them in propositional form. First, solidarity is never given. It is a political act, not a social fact. It does not flow naturally from primordial social groupings, whether figured in terms of kinship, community, ethnicity, or nationality. Nor should it be conflated with the fiction of self-interested individuals entering social compacts to guarantee security and maximize material welfare. Solidarity pre-supposes and produces social subjects, back to Marx's and Balibar's trans-individual. Social groups are as much the effect of solidarity practices as its source. The concept thus cuts across conventional oppositions between natural communities supposed to precede politics and trans-historical individuals supposed to precede society. Second, solidarity is a practice, not a sentiment, affect, or only an ethos. Solidarity practices are at once social, ethical, and political. They assume many forms, and are accompanied by as many different motives, but these matter less than the actual work that these practices do or don't pursue or achieve. Third, solidarity requires risk. It should be distinguished from feelings of compassion or acts of charity from safe distances. It is a standing with where something real is placed at stake, where actors risk some degree of protection or privilege otherwise enjoyed, however fleeting or illusory. It means sharing risk and putting oneself on the line by propelling oneself over lines supposed to mark an outside. Fourth, solidarity starts from entanglement. The commitment to stand with and put oneself in play; this stance of non-indifference flows from the fact of mutual implication; from actors' recognition that they are already involved in each other's situations, that they share a common world, and their future prospects are somehow bound together. They may share conditions of oppression, recognize a common enemy, or be linked through a broader system of intersecting domination. Alternatively, members of socially dominant groups may recognize their own implication in and responsibility for others' domination, whether near or far. In both cases, solidarity starts from the fact that, in a world without an outside, forms of domination create relations of mutual responsibility whereby the fate of each depends on all. The ethic of solidarity thus contrasts with the kind of liberal logic that underlies something like the right to protect, whereby atomized individuals delegate their social power to alien agencies, such as states, that act-- often violently-- to protect suffering individuals, usually absolute others, in the name of humanity. But I would suggest that solidarity, as I'm talking about it here, also contrasts with Levinas's and Derrida's infinite responsibility for the absolute other, which, despite their claims to the contrary, tend to situate self and other on different ontological and ethical planes. Solidarity is the response to a call, not the obligation to a face. It figures horizontal relationships among social individuals within and across struggling collectives that are already concretely implicated in each other's histories and fates, although it does not figure privilege majorities and dominant minorities as equally responsible to one another. I think that's an important distinction. So solidarity is a practice of identification that cuts across conventional oppositions between identity and difference. It calls into question categorical divisions between insiders and outsiders, the threatened and the protected, the implicated and the indifferent, or those who must take sides and those, supposedly like spectators or commentators, who can afford to stay off the field. But this does not mean that solidarity presupposes sameness, levels differences, or assimilates heterogeneity into a singular identity or undifferentiated totality, nor does it expect consensus. It is an uneven, messy, and risky enterprise, ever incomplete, that reveals systemic contradictions, acknowledges power differentials, and generates real conflicts. We can think of Balibar's conflictual citizenship. It is also evanescent. It comes and it goes. Fifth and following, solidarity emerges from and creates differential unities. It is not based on the concrete particular identity of primordial communities that naturally stick together or act in unison. Nor is it based on the abstract universal identity of generic humans supposed to share a common essence, whether reason, will, compassion, pain, et cetera. The very concept of solidarity presupposes the existence of differences that need to be provisionally coordinated. Yet at every scale, solidarity also calls into question categorical separations by recognizing or creating knots and networks of interdependent singularities, to use [INAUDIBLE] term. It establishes forms of heterogeneous commonality and concrete universality that displace false oppositions between the abstract universal and the concrete particular, between totality and plurality, between the shared and the singular. Solidarity refers to mutuality and reciprocity within and across heterogeneous formations. It displaces common sense divisions between us and them, inside and outside, here and there, proximity and distance. Sixth and following, solidarity reworks conventional spatial and temporal assumptions about the grounds of political association, for solidarity also anticipates futures. It calls for in order to call forth. It expresses the idea that emancipation struggles should aim to create solid blocks and dense networks as the best means to overcome multiple intersecting and shared forms of domination. But solidarity also suggests that the aim of such struggles is to create a social world and form of life based on precisely such principles of reciprocity, mutuality, and collectivity prefigured by the struggle. Solidarity practices work to create new subjects for a different kind of social order, and to create new social arrangements for a different kind of social subjectivity. And just as solidarity seeks to connect seemingly separate groups in space, it also links groups across seemingly separate epochs. We can think about forms of temporal solidarity, whether figured as traditions, legacies, constellations, afterlives, or anticipation, whereby actors assume responsibility for past and future generations. Both Kant and [INAUDIBLE], in different ways, write about this. So solidarity is both a means and an end in itself; an instrument of politics and a political good; an ethical practice and a practical ethics; a strategy that enacts the relations it hopes to institute. The concept thus displaces conventional oppositions between the actual and the possible, realism and utopianism, activity and imagination, doing and waiting, present and future, past and present. Solidarity practices are always taking place and stretching time. Propelled by the dialectics of gap and link distinction and connection, multiplication and unification, its work can never reach a boundary or come to a stop. In contrast to pragmatic realism or regulative idealism, solidarity is a real practice that has no intrinsic limits. It offers a resource for engaging the political antinomy identified by Arendt, which continues to haunt current politics, whereby popular sovereignty within determinant polities is both indispensable for and antithetical to a human freedom that must somehow be based on self-management and encompass all of humanity. And I read that as very central to Arendt and to what we are now confronting today. So I'm going to finish up here. We now inhabit a world where people's life prospects are determined by systemic forces and distant deciders that are beyond the reach of any state sovereign power; where economic, demographic, geopolitical, and environmental entanglement and interdependence have never been denser; where processes of structural violence are creating impossible situations for greater and greater numbers of people, more and more of whom are permanently displaced. So the need to coordinate struggles, assume responsibility, and share risks across spurious divisions has never, to my mind, been greater. Equally urgent is the imperative to envision and enact democratic social orders based upon principles of reciprocity, mutuality, and collective self-management, under which the rule of capital, the sovereignty of reified states, and social hierarchies based on invidious anthropological distinctions may be overcome. Under current conditions, this kind of project-- what Marx called human emancipation-- will certainly require plural and push national frameworks through which to try to reconcile political autonomy and planetary politics, popular sovereignty and cosmopolitan association. Can federal forms of struggle, sociality, and subjectivity impel us to think beyond the culturalist, territorialist, and statist assumptions that have long overdetermined political common sense across the ideological spectrum? So despite its many limitations, including the risks of voluntarism, instrumentalism, paternalism, and fraternalism, the concept of solidarity points beyond many current debates, such as that between Universalism and particularism, humanism and anti-humanism, Marxism and anarchism, class versus race, political economy versus post-colonial theory, communality versus singularity, realism versus utopianism, et cetera. Solidarity indicates the limits of a purely negative critique that treats the rejection of neoliberalism, Eurocentrism, or humanism as its aim rather than its starting point, or that treats all future-oriented practices as symptoms of a cruel optimism. I would suggest that solidarity compels us to confront the difficult challenges of entanglement and interdependent mutual responsibility and shared risk, cooperation and coordination, insurgent blocks and differential unities, and non-identitarian forms of association-- the impurity that [INAUDIBLE] was talking about before. These are, of course, precisely the issues I would suggest that Balibar has been working through with ever-increasing insight and urgency for the past 20 or 30 years. In response to Jean-Luc Nancy's 1989 question, who comes after the subject, Balibar we know answered, the citizen. His writings, of course, contained detailed arguments about the becoming citizen of the subject, and the becoming subject of the citizen. But I also read his response, the citizen, to mean that it is not enough to simply reiterate the anti-humanist position; that in this moment of world historical transformation, critical theory should seize the opportunity created by the critique of the subject to re-imagine democratic politics accordingly for this historical conjuncture. Thus, what I read as Balibar's over-arching commitment to a new politics of being in common. That's one of the threads that runs through so much of what he's writing. His generative formulations regarding equiliberty, co-citizenship, citizenship without community, the right to have rights, and the need to democratize democracy. I read these as attempts to reconcile situated autonomy and planetary politics; to envision forms of real democracy adequate to our global present, which are neither grounded in community, nationality, or anthropological differences on the one hand, nor abstract humanism and normative humanity on the other, and which refuse to allow constitutive social power to be alienated in sovereign states, transnational bureaucracies, or a world government. In short, I read Balibar as engaging with the promise and perils of solidarity, whether he would agree or not. So there's no pause, but we're lucky to have Bruce speaking next on-- Anthropological. So, the really good thing about coming at the end of a very rich and long day is that hopefully you will all be so tired that you will not ask us any [INAUDIBLE] questions. First thing. Second thing-- after lunch, as Peter Osborne and I were getting up, he said, so, you were really brave to take on the hotly debated topic of the anthropological term in the late Balibar. And I said, I didn't know there was a hotly-debated topic. So if anyone is expecting a commentary on the hotly-debated topic of the anthropological term, I'm sorry. Yes? Oh, great. OK. The use of the term, anthropological, in common parlance can be illustrated by a post-election op ed-- many of you will have seen it-- in the New York Times by Mark Lilla. Lilla writes-- you can ask questions about him rather than me; that would be good-- "The media's new-found almost anthropological interest in the angry white male reveals as much about the state of our liberalism as it does about this much maligned and previously ignored figure. To say that the media's new-found interest in the angry white male is almost anthropological is to imply that the media have suddenly begun looking across a distance at a newly discovered, or at least somewhat exotic, tribe or natural kind, fixing it with a naturalizing stare that imposes the differences it pretends to discover." For Lilla, observing this object from an almost anthropological angle is clearly a mistake. The angry white male ought not to have been ignored by the media or the Democratic Party. Its likes and dislikes ought to have been better known than those of, say, women and minorities. Lilla does not quite say that the election would have had a different result if the situation had been reversed and it was women and minorities that were looked at anthropologically. I couldn't tell whether that was going to be funny or not, actually. [INAUDIBLE] Yeah, everything's funny. You guys are punch-drunk. OK. He does not reflect on the opposite but equally pertinent understanding of anthropological that my anthropologist daughter and I fight about from time to time, namely, showing excessive deference to the subjectivity of its subjects, or on how we would feel about an identity politics that would include the nonmilitant identity of the angry white male Trump voter. So I begin with this, and at 6:30 it doesn't seem like a good idea, really, but the common parlance of the word anthropological not because that's the way Etienne uses it, because he doesn't; and not really because I think it's fair to ask Etienne for advice on how to deal with the rhetorical situation that we are all in right now; but really because we can't help but think about that rhetorical situation. So I just had to point at it. In an interview conducted after the French publication of Citizen Subject, now coming out thanks to Fordham University Press, Etienne says that his interest in the term anthropology began with the early Foucault. This accords with the selection that he and John Reichmann made in their anthology of post-1945 French philosophy. The second item on the table of contents is Foucault's introduction to Kant's Anthropology. And Foucault's point in that text-- and this is a very crude summary-- is that the term anthropology promises a knowledge it can't deliver. It can't deliver that knowledge because its supposed object-- man-- doesn't exist. In the interview, Etienne says he differs from Foucault-- trying to create some trouble here-- because he is not as interested in the disciplines, or the epistemological conditions necessary for the emergence of disciplines. And I think this is actually true as far as the discipline of anthropology is concerned. It seems to me that he's fascinated by particular anthropologists, [INAUDIBLE] and [INAUDIBLE], and how anthropology can go wrong as in Talal Asad, but he rarely uses the word anthropological to refer to the disciplinary perspective of anthropology. The other sense in which he differs from Foucault in anthropology, he says, is that he's not interested in debating the ontology of the human; that is, arguing either for or against a human essence. What he is interested in, and what he wants to distinguish from the human essence, can be described, he says, in two overlapping ways. First, as the human condition, where condition refers to being conditioned or determined or dependent; and second, as politics, a word that has come up a lot. Politics, one might surmise, as a necessary response to being conditioned, determined, dependent. I think it's fair to say, or at least trying to create some trouble, that Foucault's rejection of the anthropological object, man, at that early stage in his career was not intended as political in the usual sense of the term, and indeed might be understood as discouraging politics in the usual sense of the term. How we feel or ought to feel at this moment in history about politics in the usual sense of the term-- well, I wouldn't be sorry to see that question raised. At any rate, Etienne's disagreement with Foucault about anthropology and anthropological does not mark a disagreement about human essence, but a desire on Etienne's part to make a case that those who share the human condition also necessarily share a political condition; that-- we've heard this before-- the subject cannot be conceived without the citizen; or to put this another way, that the proper object of the term anthropological is not man, but politics. In another version of this paper, and probably the one that I will try to write up later, I would pivot here on the word politics, which is, to pick up Jay's adjective, a load bearing term, and we're asking it to carry an enormous amount of weight. And I would play a little bit with the temporality, which I'm sorry that Bonnie is not here, because I know she's interested in this. The temporality of politics, beginning with the fact that politics, it seems to me, is by definition primarily concerned with the present. One reason why I chose the word anthropological-- and this was, of course, well before I could imagine the results of the election-- was the larger or deeper timescale that anthropological implies. A time scale measured, one might say, in tens of thousands of years, including both recorded history and what we sometimes call pre-history. The anthropological marks a time scale, therefore, on which the present tense urgencies of politics cannot make the same claim to be decisive, interpretively speaking, and I'd argue that Etienne knows this even as, like the rest of us, he flings politics against the solid wall of anthropological differences. The word anthropological does not appear in the index of Violence and Civility, but it gets into one chapter title, at least as a noun, and I think it was the background hum-- the excitement-- of that extraordinary book that made me reach instinctively for the word anthropological at the moment of choosing, which, of course, is always too early. Much of Violence and Civility is devoted to arguing against the present day liberal impulse to make violence the self evident and decisive target of political energies that, I quote, "There is no nonviolence." In doing so, of course, the book takes on a very up to the minute task. It speaks a good deal about capitalism and Marxist capital-- again, very up to the minute. But at the same time, Violence and Civility also chooses to work within a [SPEAKING FRENCH] on a scale that goes back well before the advent of capitalism. Violence and Civility might be described as civilizational concepts; concepts without which civilization could not be defined, and which have therefore been involved in debate about its definition at least since the beginning of philosophy. Call it ancient Greece. There's a conversation there. No one who has ever read Etienne will have missed his extraordinary, one might almost say helpless love, for the full length and breadth of the philosophical canon. My point here may be something too obvious to need saying, is that the commitment to reflect always on Hobbes and Hegel and Aristotle and everyone in a book on violence and civility is also a commitment to think outside the frame of Marx's critique of capitalism; a commitment to think these subjects on a larger scale. I'm calling it anthropological in the paper I haven't written yet. In Citizen Subject, which is subtitled Foundations for Philosophical Anthropology, Etienne says that he's interested in the word anthropological because the word marks the limits of Marxism, and this limits of Marxism is obviously an area he's been exploring for a long time. Marxism, he suggests, may or may not agree with him that differences are, quote, "undefinable or impossible to localize," but it has definitely missed the other half of the double bind-- the fact that they are unavoidable. It's impossible to imagine the human being deprived of these differences without being the victim of unbearable violence. Thus it suffers from, I quote, "a disastrous political blindness," an inability to recognize, and here I'm quoting on and off, "the exclusions and disqualifications that are intrinsic to civic Bourgeois universality; exclusions and disqualifications that are irreducible to any single model or procedure; irreducible, that is, to Marxism's procedural model, which I assume to be something like a critique of capitalism, or an attribution of primary causal efficacy to capitalism." Say this very quickly. The implication is that Marxism, though critical of civic Bourgeois universality, by focusing on capitalism has also taken over some of liberalism's blindnesses. To this I add that, from its beginnings, Marxism has also been interested in the pre-capitalist past, if only so as to figure out where capitalism fits in a larger materialist history. In that sense, Marxism has always already been anthropological, and in taking on terms like violence and civility since ancient Greece, Etienne is continuing that tradition. It would be convenient, for this paper that I haven't written, if I could immediately point to a useful linkage between, on the one hand, the anthropological timescale, and on the other what Etienne calls anthropological differences, almost always in quotation marks-- race, gender, sexuality, and so on. As of now, that's not a claim I can make. What his reflections on violence and civility suggest to me is the possibility of continuing to think ethically and politically in a newly expanded temporal landscape that most often seems to disable ethical and political categories, that sometimes even seems intended to disable ethical and political categories. To me, at least, inhabiting that expanded temporal landscape does not seem optional, which is one reason why we need his help. In the era that has finally acknowledged climate change, who does not feel the need for some materialist attention to a longer [INAUDIBLE], a [INAUDIBLE] in which human impact on the planet can be recontextualized. I'm thinking of a situation in which industrial capitalism must make room for other and earlier causes of the extinction of species, and characteristically it was Etienne who first told me I had to read Dipesh Chakrabarty on the environmental de-centering of capitalism. I am grateful for this. Who does not applaud the deprovincializing of Europe? But what happens when the deprovincializing of Europe, which has been mainly discussed in spatial terms, as an inclusion of perspectives coming from territories and peoples that had been colonized or otherwise abused is carried out as a temporal enterprise, a widening of the team frame, so that the roughly 500 years of Europe's rise to preeminence and global hegemony no longer occupy the center of the story? One answer is that a certain ethical critique of empire is disabled. Again and again, it's suggested that an ethical vocabulary would be an alien, modern, European imposition on non-European and pre-modern empires which, as many of you probably know, are being more and more discussed in the same frame now with European imperialism. A more general answer in literary criticism, but also across other disciplines, sometimes under the influence of Bruno Latour-- and here I'm going to overlap a bit with what [INAUDIBLE] said this morning, is that critique is disabled, or held, again, to be a mere fashion that has had its day-- run out of steam is the expression. I've referred to Talal Asad and the suggestion that we are now all post-secular if not frankly anti-secular. At this scale, secular concepts like democracy and equality can be redescribed as provincial. It's a familiar move. Reactionary Anglo-Europeans, using the supposed demographic weight of non-European opinion, to back up a commitment to hierarchy, submission, and so on, that actual non-Europeans today, if consulted, would most often be quite unenthusiastic about. Ethics is disqualified where ethics is necessary. For example, with regard to pre-modern and/or non-European empires, which are discussed as if the anti-imperial judgments brought to bear on modern European empires would be hopelessly anachronistic. The effect being to disable judgment of the European empires as well, to just basically disqualify the whole vocabulary. Ethics is then applied unconsciously where it is totally inappropriate. For example, in the assertion that no world history can be valid unless, in any given case, causal agency is attributed equally to every actor and every geographical region. This is history as politeness. It's bad history, and it's also bad politics. As I see it, it is this intellectual landscape that Etienne is trying to learn to maneuver around in when he uses anthropological to mean not capitalism or not merely capitalism. And when, accordingly, he calls for a redefinition of terms like exploitation and surplus value, which I believe he's done right here at Brown, so as to admit the productive power of nature and the productive power of domestic labor, the latter dictated by the sexual division of labor, and both of them working on timelines distinct from the time line of exploitation. Exploitation supposedly works by itself, a modern machine that distinguishes capitalist society from all others which have relied instead on violent coercion, and therefore must be described as depending on domination, not exploitation. The anthropological term-- I'm willing to believe there is one-- which allows exploitation to be absorbed back into the now more universal category of domination forces us to confront the possibility that history, overflowing with empirical differences, may be much more random than Marxism has traditionally been comfortable with, a possibility that Perry Anderson raised decades ago in his book on E. P. Thompson but that he himself, arguably, did not quite know what to do with either. As I read him, Etienne is unique among contemporary Marxists in refusing to stay out of this dangerous zone, a zone where Marxism threatens to dissolve into difference. Violence, the anthropological scale object to which Etienne has paid the most sustained attention, has much the same unsettling effect. The more history is determined by violence, the more random, capricious, and arbitrary history becomes. In other words, the less history presents itself as structured, or even as structurable-- I mean structurable by politics. What the term differences really means, down and dirty, is that politics in the sense of the struggle for justice, or if you prefer as the struggle for more meaningful life for more people, becomes harder to conceive. This is one reason why the place of violence in human history remains one of the more interesting aporias for Marxism, as, for example, in Gopal Balakrishnan's book Antagonistics. I note in passing that, as Etienne already observed in Citizen Subject, here anthropological differences seem opposed to politics rather than being constituted by politics. Let's return to the idea that anthropological differences are indeed constituted by politics. The word politics, about which we heard from Adi just now, is, among other things, a way of insisting on what anthropological differences are not. It means such differences are not preexisting characteristics, and it means they're not particulars opposed to the universal. So what are they? Etienne offers various answers, all of which seem to be versions of politics, but in a slightly mysterious or work in progress sort of way. He says the differences are better considered as relations-- that was the subject of Jacques's talk this morning-- and reversing the idea of differences as particulars opposed to the universal, he says, of course, that differences are better considered on the contrary as claims to universality. This is a phrase that I have always liked a lot. The question it raises, or that I decided I would use this opportunity to make it raise, vis a vis the definition of anthropological difference as politics, is whether these are two ways of saying the same thing or not. If they're not, then one would be tempted to reframe their relationship by saying that, after all, claims to universality function like particulars in the sense that, when they conflict, as they must, they demand some sort of adjudication or settlement or rebalancing. We have to imagine what happens when one claim to universality walks up to or runs into another claim to universality. Where are they meeting? What do they say to each other? And in what language did they say it? In other words, can you really solve the problem of anthropological differences by kicking it upstairs? If difference is a claim to universality, it seems to follow that there must be a site or a zone or a field-- I don't know what the proper metaphor is here and it probably matters-- where conflicting claims to universality can meet and something can happen, leading to some new settlement of the conflict, if not a resolution. You may not want to use the word universality to designate that site or zone or field where claims to universality meet. That is another higher order of universality. But that's how it seems called upon to function. Etienne speaks against the liberal model whereby the state is the supposedly universal site where differences as particulars are measured and managed, and I know he vehemently rejects the idea that the state has a monopoly of the universal. But I have trouble, perhaps because I'm too accustomed to the liberal model, seeing exactly what could happen to various claims to universality if it's not some version of that model. In other words, politics located wherever as a process by which various claims to universality are brought together with each other somehow, and some new fusion or balance or coalition between them is achieved. So no, the state has no monopoly on universality, but it gets a piece of the action. If Etienne is indeed saying that anthropological differences are politics, while hesitating to imply that politics is also the process by which anthropological differences are induced to confront other anthropological differences and work out their differences, so to speak, then the intention would presumably be not to think of politics as exterior to those differences, as a manager of or mediator between them; but rather, as constitutive of them. The differences, so I imagine the argument would go, are nothing but the encounter, the confrontation in which, lord and bondsman-like, they are fashioned and refashioned; that is, constituted. And constituted strikes me as a worthwhile word for us to take on. I'm not going to volunteer for it. I think it's above my pay grade, but it's been used a lot. I speculate that the one key difference between Etienne and Foucault on the state, the presumptive place where differences as claims to universality would confront each other, or one place, is that Etienne won't allow the word constitute to do more work than it is capable of doing. They agree that the state, or governance-- whatever-- produces differences and discriminates on the basis of the differences it produces. But I think Etienne has more time for politics conducted at the level of the state because, unlike Foucault, he recognizes effective or successful impact on the state coming, we used to say, from below, presumably from particular collective agents who were not fully formed by the state; not fully constituted by the state. Etienne forebears from specifying them or how and where they are constituted. I know he does not want to give them any preexisting characteristics. But even more than that, it seems to me, he does not want to allot to the state, or to governance, or to power, the theological omni-competence of constituting differences all by itself without input from somewhere else. I'm going to skip something. Let me try to make this sound a little less vague. I could really get myself into serious trouble here. Maybe I will. Sure. Well, in a second. This isn't the part where I get myself into trouble. At two places in the conclusion of Citizen Subject, the phrase anthropological differences is preceded by the adjective great. The phrase is great anthropological differences. Great is a small word, but I think it opens the door to a very large point. It implies, of course, that some differences are not so great. We don't say that. I mean, do we? I could just stop and ask. The implication is that the forms of discrimination and the sufferings that follow from those forms can be compared. In a sense, it implies-- here's where I start getting into trouble-- some suffering is more equal than other suffering. Differences are commensurable. There is a field or ground on which they can be compared or otherwise related to each other. I believe that this view is not universally held. The anecdote which would get me into deep shit here would have to do with a debate that happened on the campus of Columbia University when it was proposed that we bring back ROTC, the Reserve Officer Training Corps. And the first time we had this debate, my side-- the do not bring back ROTC side-- won because of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." And I immediately said to myself, if I had to explain to friends outside the United States that it is on the grounds of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," that we defeated the return, they would not believe me. The second time we lost, and the strongest argument offered by my side was, but what about trans people? So, OK. No serious conversation among the undergraduates happened about all those people out there that the army would do things to. OK, so. You think I'm not in trouble? I think I am, but anyway. So I will forbear from bringing up intersectionality and how I think Etienne is saying something that's quite different from that, and I'll just come to a conclusion. What the adjective anthropological adds to the plural noun differences, of course, is the question of the human. If I had to specify what kind of question the question of the human is, I would say-- and I think I would be channeling Etienne here-- that it is not an ontological or an epistemological question, but a political question. What I mean by this is that it can be settled, and settled again. Never finally, never resolved, but settled, only by different claims to universality pushing up against each other, both struggling against and joining with each other, finding common ground both on which to join and on which to do battle. When we imagine many voices jostling to be heard, we should not imagine-- this is for you, Amanda-- George Eliot's roar that lies on the other side of silence, a roar that Eliot declares to be unbearable and unlivable; in fact, fatal to those who hear it. We must also imagine these voices as listening to each other. Civility is as much a political fact as differences are. Like violence, it is anthropological. Thank you. [INAUDIBLE] well, extremely well together, and so I'll just take some names. Tim? Emily? Peter? Jay? [INAUDIBLE] OK. We'll start there. So we have no mic? [INTERPOSING VOICES] So Tim, you're up. Thank you so much. Oh, great. It works. I have two-- they worked wonderfully together. I'd like to, first of all, move that we extend discussion for another hour so that we can really get to the bottom of these papers. But I have a question for Charles and a question for Gary. The question for Charles is, what is the goal of the philosophy of race? Does it remain the abolition of race? And if so, are some of the moments that are fascinating-- kind of brilliant paper-- are the many moments that you criticize, justifiably and comprehensively, in the history of social theory, anything other than merely premature abolitions of race? And if the goal of the philosophy of race is not the abolition of race, what is the goal? So that's my question. [INAUDIBLE] Is the goal of the philosophy of race the abolition of race? The abolition of race as a concept. And if it is, what do we do with earlier instantiations of a constitution of politics on non-racial grounds. For example, if we think about Marxist internationalism, could we talk about that as a premature abolition of race? What we do with solidarity, to bring in Gary's fascinating concept? What do we do with solidarity, particularly as constituted as a principle of sociality? What do we do with that category, in the light of the question of the potential endpoint of the philosophy of race? And it strikes me that one possible answer to that is actually contained in Bruce Robinson's paper, which would be to say that the temporality of politics is the temporality of the present. That would be one answer, but I'd be interested to know what your answer is to that. And then I also just have a question for Gary. Is solidarity a trope? And I'm asking that, obviously, in the lights of Ellen's paper, and in particular in the light of your final few, quite elevated and quite interesting descriptions of what solidarity [INAUDIBLE] of what solidarity is. OK, so there are two main answers, as you'd expect. [INAUDIBLE] Is this what you're working on? [INAUDIBLE] Yeah, there are two main answers. There are some people, and I'm one of those people, who think race is a construct brought into existence by discriminatory processes. With the diminution and vanishing of those processes and the clearing up the legacy they've left behind, race would be vanished with that. So you'd still have ethnicity, so [INAUDIBLE], but you would no longer have race. That's one answer. Other people have given the answer that, over this period of time, and the example of black Americans, race has sort of condensed within it a certain sort of narrative, a certain set of meanings that you get attachment that would [INAUDIBLE] the end of racism. So if you could then have a post-racist society, in which people still found it meaningful to identify in racial terms. In terms of the different ideals, such as solidarity, I'm all for them. The question you just need to ask, and this goes to gender as well, to what extent are they consistently cross color line, and to what extent have they been racially shaped? So basically, freedom for everybody except, fraternity for everybody except women, and then [INAUDIBLE]. So it's not the case that I'm opposed to any of these ideas. I'm all for them. I'm just saying that the question is, in terms of their effectiveness, [INAUDIBLE], for example, has the white working class, has another working class, being in in solidarity with southern struggles. There's this book you probably know, Domenico Losurdo, Liberalism-- A Counter-History. So an expose [INAUDIBLE] even worse than he thought. So not just gender and race, but even exclusions affecting the white, male, working class. And one of his points is that the inclusion of the white working class often takes place at the cost of your participation in imperialist walls, so that, oh, can we let you in? I'm going to go up here and start shooting folks. So, that kind of question-- to what extent are these ideals. And [INAUDIBLE] internationalism as well. To what extent have socialist and communist parties in the metropolitan countries been fully in solidarity, for example, with the national liberation movements of the 20th century? To what extent did they temporize, did they say, well, wait, not just yet, and so forth? Is solidarity a trope? I'm not really equipped to answer that question in part because I don't think in terms of tropes. But I guess the provisional answer would be something like, solidarity is a practice and a project. And it's the project side of it that I think is linked to your question of trope. So it is a kind of concrete, everyday practice that contains within it an image. Maybe you guys can tell me more about the relationship between image and trope, but it's a political practice with an imaginative, prefigurative, anticipatory image of what might be possible based on what is actually happening. So to me, the politics of solidarity always entail something more than just a kind of realist understanding of material practices. If that brings it to trope territory, perhaps. But maybe whether Cesar or Benjamin talk in terms of images, and I think that that's the way to go. Can I say something about this question of race and solitary? For me the question is, and there's no question that the Communist Party, the white working class in both Europe and the United States has had dismal records with respect to solidarity. There's no question. So then, I guess that many of these forms of solidarity explicitly erected all kinds of color lines. So then the question is, what do we conclude with that? Do we take something like solidarity off the table based on that, and one of the places I go to is Dubois and James, who both teach us, or certainly teach me, about the unending racism of the white working class and insist they do know what they're doing, and they do benefit from it. And we don't let them off the hook in this anthropological sense of the angry white males. And yet the black radical thinkers I read insist that we say the transformative project will be impossible without some kind of larger-- but then that's the trope. It's always [INAUDIBLE]. It's not always [INAUDIBLE]. It's not a regulative ideal. It's something that the planetary possibility can only happen, whether you're thinking in climate terms, through these bigger, coordinated efforts. I don't think that's the last word, but I think that's the opening [INAUDIBLE] for all of us. [INAUDIBLE] ask a question. OK. There's Peter and then Emily. Emily, then Peter? I'm sorry. Sorry, sorry. Emily first. You're right. Quickly. So I just want to come back a little bit in relation to Bruce's talk about the where is politics. I loved the way you set up, through Etienne's work, the kind of adjudicating universalisms that are, in many ways, need this third adjudicator, and the same with differences. But it seemed to me to fall a little bit into the Mark Lilla trap of, there are limited ways of thinking politics, Universalism versus identity politics, or the state on the one hand and a kind of identity politics that's anthropological on the other. And the problem here, it seems to me, is that these are the dominant forms of political theorizing. These are the terms that have traction for a very long time. But they leave out something that has been bothering me for a long time, and I've been thinking about it in different projects, which is, where is the vocabulary for what gets off the table, the capital parliamentarian discourse, the language for donors networks and cronyism and lobbying? In a sense, the what works aspect of politics that we're moving into, not just from inside legislative systems or who's in Washington, but fanning out into this much more diffuse area of, how do we mark the political in a much wider field? Where a lot of things that get left out when you keep to this kind of rigor of state politics versus-- which in America has always been more complicated, I think, than in the European welfare state-- and identity politics? These are very much the hot terms for America. It doesn't apply to other places. So the question really is about the need for a larger vocabulary of obstruction, or also of cronyism or nepotism or lobbyists in bed with politicians, very straightforward stuff that's part of the materialism of the way politics seems to me to be happening but is rarely addressed in theory. I don't know all that much about political theory. I think words like cronyism and nepotism really function very well. This is a very bad moment, and we will feel for some time now, clearly, that what's the matter that people don't get it about cronyism and nepotism and so on? But I'm not sure that's a vocabulary question. It's a movement question, and it's a party question. So I was unabashedly celebrating in Etienne a pragmatic connection to politics at the level of the state, which, OK, you'll say the mainstream has never given that up. But the left, it seems to me, here-- or the academic left, pardon the expression-- has not actually gotten on board that. And I think Etienne is one of the few people responsible enough to say, you have to do that too. You can't get away from doing that. Now as always, I feel very crude when I translate Etienne, but I'm just saying for me, that's an important thing that he has meant. Now, I would say and I think he would say-- and he could say it-- that of course you can't do that without movement politics, and this is going to be a moment, in particular, where people are going to have to do that. But I think there's a lot of back and forth between movement politics and parliamentary politics. And I personally am very invested in some of the stuff that Gary was talking about-- forms of international solidarity, cosmopolitan solidarity. The fact that we just lost a big one should not make us forget that there have been moments, even recently-- taking recently relatively. Like, on February 15, 2003, more people came out to protest the Iraq war that was about to happen than had ever come out internationally in a coordinated way in history. Now, the war happened anyway, but the fact that the war happened anyway didn't mean that there wasn't something very promising about that. So I'm not sure that we have to throw out the vocabulary and find a new one. No, I wasn't suggesting that. It was just a question of a bigger [INAUDIBLE]. Peter. This is a question for-- is this working? It's a question for Bruce, but in a way, I'd also like Charles to comment on it. By my understanding, one of the difficulties with the re-introduction of the anthropological lies not in the word anthropological but in the word philosophical. That is to say, the problematic debate is the qualification of anthropological by philosophical, and you said nothing about that. You said politics is the proper object of the anthropological. But it's not political anthropology; it's philosophical anthropology. And this is a term with a very right-wing history, obviously, as we know. And so one needs some kind of reflection on that, right? Which is why I asked Charles about it, because I think it's odd that you neglected to note that. I neglected to note it because I had nothing to say about it. On the other hand, there's someone here who might really have something to say about it. I will not be long. This is a very interesting point. I hope you don't find that I am retreating from really confronting the issue, but I would very much like to historicize this question. Bruce referred to my reading Foucault's successive formulations on the question of philosophical anthropology, which began, as we all know-- or we know it now because it's been published posthumously-- to the central issue of what to do with Kant's double discourse. That is the discourse of the critique and the discourse of the pragmatic anthropology. And so, [INAUDIBLE] in the thesis [INAUDIBLE], the commentary of [INAUDIBLE], that Foucault did not want to publish, in fact, himself. The idea of the so-called empirical, transcendental doublet was there. But there was also there the idea that, in a sense, the truths or the key to the enigmas of the-- Monique knows better than anybody here what to say about that-- to the interpretation of the critique, and not only the first but also the second and the third, should be looked for in the pragmatic anthropology. Now, I won't go further on that except to say that this raised, for a number of questions, my interest in the history of this debate on philosophical anthropology in modern, if you like, European philosophy. And at some point, I had dreamt-- almost certainly I won't be able to do it-- I had dreamt of writing or sketching-- I taught classes, of course-- something like a history or a description of the successive moments of that debate, of which there are three which are typical, of course. And the interesting thing is that they are linked to one another through a process of migration, translation, and accommodation. So to speak of certain key figures who, because of European history in the 20th century, had to move first from Germany to France or England, and then almost immediately, of course, to the United States. So you have the first moment-- this is the 1920s and early '30s-- when some German philosophers essentially [INAUDIBLE]-- make a big discovery. They look into a corner of Kant's Nachlass-- well, it was published, but-- Minor Works, the so-called course on logic, which is not even written by Kant himself. And they find this extraordinary gem or treasure, namely the formula that nobody, of course, had ever commented upon before that the meaning of the [INAUDIBLE] or the final truths of the three transcendental questions lies in the question, wass ist der Mensch? What is man? So the discussion begins. All the currents are taking part. [INAUDIBLE] followers, phenomenologists, neo-Kantians, et cetera, and they all, in a sense take up the idea of philosophical anthropology. And Heidegger said, no way. We don't want that. He's the one who says no. That's the first step. And then the second is the French debate in the in the '50s and the '60s. So I won't go into detail, but that's the big debate on humanism, anti-humanism, which is also linked to the question of philosophical anthropology because Sartre and some others have picked up that. And then there's, of course, the American side of that with [INAUDIBLE] and Arendt bringing [INAUDIBLE]. So I do believe that we need that history, and I confess that a large part of the reasons why I took up the formula was I had become increasingly convinced that this debate carried stakes and questions which, of course, had been continuously displaced but had not been canceled or resolved. And if I may add a very quick additional remark, several texts were very important for me in this respect, but one which hasn't been mentioned here-- because you cannot mention everything at the same time; you spoke of Foucault-- is Derrida's essay called Geschlecht, with the subtitle Ontological Difference and Sexual Difference. Because what Derrida says, in fact, is a very-- it's one of his texts that I find most exciting and important. He says if you look at the reasons why Heidegger rejects the idea that philosophy should be a philosophical anthropology, this is entirely linked to the question of the neutrality of the design from the point of view of gender or sexual difference. So as soon as you bring back this question, and you show that, in fact, of course, Heidegger's claim to neutrality is a form of displacement or a repression, in fact the question of the difference or alleged difference between a transcendental discourse and an anthropological discourse returns into the center. So I'm completely dependent on that history, and of course, OK. Thank you very much. Did you want to comment on this, because I would also love to hear what you have to say about this. In other words, if you take-- I'm just adding a kind of question to this question that's on the table already-- are race and gender equally problematic from the standpoint that Etienne just raised. Yes, because of course Kant says that women cannot be active citizens but only passive citizens. And the question then becomes, OK, you've shown here are these sexist and racist views. So what? What follows? Can't we just continue using the theory. So the [INAUDIBLE] response, one is that to say you know what the theory is really begs the question, because you're presupposing the [INAUDIBLE] Kant where person extends in a sort of neutral and gender-inclusive and racial-inclusive way. The response to that is well, OK, even if it doesn't, we can then do that extension. And I think the answer to that question is, is it more philosophically fruitful to ask the question what does the principle of respect for others require in a world where the majority of the human population have not had their personhood recognized? So that's the kind of line of argument I'm taking. I'm not saying we throw away Kant or anything as silly as that. I'm just saying, insofar as Kant-- Robert Louden has a book called Kant's Impure Ethics, and he argues that impure ethics is applied through Kant's impure ethics. So if you think of impure ethics, not for Kant but for all [INAUDIBLE] reconstruction of Kant, as including a sub-person population. [INAUDIBLE] mentioned sub-persons. So, female sub-persons, racial sub-persons. What are the distinctive duties persons now have to sub-persons in order to bring about genuine gender and racial equality, as against a nominally colorblind and gender-blind concept of personhood, which just abstracts away from those differences in an unhelpful way rather than addressing them? So this is part of my whole agenda of sort of shift discourse to non-ID theory, and then corrective justice. Yes, Jacques, but I think that [INAUDIBLE] has shown something else, which I find very interesting. Because if you read Kant's Pragmatic Anthropology, essentially it's a kind of pedagogic project at the scale of world history and the history humanity. So of course there's absolutely no doubt that the Anthropology is a kind of compendium of every sort of bourgeois, sexist, racist, et cetera prejudices. And of course people who believe that Kant is, in the sense, not only the theorist of equality but the theorist of equal dignity are shocked by that. But to go into detail is interesting because there's not only a question of inequality; there's a question of more radical exclusion, which emerges in the following form. So what Kant has in mind is the idea that history in the long run, through its internal and social sociability, et cetera, will make it possible for those inferior creatures-- the [INAUDIBLE] races, the women, et cetera-- start to, in the end, become co-opted, so to speak, into the society of equal. Except for some remainders, and [INAUDIBLE] of course traced this back in the text, in the critical judgment and other places, where Kant explicitly says, unfortunately there are some groups-- the Aborigines in Australia, the Tierra de Fuego [INAUDIBLE]-- who are not really able to enter into the [INTERPOSING VOICES] process. So by nature they're unable to become humans in the first sense. So that seems to be a very small concession, I don't know, to even worse prejudices. But in fact, it's in many cases the key to the idea of progressive integration, and I think that this is [INAUDIBLE] achievement to have brought that into. OK. Let me just say that we have ten minutes and we have two people who are on the list. We have Jay and we have Anne, and we now have Kevin. [INTERPOSING VOICES] But I just want to say one half a sentence, which is it's making me think that maybe we cannot move the level of the citizen as the political subject. But let's leave that and give it to Jay. Or give it to Anne. Let's have all the questions. Good idea. [INTERPOSING VOICES] I actually don't even know where to begin, and in some ways I'm partly speaking to the anthropology students here. They would not recognize the anthropology that we're using this term for. The anthropology that is being used here is nothing that would be recognizable in any way. And as you know, the history of anthropology is a history not of a timescale; it's without history. Its raison d'etre was to create something that's a sort of ethnographic present. But what's interesting when you say that anthropological difference is constituted by politics, in a way, it seems what's going on in anthropology now is that politics is constituted by the struggle over what is an anthropological difference that matters. And when you were talking about anthropological differences, I really loved what you were doing, Bruce. But I also didn't recognize it because I didn't know what differences were actually at stake and which ones were-- it was sort of a given what you were talking about that we should all know what those differences were. I was also really concerned and interested in this notion that the temporality of politics is the temporality of the present. And it seems as if we look at those differences, those anthropological differences that you're talking about that matter, actually so many struggles are around history and not about the present at all. And so I was really confused. If we look at Standing Rock, we look at anywhere we want. It's not about the present, and I think there's something really myopic in us imagining that politics is located at this moment in this now. So I'd just love-- [INAUDIBLE] That politics is the temporality of the present. I would actually argue the exact opposite. I'd argue that it's about multiple temporalities that are at issue, and that are impinging in very different ways on Palestinians versus others, and that that is what we don't seem to be getting a hold of. Or on people whose families were former slaves or whatever. We have long, long sets of history that mattered enormously, but that it's not just the temporality of the present that the temporality politics can occupy. Great. Jay, you're next for two minutes, about. And then Kevin for one minute, and then answers from the panel. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Please let me [INTERPOSING VOICES]. So I was trying to find the argument about comparative [INAUDIBLE], and surprised because that's not how I understand Balibar. I thought the [INAUDIBLE] of anthropological differences was that the first problem is that having equal rights cannot mean the same right, because if everyone has the same right, it ignores fundamental differences. It ignores history. So the first thing is I thought it had to do with some sort of intervention into a situation of what would it be to acknowledge equality where equality does not mean the same. And I took the thought of anthropological revolution, that Etienne proposed, as asking the question of what would count as the provision of rights necessary for human dignity that would be answerable to those particular claims without erasing the specificity of differences. And he wanted to claim that it was [INAUDIBLE] because it cannot have a formal answer. It can only have an inventive answer, and I understood, and the reason I want to push it was I thought that's just what Charles was arguing against Rawls about what he thinks corrective justice would be, for example. And it seems to me that that's a-- I didn't hear your problem with his text, and I guess I want to hear-- maybe you can convince me there's a problem I'm not hearing, or does the notion of anthropological revolution, which I take to be rights are going to be the mechanism of equalization, even if they are not the same for everyone. Even though we have to have equal rights, right? That's why [INAUDIBLE]. And let's start with Patrice. Yeah, I just want to make a short suggestion about the question, where those universalisms might meet. And my suggestion is very simple. It would be the Earth. The Earth. And the Earth is actually a concept that is rather absent in Etienne's work, but we have concepts that play that role or approach that function. And one is the notion of globality. So, globality is not the same as universality, and going global might actually mean finding ways by which we can negotiate between different universalisms. And it's not that we could; it's that actually we have to because there is only one planet. That's what global means, just one, and we are within this one thing. I'm going to have to cut you here-- And the second word is wilt. Globality and wilt. We have two minutes for the three people to respond. [INAUDIBLE] Bruce, you're up. If I tell you I'll meet you at 5:00 on the Earth, we're not likely to get together. [INTERPOSING VOICES] You really need to specify, and that's why, at least institutionally. I agree with you completely that there are global pressures which are making forms of planetary solidarity much more likely. And we haven't seen those operate nearly enough yet, but I have some hopes for solidarity at a planetary level, in part because the penny is dropping in enough places. So on that level, I will accept the Earth as a meeting place. But otherwise I do think we need addresses, something [INAUDIBLE]. Jay. So, I don't read equal liberty as at all corresponding to your idea of rights, extremely differentiated ones. But I think you're reading it wrong. I see it as very, very universalist. Oh. I'm sorry. I was just getting there. Do you want me to talk now? [INTERPOSING VOICES] It's going to be a late night. All right. That's all I have time for. I also don't see Etienne doing the comparative thing, and I thought, it's such a bad idea for me to do it, partly because you won't like it, and he doesn't really do it, so I was just tugging him gently in that direction, bringing things out that I think are there under the surface but that he hasn't wanted to say, I haven't wanted to say, but I thought might be worth taking the occasion to say. I have actually a lot to say about politics and the present. The first thing is that you are right, of course, that a lot of the great political issues are issues over history. I have very mixed feelings over presentism as a historical, and anecdotes to tell about the difficulties getting people to see reparations as a political issue, for example, because I wasn't there and the people that I would be giving the money to also weren't there. And there's a collective identification over time which it is very, very hard to make anybody accept. Now, I try, myself, but I'm partly, when talking about presentism like this, I'm recognizing a major barrier and a much greater success rate if one can post things in the present. So, reparations for slavery? Well, redlining in the present. You talk about redlining as a heritage that is right here in front of you right now, and it seems to me you do better. Judith probably doesn't want to say anything, but when you said which differences do you mean under great, and they're wonderful. There are at least two different lists. The difference between the lists is interesting. I think race and gender get onto both, but one of them has intelligence and abnormality, and another doesn't have intelligence. And I point over to Judith, although like I said, she probably doesn't want to say anything, because she had this wonderful riff on the et cetera when you stop making the lists. She is the first person and the best person-- But you all seem to take it for granted, in a way, that you all knew what this anthropological difference was, and that you could move on from there. The hidden one, with which I have most difficulties [INAUDIBLE] is adult versus child. What? Adult versus child. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked to the end of the day. [APPLAUSE] 