 There's no question that collaboration technologies have become a huge part of the way we work, whether through using Skype, Slack, Spark, Microsoft Teams - there are so many options out there that basically allow us to do our chat, do our video, do our audio and we do it all in one application across mobile and desktop and all the different mixed workplace environments that we use every day. But one of the rapidly emerging technologies, artificial intelligence, that has come into play is really changing the way collaboration takes place. We've seen it happen already with chatbots, with them being able to quickly provide response, customer service, search through our files and customer databases to allow us to collaborate more effectively. But, one of the things that still lacks with chatbots is their flexibility, their functionality, how much can they really do and if they're not intuitive and they don't allow people to engage with them naturally then people tend to be turned off by the use of these chatbots which are basically our entry level AI. So this past few weeks Cisco finished the acquisition of a company called Mindmeld and Mindmeld is all about conversational based AI integration and collaboration. So, think about the way we do search, right? Everybody remembers when you did search early on in the days of You could search a couple keywords and often times what came back to you was not exactly what you were hoping for and then, as Google advanced Google got better about it. They simplified the search engine and then they added the whole concept of semantic search and with semantic search we could basically type a question in full into the search box and get a response that was much more accurate and much more detailed right? You're not just looking for 'good steak Chicago' you're saying 'Where can I get a good steak in Chicago?" and it could pick up on what you were doing. You've seen advances of this with our pocket based AI in Siri or in our Android applications and now what we're going to start to see in our collaboration apps is the ability for a company to create chat based interfaces that are much smarter, that use intelligence to really allow people to believe that they're not having a conversation with a bot but with a real, compassionate, empathetic human being. So, what Cisco's doing with the application and integration of Mindmeld into their Spark environment is basically allowing chat to take place with between AI and humans that will be much much more useful, much more collaborative and much more valuable. So I'm very excited and interested to see what they're doing with this acquisition that Cisco made of Mindmeld. I think adding a intuitive chat based type of conversation inside of our collaboration tool is something people are really going to use so long as the conversation truly does feel and act like that that would take place between humans. So, check it out, check out what Mindmeld's doing and check out Cisco Spark. It's a great marriage. It's something I expect to see more and more inside of the collaboration environments as we move into an age where artificial intelligence is part of everything that we do. 