 How can digital tools help you increase customer satisfaction and sales performance? Most insurance customers face some challenges when their policies’ anniversaries are approaching. They want to change covers or optimize investments. They meet their agents and fill in a lot of paper forms. After some time, they notice they have no mail confirming changes. They contact Head Quarters, but learn that some papers are still missing. Their agents suggest using the customer portal, but it turns out that they don’t have enough access rights for investment fund changes. They have to fill in and send more papers to get the access. So, all in all, it takes them almost 2 months to get things done. Sounds pretty familiar, doesn’t it? However, sales people also face some challenges during the sales process. They must deal with a lot of paper forms, and they have numerous applications and portals to work with. However, there is usually too much software with unfriendly interfaces and no access to all up-to-date information about customers in one place. It is hard to provide the highest quality of service in such a case. And finally, at the end of the sales process, when they get their commissions, they usually don’t know how the amount is calculated. So what insurance companies should do? The answer is - implement digital tools for sales force and customers. Let’s focus on the sales tools - as it can be seen on the diagram - face to face meetings with agents and brokers, as well as contacting call centers are currently the most popular touchpoints for customers. They prefer contact with insurers via these channels, so let’s support sales people in these areas. There are 3 types of IT systems for supporting sales force. First one is the Configure, Price, Quote solution which allows calculations of premiums according to the specific algorithms. Thanks to this software type, sales people can easily estimate an individual price of the insurance policy for each customer. Next is the Sales Force Automation solution which includes the features to manage the customer and prospects at the beginning of the sales process. Customer Relationship Management solutions are the most comprehensive ones, they usually cover 5 main areas: sales, marketing, e-commerce, customer service, and field service. They provide numerous features, so insurance companies sometimes select only a mix of them according to their needs. Generally, the aim for any insurance company should be to implement the end-to-end sales ecosystem. Why is it important? The research on the group of more than 400 insurers worldwide shows that 66% of them find digital tools for their sales teams and distribution management essential. The questions is how these digital tools should be? According to the researches and reports 4 main features can be selected. They should be omnichannel, mobile, customer-focused and of a great user experience. Why are all these aspects are so important? Let’s look at this diagram showing the ways of communication preferred by customers in contact with their insurance company. Most customers prefer a physical channel, which means face to face meetings with sales people. 34% select hybrid type communication when physical channel is complemented with phone, e-mail or standard mail. Only 8% of customers choose direct contact with the insurer via phone, e-mail or standard mail only. That proves the agents and brokers are still crucial, however, to be effective, they should meet the customer’s new preferences. How? The answer is - the omnichannel strategy. Solutions for insurance sales must be omnichannel: they must integrate all channels, collect all necessary data from all users, gather all customer information in one 360-degree view. They must also allow continuing the sales process regardless of the communication channel selected by the user. According to Gartner’s reports, personal data and the history of communication with customers are nowadays poorly documented or not documented at all. Forecasts say, however, that the number of manual data entry will be reduced by 50% by 2018. How is it possible? The answer is - mobile applications. Thanks to them, sales teams are able to enter the data faster and easier, anywhere and at any time Customer centricity is another essential feature for digital tools. The research confirms that the majority of insurers worldwide consider a customer-focused model, needs-based selling, and data analytics to be important. In practice it means that sales people must have access to the knowledge base, customer needs analyses and be able to flexibly modify offers to provide professional customer advisory. The last feature is User Experience. We are all customers. Sales people too. In their private lives, they use mobile devices, and common applications like Facebook, Instagram, Uber, and Airbnb. They expect the same quality in their work. They expect digital tools with a great look, a great feel and a great usability. Research confirms the benefits of high quality user experience. For example, the Oracle company reduced the time of performing task by their users thanks to better architecture of information by 20%. User friendly interfaces can also decrease sales force turnover and improve the employees’ satisfaction and motivation. Talking about satisfaction and motivation. Another essential factor for sales team are incentives – they should also be efficiently automated. How is incentive compensation managed today in the financial sector organizations? Mostly manually or in excel. Not automated incentive compensation management is prone to errors. Only 36% of organizations use dedicated I.C.M. solutions – in-house or commercial. Manual incentive compensation management equals loss of sales due to the huge number of errors in calculations & settlements, as well as related complaints to be processed. Time is wasted on non-business generating activities both by back office & sales forces. Incentive Compensation Management digital tools offer automated commission calculations & settlements, as well as efficient sales network structure management that is the base for incentive programs. They also increase back office effectiveness & accuracy, ensuring sales people proper motivational compensation, triggering higher performance. According to Gartner, thanks to the implementation of ICM solutions, the number of errors in calculations decreases significantly by 90% and the time wasted on all related issues by all involved people is cut by 50%. Sales reps who spend less time on analyzing & explaining their compensation documents, can focus on their main activity and are, therefore, better motivated. Thus, the overall sales level can rise by 10%. Let’s sum up all the benefits from digital tools. Satisfaction means not only the sales people satisfaction but also customer satisfaction, thanks to applying the customer-centricity model and higher quality of service. Digital tools allow saving time, so productivity is improved and overall performance is higher. Thus, the insurance company gets higher profit. As research from other industries confirms - companies which implemented digital tools for their sales force - experience significant benefits, like reduction of time spent on administrative task by 14%, spent on the quote by 15% and the general increase of the customer buying power by 26%. In the digital era, when the business world announces digital revolution, all insurance companies should think about implementation of powerful digital tools to stay competitive. Such tools make their needs better fulfilled, empowering sales and boosting their performance. Don’t let others get ahead of you. Automate your sales comprehensively. 