BusinessOverviewJuniper Networks designs, develops and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility and improved operating efficiency through automation. We sell our products in more than 150 countries in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa, which we refer to as EMEA; and Asia Pacific, which we refer to as APAC. We organize and manage our business by major functional departments on a consolidated basis as one operating segment. We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings across routing, switching, and security technologies. In addition to our products, we offer our customers services, including maintenance and support, professional services, and education and training programs. Our products and services address high-performance network requirements for our customers within our verticals: Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise who view the network as critical to their success. We believe our silicon, systems, and software represent innovations that transform the economics and experience of networking, helping our customers achieve superior performance, greater choice, and flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership. Further, we intend to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment. Our acquisition of Mist Systems, or Mist, in 2019 accelerated our ability to execute this belief in cloud-managed, artificial intelligence, or AI-enabled enterprise networking operations through a combination of cloud-based intelligence, enterprise-grade access points, and EX series switches. Machine learning technology simplifies wireless and wired operations and delivers a more agile cloud services platform.We were incorporated in California in 1996 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1998. Our corporate headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.juniper.net.StrategyWe deliver highly scalable, reliable, secure, and cost-effective networks, while transforming the network's agility, efficiency, and value through automation. We believe the network needs for our customers in our Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise verticals are converging as these customers recognize the need for high-performance networks and are adopting cloud architectures for their infrastructure and service delivery, such as large public and private data centers and service provider edge data centers, for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. We believe this industry trend presents an opportunity for Juniper Networks, and we have focused our strategy on enabling our customers' transition to cloud architectures through the following strategic priorities: 3Table of ContentsPower Public and Private Cloud Data CentersWe are focused on continuing to power public and private cloud data centers with high performance infrastructure. These data centers are the core of cloud transformation by enabling service delivery in a multicloud environment, which is a combination of public cloud, private cloud, and Software-as-a-Service, or SaaS delivery. We are a recognized leader in data center networking innovation in both software and hardware solutions. Our Junos Operating System, or Junos OS, application-specific integrated circuits, or ASIC, technology, and management and automation software investments across routing, switching, and security will continue to be key elements to maintaining our technology leadership and transforming the economics and experience of our public and private cloud customers. In 2019, we introduced our next-generation operating system, Junos OS Evolved. It has the same command-line interface, the same applications and features, the same management and automation tools as Junos OS, but its infrastructure is entirely modernized, which enables higher availability, accelerated deployment, greater innovation and improved operational efficiencies.Our Contrail Networking provides dynamic end-to-end networking policy and control for any cloud, any workload, and any deployment, from a single user interface. It translates abstract workflows into specific policies, simplifying the orchestration of virtual overlay connectivity across all environments.Connect Users and Devices Securely to the Cloud and to Each OtherIn developing our solutions, we strive to design and build best-in-class products and solutions for core, edge, and metro networking infrastructure for connecting user and devices securely to the cloud and to each other. Cloud providers and Service Providers have deployed our product offerings in their wide area networks, or WAN, such as our highly efficient Internet Protocol, or IP, transport PTX product which can cost effectively manage incredible capacity from their end users to the data centers from which they deliver value to those customers. We also offer a robust portfolio of software-defined networking, or SDN-enabled MX series routing platforms that provide system capacity, density, security, and performance with longevity. MX Series routers are the key to digital transformation for Service Providers, Cloud providers, and Enterprises in the cloud era. Our SDN Controller for the WAN, NorthStar enables granular visibility and control of IP/Multiprotocol Label Switching, or IP/MPLS flows for large networks. We are committed to continued investment in cost effective and high-performance IP transport platforms and automation software, which forms the basis of these high-performance networks.Build and Manage Distributed CloudsOur Service Provider customers are investing in the build-out of high-performance networks and the transformation of existing legacy infrastructure to distributed cloud environments, which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications and services closer to end users, such as enabling managed security and low-latency applications. We are committed to this transformation as our Service Provider customers rearchitect their infrastructure to enable next generation mobile network build-outs, or 5G, and Internet of Things, or IoT, service delivery close to their end users. We believe our history of experience in both cloud and WAN architecture positions us well to partner with our Service Provider customers in their strategic transformation initiatives. Our Enterprise customers are moving services from their enterprise edge to the distributed edge. We believe the next generation of WAN for Enterprises is about rearchitecting to metro-based cloud hubs that can also host routing and security services, transform costs, and provide cloud performance.Cloud-Delivered EnterpriseEnterprises are consuming more value-as-a-service, where value is delivered in the form of cloud-based software and services. We have introduced cloud management and security products which enable enterprises to consume cloud infrastructure and services securely. We believe the transition to SaaS presents an opportunity for Juniper to come to market with innovative network and security solutions for our Enterprise customers, which facilitate their transition to cloud architectures.We believe our understanding of high-performance networking technology, cloud architecture, and our strategy, positions us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks. Our acquisition of Mist in 2019 accelerated our ability to execute this belief in cloud-managed AI-enabled enterprise networking operations.Customer Verticals We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings through direct sales; distributors; value-added resellers, or VARs; and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, to end-users in the following verticals: Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise. 4Table of ContentsFurther, we believe our networking infrastructure offerings benefit our key customers by: •Reducing capital and operational costs by running multiple services over the same network using our secure, high density, highly automated, and highly reliable platforms;•Creating new or additional revenue opportunities by enabling new services to be offered to new market segments, which includes existing customers and new customers, based on our product capabilities;•Increasing customer satisfaction, while lowering costs, by enabling customers to self-select automatically provisioned service packages that provide the quality, speed, and pricing they desire; •Providing increased asset longevity and higher return on investment as our customers' networks can scale to higher throughput based on the capabilities of our platforms;•Offering network security across every environment—from the data center to campus and branch environments to assist in the protection and recovery of services and applications; and•Offering operational improvements that enable cost reductions, including lower administrative, training, customer care, and labor costs.The following is an overview of the trends affecting the market in which we operate by each of our customer verticals. We believe the networking needs for each of our customers will eventually result in cloud-based network architectures for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency.CloudOur Cloud vertical includes companies that are heavily reliant on the cloud for their business model’s success. Customers in the Cloud vertical can include cloud service providers, such as the largest public cloud providers, which we refer to as hyperscalers, and Tier-2 cloud providers, as well as enterprises that provide SaaS; infrastructure-as-a-service; or platform-as-a-service. Cloud providers continue to grow as more organizations take advantage of public infrastructure to run their business. As their businesses grow, we expect they will continue to invest in their networks, which dictates the quality and experience of the products and the services they deliver to their end-customers. Further, as cloud providers begin to early adopt new network technologies, such as the transition to 400-gigabit Ethernet, or 400GbE, this should present further opportunities for Juniper across our portfolio as our cloud customers value high-performance, highly compact, power efficient infrastructures, which we support and continue to develop. In addition, SaaS continues to be an important factor for cloud providers as their customers, such as enterprises, prefer to consume and procure product and service offerings via SaaS models. As a result, we believe that SaaS providers will invest in high performance infrastructure because the quality of experience has proven just as important competitively as software features and functions. Lastly, as a result of new regulations and the need for lower latency and high-performance networking, cloud providers are transitioning to regional network build-outs or distributed cloud environments to address the increasing demand for services, data privacy, data protection, and consumer rights. As Cloud customers are pushing the envelope in networking, our focus on collaboration combined with networking innovation around automation has made us a strategic partner with these customers, helping them develop high-performance and lower total cost of ownership networking solutions to support their business. Service ProviderOur Service Provider vertical includes wireline and wireless carriers and cable operators, and we support most of the major carrier and operator networks in the world with our high-performance network infrastructure offerings. In recent years, we have seen increased convergence of these different types of customers through acquisitions, mergers, and partnerships.  5Table of ContentsService Provider customers recognize the need for high-performance networks and leveraging the cloud to reduce costs from their network operations. This is dictating a change in business models and their underlying infrastructure, which we believe requires investment in the build-out of high-performance networks and the transformation of existing legacy infrastructure to distributed cloud environments in order to satisfy the growth in mobile traffic and video as a result of the increase in mobile device usage including smartphones, tablets, and connected devices of various kinds.We expect that Network Function Virtualization, or NFV, and SDN, will be critical elements to enable our Service Provider customers the flexibility to support enhanced mobile video and dynamic new service deployments. We are engaging with these customers to transition their operations to essentially next-generation cloud operations as the need for a highly efficient infrastructure to handle large amounts of data along with low latency, or minimal delay, plays into the need to have a high performance, scalable infrastructure in combination with the automation and flexibility required to drive down operational costs and rapidly provision applications. We consistently deliver leading technologies that transform the economics and experience of networking-significantly improving customer economics by lowering the capital expenditures required to build networks and the operating expenses required to manage and maintain them.In addition to reducing operating costs, Service Providers are seeking to create new or additional revenue opportunities to support their evolving business models. These customers are preparing for 5G, which we expect to begin to occur over the next few years, and IoT, which we believe will give rise to new services like connected cars, smart cities, robotic manufacturing, and agricultural transformation. 5G and IoT will require a highly distributed cloud data center architecture from which services are delivered to the end users and will involve a great degree of analytics and embedded security. We expect this trend will present further opportunities for Juniper with our focus on delivering a strong portfolio of network virtualization and software-based orchestration solutions, which position us to deliver on the automation and agility requirements needs of Service Providers. EnterpriseOur high-performance network infrastructure offerings are designed to meet the performance, reliability, and security requirements of the world's most demanding enterprises. We offer enterprise solutions and services for data centers as well as branch and campus applications. Our Enterprise vertical includes enterprises not included in the Cloud vertical. In particular, they are industries with high performance, high agility requirements, including financial services; national, federal, state, and local governments; as well as research and educational institutions. We believe that our Enterprise customers are able to deploy our solutions as a powerful component in delivering the advanced network capabilities needed for their leading-edge applications. We believe that as our Enterprise customers continue to transition their workloads to the cloud, they continue to seek greater flexibility in how they consume networking and security services, such as pay-per-use models. Additionally, Enterprises are deploying multicloud architectures which require end-to-end solutions for managing, orchestrating, and securing distributed cloud resources as a single pool of resources. Also, we are increasingly seeing a convergence of networking and security, resulting in security becoming an embedded capability in each and every solution that we offer to our customers. High-performance enterprises require IP networks that are global, distributed, and always available. We are innovating in key technology areas to meet the needs of our Enterprise customers whether they plan to move to a public cloud architecture or hybrid cloud architecture (which is a mix of public and private cloud, as well as a growing number of SaaS applications). In 2019, 2018, and 2017, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues.Products, Services, and TechnologyEarly in our history, we developed, marketed, and sold the first commercially available purpose-built IP backbone router optimized for the specific high-performance requirements of telecom and cable operators. As the need for core bandwidth continued to increase, the need for service-rich platforms at the edge of the network was created. We have expanded our portfolio to address multiple domains in the network: core; edge; access and aggregation; data centers; and campus and branch. We have systematically focused on how we innovate in silicon, systems, and software (including our Junos OS and virtual network functions, or VNF) such as firewall, network orchestration, and automation to provide a range of hardware and software solutions in high-performance, secure networking. We have invested in the development of silicon photonics to provide our customers with performance programmability, and streaming telemetry while driving down the cost per bit.Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals, flexibility in consumption and deployment. Our software offerings include subscriptions, SaaS, and perpetual licenses. We believe our software and related services revenues as  6Table of Contentsa percentage of total revenues will increase over time as we introduce new software solutions designed to better monetize the value of software functionality in our offerings. Significant Product Development Projects and SolutionsIn 2019, we continued to execute on our product and solutions strategy and announced several new innovations, including metro, edge, and core innovations to accelerate Service Providers’ 5G transformation. Our Metro Fabric line expansion includes one and three rack unit ACX700 Universal Metro Routers. We announced a new edge MPC11E line card in the MX2000 Series 5G Universal Routing Platform, delivering an increase in line card and system capacity using our Penta Silicon chip. We also announced our new Triton Silicon enabling end-to-end secure connectivity at scale with 400GbE, native Media Access Control Security that will be used in the PTX10008 and PTX10016 Universal Chassis. These new solutions will help service providers with their infrastructure transformation to 5G.Also, we introduced our next-generation operating system, Junos OS Evolved. It has the same command-line interface, the same applications and features, the same management and automation tools as Junos OS, but its infrastructure is entirely modernized, which enables higher availability, accelerated deployment, greater innovation and improved operational efficiencies.Moreover, we announced a cloud-managed version of our SD-WAN solution. Our Contrail Service Orchestration now gives enterprises a simple way to manage and secure their WAN infrastructure and Branch LAN and Wi-Fi networks. We also released our PTX10003 router, and our QFX5220 switch, which are both 400GbE ready.The following is an overview of our principal product families and service offerings in 2019: Routing Products•ACX Series: Our ACX Series Universal Access Routers cost-effectively address current operator challenges to rapidly deploy new high-bandwidth services. The ACX Series is well positioned to address the growing metro Ethernet and mobile backhaul needs of our customers, as we expect 5G mobile network build-outs to begin to occur over the next few years. The platforms deliver the necessary scale and performance needed to support multi-generation wireless technologies.•MX Series: Our MX Series is a family of high-performance, SDN-ready, Ethernet routers that function as a Universal Edge platform with high system capacity, density, and performance. The MX Series platforms utilize our custom silicon and provide carrier-class performance, scale, and reliability to support large-scale Ethernet deployments. We also offer the vMX, a virtual version of the MX router, which is a fully featured MX Series 3D Universal Edge Router optimized to run as software on x86 servers. •PTX Series: Our PTX Series Packet Transport Routers deliver high throughput at a low cost per bit, optimized for the Service Provider core as well as the scale-out architectures of Cloud Providers. The PTX Series is built on our custom silicon and utilizes a forwarding architecture that is focused on optimizing IP/MPLS, and Ethernet. This ensures high density and scalability, high availability, and network simplification.•Cloud Customer Premises Equipment, or CPE, Solution: Our Cloud CPE is a fully automated, end-to-end NFV solution that builds on Juniper Networks Contrail Networking and supports cloud-based and premises-based VNFs. This solution includes Contrail Service Orchestration, a comprehensive management and orchestration platform that delivers and manages virtualized network services such as virtual security, and the NFX security family, a network services platform that can operate as a secure, on-premises device running software defined WAN, or SD-WAN, and multiple virtual services, from Juniper and third parties, simultaneously. •NorthStar Controller: Our wide-area network SDN controller automates the creation of traffic-engineering paths across the network, increasing network utilization and enabling a customized programmable networking experience.Switching Products•EX Series: Our EX Series Ethernet switches address the access, aggregation, and core layer switching requirements of micro branch, branch office, and campus environments, providing a foundation for the fast, secure, and reliable delivery of applications able to support strategic business processes. 7Table of Contents•QFX Series: Our QFX Series of core, spine and top-of-rack data center switches offer a revolutionary approach to switching that are designed to deliver dramatic improvements in data center performance, operating costs, and business agility for enterprises, high-performance computing networks, and cloud providers.•Mist Access Points: Our access points provide wireless access and performance, which is automatically optimized through reinforcement learning algorithms. Our access points have a dynamic virtual Bluetooth low energy element antenna array for accurate and scalable location services.Security Products•SRX Series Services Gateways for the Data Center and Network Backbone: Our mid-range, high-end and virtual SRX Series platforms provide high-performance, scalability, and service integration, which are ideally suited for medium to large enterprise, data centers and large campus environments where scalability, high performance, and concurrent services, are essential. Our high-end SRX5800 platform is suited for service provider, large enterprise, and public sector networks. The upgrade to our high-end SRX firewall offering with our Services Process Card 3, or SPC3, with our Advanced Security Acceleration line card enhances the SRX5800 to deliver power for demanding use cases, including high-end data centers, IoT, and 5G.•Branch SRX, Security Policy and Management: The Branch SRX family provides an integrated firewall and next-generation firewall, or NGFW, capabilities. Security Director is a network security management product that offers efficient, highly scalable, and comprehensive network security policy management. These solutions are designed to enable organizations to securely, reliably, and economically deliver powerful new services and applications to all locations and users with superior service quality. •Virtual Firewall: Our vSRX Firewall delivers all of the features of our physical firewalls, including NGFW functionality, advanced security, and automated lifecycle management capabilities. The vSRX provides scalable, secure protection across private, public, and hybrid clouds. We also offer the cSRX which has been designed and optimized for container and cloud environments.•Advanced Malware Protection: Our Advanced Threat Prevention portfolio consists of Sky ATP, a cloud-based service and Juniper ATP, or JATP, a premises-based solution. These products are designed to use both static and dynamic analysis with machine learning to find unknown threat signatures (zero-day attacks).ServicesIn addition to our products, we offer maintenance and support, professional, and educational services. We utilize a multi-tiered support model to deliver services that leverage the capabilities of our own direct resources, channels partners, and other third-party organizations.  We also train our channel partners in the delivery of support, professional, and educational services to ensure these services can be locally delivered. As of December 31, 2019, we employed 1,802 people in our worldwide customer service and support organization. We believe that a broad range of services is essential to the successful customer deployment and ongoing support of our products, and we employ remote technical support engineers, on-site resident engineers, spare parts planning and logistics staff, professional services consultants, and educators with proven network experience to provide those services. Platform Strategy In addition to our major product families and services, our software portfolio has been a key technology element in our goal to be a leader in high-performance networking. Our Junos Platform enables our customers to expand network software into the application space, deploy software clients to control delivery, and accelerate the pace of innovation with an ecosystem of developers. At the heart of the Junos Platform is Junos OS Evolved. We believe Junos OS Evolved is fundamentally differentiated from other network operating systems not only in its design, but also in its development capabilities. The advantages of Junos OS Evolved include: •A modular operating system with common base of code and a single, consistent implementation for each control plane feature; 8Table of Contents•A highly disciplined and firmly scheduled development process;•A common modular software architecture that scales across all Junos-based platforms;•A central database which is used by not only Junos native applications but also external applications using application programming interfaces, or API's; and•A fully distributed general-purpose software infrastructure that leverages all the compute resources on the network element.Junos OS Evolved is designed to improve the availability, performance, and security of business applications running across the network. Junos OS Evolved helps to automate network operations by providing a single consistent implementation of features across the network in a single release train that seeks to minimize the complexity, cost, and risk associated with implementing network features and upgrades.Orchestration and MonitoringAs many of our customers continue moving to programmable and automated network operations, managing, orchestrating, and securing that complex journey can be a challenge. Network automation is the process of automating the configuration, management, testing, deployment, and operations of physical and virtual devices within a network. We believe the keys to achieving success with network and security automation includes:•Architecting networking systems with strong APIs, analytics, and autonomous control; and•Automating operations to become more reliable in the context of IT systems, teams, processes, and network operation and security operation workflows.We are committed to providing solutions to help our customers to optimize their programmable and automated networking operations with the following offerings:•Contrail: Our Contrail Networking and Contrail Cloud Platform offer an open-source, standards-based platform for SDN and NFV. This platform enables our customers to address their key problems in the area of network automation, agility, and time-to-service deployment by providing a mechanism to virtualize the network over any physical network and automating the provisioning and management of networking services (such as security and load balancing). Contrail Enterprise Multicloud and Contrail Edge Cloud provide packaged solutions designed for Enterprise multicloud and Service Provider Edge environments, respectively. Contrail’s approach is to support multiple cloud and hardware vendors, various types of workloads, and both existing and new deployments.•Contrail Insights: Contrail Insights (formerly known as AppFormix) is an optimization and management software platform for public, private, and hybrid clouds. This intent-driven software manages automated operations, visibility, and reporting in cloud and NFV use cases. It features machine learning-based policy and smart monitors, application and software-defined infrastructure analytics, and alarms to provide comprehensive visualization, smart analytics, and the ability to manage automatic remediation for service assurance.•Marvis Actions and AI-driven Virtual Network Assistant: Our Marvis Actions and AI-driven Virtual Network Assistant identifies the root cause of issues across the information technology, or IT, domains and automatically resolves many issues. It recommends actions for those connected systems outside of the Mist domain, while offering a real-time network health dashboard that reports issues from configuration to troubleshooting.Research and Development We have assembled a team of skilled engineers with extensive experience in the fields of high-end computing, network system design, ASIC design, security, routing protocols, software applications and platforms, and embedded operating systems. As of December 31, 2019, we employed 3,777 people in our worldwide research and development, or R&D, organization. We believe that strong product development capabilities are essential to our strategy of enhancing our core technology, developing additional applications, integrating that technology, and maintaining the competitiveness and innovation of our product and service offerings. In our products, we are leveraging our software, ASIC and systems technology, developing additional network interfaces  9Table of Contentstargeted to our customers' applications, and continuing to develop technology to support the build-out of secure high-performance networks and cloud environments. We continue to expand the functionality of our products to improve performance, reliability and scalability, and provide an enhanced user interface. Our R&D process is driven by our corporate strategy and the availability of new technology, market demand, and customer feedback. We have invested significant time and resources in creating a structured process for all product development projects. Following an assessment of market demand, our R&D team develops a full set of comprehensive functional product specifications based on inputs from the product management and sales organizations. This process is designed to provide a framework for defining and addressing the steps, tasks, and activities required to bring product concepts and development projects to market.Sales and Marketing As of December 31, 2019, we employed 2,704 people in our worldwide sales and marketing organization. These sales and marketing employees operate in different locations around the world in support of our customers. Our sales organization, with its structure of sales professionals, business development teams, systems engineers, marketing teams, channel teams, and an operational infrastructure team, is based on both vertical markets and geographic regions.Our sales teams operate in their respective regions and generally either engage customers directly or manage customer opportunities through our distribution and reseller relationships as described below. We sell to a number of Cloud and Service Provider customers directly. Otherwise, we sell to all of our key customer verticals primarily through distributors and resellers. Direct Sales StructureThe terms and conditions of direct sales arrangements are governed either by customer purchase orders along with acknowledgment of our standard order terms, or by direct master purchase agreements. The direct master purchase agreements with these customers set forth only general terms of sale and generally do not require customers to purchase specified quantities of our products. We directly receive and process customer purchase orders. C