BusinessOverview Juniper Networks designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks, to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility, efficiency and value through automation. We sell our products in more than 150 countries in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa, which we refer to as EMEA; and Asia Pacific, which we refer to as APAC. We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings across routing, switching, and security technologies. In addition to our products, we offer our customers services, including maintenance and support, professional services, and education and training programs. Our products and services address high-performance network requirements for our customers within our verticals: Cloud, Telecom/Cable, and Strategic Enterprise who view the network as critical to their success. A discussion of the types of customers included in our verticals is discussed in the Customer Verticals section below. We believe our silicon, systems, and software represent innovations that transform the economics and experience of networking, helping our customers achieve superior performance, greater choice, and flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership. We were incorporated in California in 1996 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1998. Our corporate headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California. Our website address is www.juniper.net.Strategy We deliver highly scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks, while transforming the network's agility, efficiency and value through automation. We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and networking as a service. We believe the network needs for our customers in our Telecom/Cable and Cloud verticals are converging, as are those of Strategic Enterprises, as all of these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency.As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve. We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology, and our strategy, position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks. 3Table of ContentsMaintain and Extend Technology Leadership We are recognized as a leader in networking innovation in both software and hardware. Our Junos Operating System, or Junos OS, application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, technology, and network-optimized product architecture were key elements to establishing and, we believe, will continue to be key elements to maintaining our technology leadership. Leverage Position as Supplier of High-Performance Network InfrastructureFrom inception, we have focused on designing, developing, and building high-performance network infrastructure for the world's most demanding networking environments. We consistently deliver leading technologies that transform the economics and experience of networking—significantly improving customer economics by lowering the capital expenditures required to build networks and the operating expenses required to manage and maintain them. We believe that many customers will deploy networking equipment from only a few vendors, and that the scale, performance, reliability, and security of our products provides us with a competitive advantage, which is critical to being selected as one of those vendors. Be a Strategic Partner to Our CustomersIn developing our solutions, we work very closely with customers to design and build best-in-class products and solutions specifically designed to meet their complex needs. Over time, we have expanded our understanding of the escalating demands and risks facing our customers, which has enabled us to design additional capabilities into our products. We believe our close relationships with, and constant feedback from, our customers have been key elements in our design wins and rapid deployments to date. We plan to continue to work with our customers to implement product enhancements, as well as to design products that meet the evolving needs of the marketplace, while enabling customers to reduce costs. We are committed to investing in research and development, or R&D, at a level that drives our innovation agenda, enabling us to deliver highly differentiated products and outstanding value to our customers.Establish and Develop Industry PartnershipsOur customers have diverse requirements. Therefore, we believe that it is important that we attract and build relationships with other industry leaders with diverse technologies and services that extend the value of the network to our customers. These partnerships ensure that our customers have access to those technologies and services, whether through technology integration, joint development, resale, or other collaboration, in order to better support a broader set of our customers' requirements. In addition, we believe an open network infrastructure that invites partner innovation provides customers with greater choice and control in meeting their evolving business requirements, while enabling them to reduce costs. Customer VerticalsWe sell our high-performance network products and service offerings through direct sales; distributors; value-added resellers, or VARs; and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs to end-users in the following verticals: Cloud, Telecom/Cable, and Strategic Enterprise. In 2017, we began reporting revenue on these verticals, which we believe better aligns with our business model compared to our previous reporting of revenue by Service Provider and Enterprise. A summary of the types of customers included in our verticals is discussed below. Further, we believe our networking infrastructure offerings benefit our key customers by: •Reducing capital and operational costs by running multiple services over the same network using our secure, high density, highly automated, and highly reliable platforms;•Creating new or additional revenue opportunities by enabling new services to be offered to new market segments, which includes existing customers and new customers, based on our product capabilities;•Increasing customer satisfaction, while lowering costs, by enabling customers to self-select automatically provisioned service packages that provide the quality, speed, and pricing they desire; •Providing increased asset longevity and higher return on investment as our customers' networks can scale to higher throughput based on the capabilities of our platforms;•Offering network security across every environment—from the data center to campus and branch environments to assist in the protection and recovery of services and applications; and 4Table of Contents•Offering operational improvements that enable cost reductions, including lower administrative, training, customer care, and labor costs.CloudOur Cloud vertical includes companies that are heavily reliant on the cloud for their business model’s success. As an example, customers in the Cloud vertical can include cloud service providers as well as enterprises that provide software-as-a-service, or SaaS; infrastructure-as-a-service; or platform-as-a-service. Cloud customers value high-performance, highly compact, power efficient infrastructures which we support and continue to develop. In addition, as these customers are pushing the envelope in networking, our focus on collaboration combined with networking innovation around automation has made us a strategic partner with these Cloud customers, helping them develop high performance and lower total cost of ownership networking solutions to support their business.  Telecom/CableOur Telecom/Cable vertical includes wireline and wireless carriers and cable operators, and we support most of the major carrier and operator networks in the world with our high-performance network infrastructure offerings. In recent years, we have seen increased convergence of these different types of customers through acquisitions, mergers, and partnerships. Telecom/Cable customers are increasingly investing in the build-out of high performance networks and the transformation of existing legacy infrastructure to distributed cloud environments in order to satisfy the growth in mobile traffic and video as a result of the increase in mobile device usage including smartphones, tablets, and connected devices of various kinds.Further, as these customers prepare for next generation mobile network build-outs, or 5G, which we expect to begin to occur over the next few years, as well as create new approaches to delivering value to their enterprise customers, we believe these opportunities will present further opportunities for Juniper across our portfolio. The need for a highly efficient infrastructure to handle large amounts of data along with low latency, or minimal delay, plays into the need to have a high performance, scalable infrastructure in combination with the automation and flexibility required to drive down operational costs and rapidly provision applications. As our Telecom/Cable customers prepare for 5G, we expect that Network Function Virtualization, or NFV, and software-defined networking, or SDN, will be critical elements to enable our customers the flexibility to achieve the business use cases around Internet of Things, or IoT; enhanced mobile video support; and dynamic new service deployments. With our focus on delivering a strong portfolio of network virtualization and software-based orchestration solutions, we believe we will be poised to deliver on the automation and agility requirements needs of the Telecom/Cable vertical. Strategic EnterpriseOur high-performance network infrastructure offerings are designed to meet the performance, reliability, and security requirements of the world's most demanding enterprises. We offer enterprise solutions and services for data centers as well as branch and campus applications. Our Strategic Enterprise vertical includes enterprises not included in the Cloud vertical. In particular, they are industries with high performance, high agility requirements, including financial services; national, federal, state, and local governments; as well as research and educational institutions. We believe that our Strategic Enterprise customers are able to deploy our solutions as a powerful component in delivering the advanced network capabilities needed for their leading-edge applications. Innovation continues to be a critical component in our strategy for the Strategic Enterprise vertical. We believe that as these customers transition their workloads to the cloud, they will seek greater flexibility in how they consume networking and security services. Whether they plan to move to a public cloud or hybrid cloud (which is a mix of public and private cloud, as well as a growing number of SaaS applications) architecture, these are key technology areas where we are innovating. High-performance enterprises require IP networks that are global, distributed, and always available. Network equipment vendors serving these enterprises need to demonstrate performance, reliability, and security with best-in-class open architecture solutions for maximum flexibility. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues. 5Table of ContentsProducts, Services, and Technology Early in our history, we developed, marketed, and sold the first commercially available purpose-built IP backbone router optimized for the specific high-performance requirements of telecom and cable operators. As the need for core bandwidth continued to increase, the need for service-rich platforms at the edge of the network was created. We have expanded our portfolio to address multiple domains in the network: core; edge; access and aggregation; data centers; and campus and branch. We have systematically focused on how we innovate in silicon, systems, and software (including our Junos OS, NFVs (such as firewall), SDN, and automation software) to provide a range of hardware and software solutions in high-performance networking that can solve unique problems for our customers. We conduct business globally and are managed, operated, and organized by major functional departments that operate on a consolidated basis. As a result, we operate in one reportable segment. We are focused on high-performance routing, switching, and security networking products and service offerings. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Report, and Note 13, Segments, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 Part II of this Report, for financial information on our business, including by geographic area. The following is an overview of our major product families and service offerings in 2017: Routing Products•ACX Series: Our ACX Series Universal Access Routers cost-effectively addresses current operator challenges to rapidly deploy new high-bandwidth services. With industry-leading performance of up to 2.56 Terabytes per second, or Tbps, and support for 1 Gigabit Ethernet, or GbE, 10 GbE, and 40GbE interfaces, the ACX Series is well positioned to address the growing metro Ethernet and mobile backhaul needs of our customers. The platforms deliver the necessary scale and performance needed to support multi-generation wireless technologies.•MX Series: Our MX Series is a family of high-performance, SDN-ready, Ethernet routers that function as a Universal Edge platform with high system capacity, density, and performance. Available in both physical and virtual form factors, powerful routing, switching and security features give the MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers unmatched flexibility, versatility, and reliability to support advanced services and applications at the edge of the network. The MX Series platforms utilize our Trio silicon and provide carrier-class performance, scale, and reliability to support large-scale Ethernet deployments. We also offer the vMX, a virtual version of the MX router, which is a fully featured MX Series 3D Universal Edge Router optimized to run as software on x86 servers. •PTX Series: Our PTX Series Packet Transport Routers are designed for the Converged Supercore. The system is the first supercore packet system in the industry, and delivers powerful capabilities based on innovative ExpressPlus silicon and a forwarding architecture that is focused on optimizing IP/multi-protocol label switching, or MPLS, and Ethernet. The PTX is available in four form factors—PTX1000, PTX3000, PTX5000, and PTX 10000 and delivers several critical core functionalities and capabilities, including high density and scalability, cost optimization, high availability, and network simplification. We believe our PTX Series products can readily adapt to today's rapidly changing traffic patterns for video, mobility, and cloud-based services.•Cloud Customer Premises Equipment, or CPE, Solution: Our Cloud CPE is a fully automated, end-to-end NFV solution that builds on Juniper Networks Contrail Networking and supports cloud-based and premises-based virtual network functions, or VNFs. This solution includes Contrail Service Orchestration, a comprehensive management and orchestration platform that delivers and manages virtualized network services such as virtual security, and the NFX250, a network services platform that can operate as a secure, on-premises device running software defined wide area network, or SD WAN, and multiple virtual services, from Juniper and third parties, simultaneously. The NFX250, when used as part of our Cloud CPE solution, reduces the operational complexities associated with deploying multiple boxes at the customer site. •NorthStar Controller: Our wide-area network SDN controller automates the creation of traffic-engineering paths across the network, increasing network utilization and enabling a customized programmable networking experience. With the power of Junos OS; optimization algorithms; and transport abstraction, we believe the NorthStar Controller enables efficient design, bringing new levels of control and visibility to help our customers avoid costly over-provisioning. 6Table of ContentsSwitching Products•EX Series: Our EX Series Ethernet switches address the access, aggregation, and core layer switching requirements of micro branch, branch office, and campus and data center environments, providing a foundation for the fast, secure, and reliable delivery of applications able to support strategic business processes. EX Series enterprise Ethernet switches are designed to deliver operational efficiency, business continuity, and agility, enabling customers to invest in innovative business initiatives that increase revenue and help them gain a competitive advantage. Our EX switches can also serve as security enforcement points as part of our Software-Defined Secure Networks, or SDSN, solution. Our SDSN solution provides end-to-end network visibility that helps secure the entire network, both physical and virtual. •QFX Series: Our QFX Series of core, spine and top-of-rack data center switches offer a revolutionary approach to switching that are designed to deliver dramatic improvements in data center performance, operating costs, and business agility for enterprises, high-performance computing networks, and cloud providers. Our QFX family, including QFX Series Switches (QFX10002, QFX10008, QFX10016, QFX5100, and QFX5200), combined with innovative fabric and high availability software features in Junos OS, enables improvements in speed, scale, and efficiency by removing complexity and improving business agility, and the QFabric System designed to enhance operational control. Our QFX switches can also serve as security enforcement points as part of our SDSN solution.Security Products•SRX Series Services Gateways for the Data Center: Our mid-range, high-end and virtual SRX Series platforms, including the SRX4100 and SRX4200 firewalls, provide high-performance, scalability, and service integration which are ideally suited for medium to large enterprise, data centers and large campus environments where scalability, high performance, and concurrent services, are essential. The SRX Series of both physical and virtual dynamic services gateways provides firewall/VPN, performance and scalability, and includes the AppSecure suite of next-generation security capabilities that is designed to provide visibility, enforcement, control, and protection over the network.•Branch SRX, Security Policy and Management: The Branch SRX family, including the SRX300 Series and SRX1500, provides an integrated firewall and next-generation firewall capabilities. Junos Space Security Director is a network security management product that offers efficient, highly scalable, and comprehensive network security policy management. These solutions are designed to enable organizations to securely, reliably, and economically deliver powerful new services and applications to all locations and users with superior service quality. •Virtual Firewall: Our vSRX Firewall delivers all of the features of our physical firewalls, including the AppSecure next-generation firewall functionality, advanced security, and automated lifecycle management capabilities. The vSRX provides scalable, secure protection across private, public, and hybrid clouds. We also offer the cSRX which has been designed and optimized for container and cloud environments.•Advanced Malware Protection: Sky Advanced Threat Prevention, or Sky ATP, is a cloud-based service that is designed to use both static and dynamic analysis with machine learning to find unknown threat signatures (zero-day attacks). It is integrated with SRX firewalls and secure routers for automated enforcement against threats, providing advanced anti-malware protection to data center, campus and branch environments. In the second half of 2017, we completed the acquisition of Cyphort Inc., or Cyphort, a software company that provides security analytics for advanced threat defense. This acquisition is expected to strengthen the capabilities of Sky ATP by increasing efficiency and performance and providing additional threat detection functionalities and analytics.ServicesIn addition to our products, we offer maintenance and support, professional, and educational services. We deliver these services through our channel partners and directly to end-users and utilize a multi-tiered support model, leveraging the capabilities of our channel partners, and other third-party organizations, as appropriate. We also train our channel partners in the delivery of support, professional, and educational services to ensure these services can be locally delivered. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 1,912 people in our worldwide customer service and support organization. We believe that a broad range of services is essential to the successful customer deployment and ongoing support of our products, and we employ remote technical support engineers, on-site resident engineers, spare parts planning and logistics staff, professional services consultants and educators with proven network experience to provide those services.  7Table of ContentsPlatform Strategy In addition to our major hardware product families and services, our software portfolio has been a key technology element in our goal to be a leader in high-performance networking. Our Junos Platform enables our customers to expand network software into the application space, deploy software clients to control delivery, and accelerate the pace of innovation with an ecosystem of developers. At the heart of the Junos Platform is Junos OS. We believe Junos OS is fundamentally differentiated from other network operating systems not only in its design, but also in its development capabilities. The advantages of Junos OS include: •One modular operating system with common base of code and a single, consistent implementation for each control plane feature;•A highly disciplined and firmly scheduled development process; and•One common modular software architecture that scales across all Junos-based platforms.Junos OS is designed to improve the availability, performance, and security of business applications running across the network. Junos OS helps to automate network operations by providing a single consistent implementation of features across the network in a single release train that seeks to minimize the complexity, cost, and risk associated with implementing network features and upgrades. This operational efficiency allows network administrators more time to innovate and deliver new revenue-generating applications, helping to advance the economics of high-performance networking. The security and stability of Junos OS, combined with its modular architecture and common source code base, provides a foundation for delivering performance, reliability, security, and scale at a lower total cost of ownership than multiple operating code base environments. With Junos OS as the single operating system that powers our broad portfolio of physical and virtual networking and security products, we believe Junos OS provides us a competitive advantage over other major network equipment vendors. Orchestration and Monitoring ProductsAs many of our customers are moving to a hybrid, multi-cloud environment, managing, orchestrating, and securing that complex environment can be a challenge. We are committed to providing solutions to simplify networking operations to help our customers to optimize their infrastructure and workload placement across their hybrid, multi-cloud environment with the following offerings:•Contrail: Our Contrail Networking and Contrail Cloud Platform offer an open-source, standards-based platform for SDN and NFV. This platform enables our customers to address their key problems in the area of network automation, agility, and time-to-service deployment by providing a mechanism to virtualize the network over any physical network and automating the provisioning and management of networking services (such as security and load balancing). Contrail’s differentiation includes a distributed architecture that allows us to build in scale-out, high-availability and in-service upgrade capabilities; a multi-vendor solution familiar to our customers that allows Contrail to interoperate with equipment from major networking vendors; an open-source licensing model, and sophisticated granular analytics for network and infrastructure performance, all fully driven by Representational State Transfer based application program interfaces, or REST APIs, that can be used by customers to work with any provisioning and management system. Contrail Service Orchestration provides simplicity and automation with service design application, VNF lifecycle management and service administration and troubleshooting.•Junos Space: Our Junos Space network management platform offers an open, Service-Oriented Architecture-based, or SOA, platform for creating organic network management applications to drive network innovation. Junos Space includes applications for network infrastructure management and automation that help customers reduce operational cost and complexity and scale services. These include Network Director, Services Activation Director, Security Director, Edge Services Director, Service Now, and Service Insight. •AppFormix: AppFormix is an optimization and management software platform for public, private, and hybrid clouds. This intent-driven software manages automated operations, visibility, and reporting in cloud and NFV use cases. It features machine learning-based policy and smart monitors, application and software-defined infrastructure analytics, and alarms. Appformix allows tracking and automation of operations in applications and software-defined infrastructure. Its smart-monitoring features detect issues and automatically manage remedial action based on predefined service-level agreements,  8Table of Contentsor SLAs. AppFormix is an integral component of Contrail Cloud, providing comprehensive visualization, smart analytics, and the ability to manage automatic remediation for service assurance.Significant Product Development Projects and Solutions In 2017, we continued to execute on our product and solutions strategy, specifically around the cloud. We announced Cloud-Grade Networking, which we expect will accelerate agility and innovation with cloud customers. Cloud-Grade Networking builds on carrier-grade reach and reliability with enterprise-grade control and usability, bringing cloud-level agility and operational scale to networks everywhere. This announcement included two new foundational products:•Junos Node Slicing: converges multiple concurrent network functions on the same physical routing infrastructure, letting customers optimize their infrastructure while offering differentiated services with enhanced operational and administrative isolation within a single chassis.•Universal Chassis: a breakthrough system allowing customers to standardize on a hardware platform across their data center, core, and network edge. We believe the system will create significant value for our customers by enhancing their return on investment through reduced costs.  Aligning with our Cloud-Grade Networking initiative, we also announced a Programmable Photonic Layer solution, comprised of two main products: TCX1000 Series Programmable ROADM and proNX Optical Director. This solution is a disaggregated optical line system that is designed to offer greater levels of flexibility, cost control, and multi-layer visibility to packet-optical transport.We also announced enhancements to our SDSN platform and expanded our public cloud offering with the introduction of vSRX for Microsoft Azure. Our SDSN enhancements deliver pervasive security across multi-vendor environments, public clouds, and private clouds. Further, we announced enhancements to our Contrail Cloud platform that includes AppFormix integrations, pre-validated virtual network functions, and a managed solution of professional services offering to simplify our customers' transition to telco clouds.In addition, we announced further cloud-based enhancements to our security portfolio. We introduced our Contrail Security product, a new solution specifically designed to allow enterprises and SaaS cloud providers to protect applications running in multiple cloud environments. Research and DevelopmentWe have assembled a team of skilled engineers with extensive experience in the fields of high-end computing, network system design, ASIC design, security, routing protocols, software applications and platforms, and embedded operating systems. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 3,723 people in our worldwide R&D organization. We believe that strong product development capabilities are essential to our strategy of enhancing our core technology, developing additional applications, integrating that technology, and maintaining the competitiveness and innovation of our product and service offerings. In our products, we are leveraging our software, ASIC and systems technology, developing additional network interfaces targeted to our customers' applications, and continuing to develop technology to support the build-out of high performance networks and cloud environments. We continue to expand the functionality of our products to improve performance, reliability and scalability, and to provide an enhanced user interface. Our R&D process is driven by our corporate strategy and the availability of new technology, market demand, and customer feedback. We have invested significant time and resources in creating a structured process for all product development projects. Following an assessment of market demand, our R&D team develops a full set of comprehensive functional product specifications based on inputs from the product management and sales organizations. This process is designed to provide a framework for defining and addressing the steps, tasks, and activities required to bring product concepts and development projects to market. Expenditures for R&D were $980.7 million, $1,013.7 million, and $994.5 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. 9Table of ContentsSales and MarketingAs of December 31, 2017, we employed 2,474 people in our worldwide sales and marketing organization. These sales and marketing employees operate in different locations around the world in support of our customers. Our sales organization, with its structure of sales professionals, business development teams, systems engineers, marketing teams, channel teams, and an operational infrastructure team are generally distributed between vertical markets. Within each team, sales team members serve the following three geographic regions: (i) Americas (including United States, Canada, Mexico, Caribbean and Central and South America), (ii) EMEA, and (iii) APAC. Within each region, there are regional and country teams, as well as vertical market focused teams, to ensure we operate close to our customers. Our sales teams operate in their respective regions and generally either engage customers directly or manage customer opportunities through our distribution and reseller relationships as described below. We sell to a number of Cloud and Telecom/Cable customers directly. Otherwise, we sell to all of our key customer verticals primarily through distributors and resellers. Direct Sales StructureThe terms and conditions of direct purchasing arrangements are governed either by customer purchase orders and our order acknowledgment terms for those orders or by purchase contracts. The direct contracts with these customers set forth only general terms of sale and generally do not require customers to purchase specified quantities of our products. We directly receive and process customer purchase orders. Channel Sales StructureA critical part of our sales and marketing efforts are our channel partners through which we conduct the majority of our sales. We utilize various channel partners, including but not limited to the following: •A global network of strategic distributor relationships, as well as region-specific or country-specific distr