Risk FactorsFactors That May Affect Future ResultsInvestments in our securities involve significant risks. Even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price.Our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.The factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer, partner and supplier consolidation and concentration, competition, long sales and implementation cycles, unpredictable ordering patterns, changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. Furthermore, market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, issues with product quality, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.As a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. It is likely that in some quarters, our operating results will be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. Such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance.A limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. Any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results.A substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners, particularly in our service provider market. Changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, Altice’s purchase of Portugal Telecom, Liberty Global's proposed acquisition of Cable & Wireless Communications, AT&T’s acquisition of DirecTV, and Charter Communications, Inc.'s proposed acquisition of Time Warner Cable, Inc.) and that consolidation trend has continued. If our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results.Our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. Such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to  17Table of Contentsprovide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. In addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. More generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. Furthermore, instability in the global credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. Therefore, fluctuations in revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter.Uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results.Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.In periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in R&D, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. Conversely, in 2014, to refocus the Company’s strategy, optimize its structure and improve operational efficiencies, we implemented a new strategic focus, realigned our organization into a One-Juniper structure, reduced our workforce, consolidated and closed facilities, made changes to enhance efficiency, improved cost management measures and instituted a new capital allocation plan. In connection with our cost management measures, we implemented a substantial cost reduction plan accomplished through various restructuring activities across research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the underperformance of our Security reporting unit and product rationalizations. Further strategy-related pivots could lead to delays in achieving revenue and profit forecasts and result in additional impairment. Some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.We face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results.Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The network equipment market has historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Arista, Brocade, HP, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, F5 Networks, Fortinet, and HP. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.In addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. For example, in recent years, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, HP acquired Aruba Networks, and Cisco acquired OpenDNS and Sourcefire, Inc., which further consolidated our market. In addition, Dell announced a proposed acquisition of EMC, which we anticipate will further consolidate our market upon its consummation. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. In addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation, and offer a  18Table of Contentsbroader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers. Many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other IT products, such as computer and storage systems. If we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business.We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable.We expect our product and service gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products and services to our customers, increases in material, labor, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products and enhancements or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. For example, in fiscal year 2014, our margins declined compared to fiscal year 2013, as a result of higher inventory charges resulting from product rationalizations and an industry-wide memory product quality defect for a component from a third party. We determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.Conversion of key internal systems and processes, particularly our ERP system, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations.We have underway a multi-phase project to convert certain key internal systems and processes, including our customer relationship management, or CRM, system and enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Since 2012, we have been implementing major changes to our ERP system, which activities we expect to continue into 2016. In the third quarter of 2014, we implemented the manufacturing, fulfillment, and inventory portion of this ERP project and were reliant upon dual ERP systems until January 2016 when we moved to a single ERP System. In connection with the transfer to our new ERP system, we scheduled a shutdown of certain of our legacy ERP systems, which may impact our DSO and/or our cash collections in the first quarter of 2016. We are still early in the process of operating under our new ERP system and may need to resolve issues that arise in connection with this transition. We have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. Any problems, disruptions, delays or other issues in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, collect cash from our customers, maintain our DSO measure, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, recognize revenue, file SEC reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, as noted above, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated and in the event of lengthy project delays, we may experience issues with retention of the implementation team. If we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more lengthy or costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted.The long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very  19Table of Contentslengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. These long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter.The timing of product orders and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of software or subscription and support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place. This may make it difficult for investors to observe quarterly trends and may cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin on a quarterly basis.Generally, our network equipment products are stocked only in limited quantities by our distributors and resellers due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. The volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable. If orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. In addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 27%, 26%, and 25% of total revenue in fiscal year 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Sales of new or renewal support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers’ level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers’ spending levels. We recognize support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period. The introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period. As a result, much of the software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our software, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods. Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase our software or services revenue through additional software or services sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period.Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter.We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.We rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. Any future spike in growth in our business, or more likely in IT spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. For example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. We currently purchase numerous key components, including ASICs and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in China. In addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components. For example, GLOBALFOUNDRIES recently acquired IBM’s semiconductor manufacturing business, Avago Technologies Limited recently acquired Broadcom Corporation and Intel Corporation recently acquired Altera Corporation. Consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain  20Table of Contentscomponent parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts. Any disruptions to our supply chain could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business and result in increased costs. Such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on key components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply and shipment of materials and finished goods, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.The development of alternate sources for key components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Nokia Solutions and Networks O.Y., Dimension Data and NEC Corporation. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. For example, in 2011 and 2012, one of our OEM partners, Dell, acquired Force10 and SonicWall, both competitors of ours. As a result, Dell became increasingly competitive in certain areas, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our OEM relationship with Dell. In addition, Nokia Corporation merged with Alcatel-Lucent, a competitor of ours, and Cisco recently announced a partnership with Ericsson, which is one of our existing partners. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. If those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 21Table of ContentsSystem security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we also store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes including us, are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors on an ongoing and regular basis. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. If any breach compromises our networks, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities of our products, the information stored on our networks could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and suffer reputational and financial harm. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks. This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.For example, in December 2015, we disclosed that we identified unauthorized code in our ScreenOS security system that could allow a knowledgeable attacker to gain administrative access to NetScreen devices and to decrypt VPN connections. Following the identification of the ScreenOS vulnerabilities, we launched an investigation into the matter, developed patched releases for the latest versions of ScreenOS and notified customers, all of which required significant time and attention from management and our employees. We also announced that we are making additional changes to ScreenOS in response to our additional analysis and the investigation is ongoing. At this time, we do not have an estimate of third party costs related to the ScreenOS matter that could result from any third party claims brought against us, including, for example, indemnification for damages our customers may incur or actions