Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results  Investments in our securities involve significant risks. The market price of our stock has historically reflected a higher multiple of earnings than many other companies. Accordingly, even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Investors in our securities should  carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our stock price.  Our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, man y of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The factors that may cause our quarterly results to be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. For example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first and third quarters.  As a result of these risk factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. Such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance. Fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predi ct revenues for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results. Our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have resulted in certain historical periods, and may in the future result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could make it difficult to forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. In addition, the recent recession and economic weakness , particularly in the United States and Europe, as well as turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and/or higher costs of production. Continued economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. Furthermore, the continued weakness and uncertainty in worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. In addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term.  Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A limited number of our customers comprise a significant  portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. A substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners. For example, Verizon accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Changes in the 15 Table of Contentsbusiness requirements, vendor selection, financial prospects, capital resources, or purchasing behavior of our key customers could significantly decrease sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, there  has been consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions of AT&T, Inc., MCI, Inc., and BellSouth Corporation). If our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or other unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues. Generally, our Infrastructure products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and configurations required by our customers, and we generally build such products as orders are received. In recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally continued to increase but remains unpredictable. If orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter.  The long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. In particular, customers making critical decisio ns regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. These long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with sho rt lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter. We face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results. Competition is intense in the markets that we address. The Infrastructure market has historically been dominated by Cisco with competition coming from other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade, Extreme Networks, Hewlett Packard Company, and Huawei. In the SLT market , we face intense competition from a broader group of companies such as CheckPoint, Cisco, F5 Networks, and Riverbed. In addition, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address. In addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions. In this regard, Ericsson acquired Redback in 2007, and Brocade acquired Foundry Networks in 2009. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equip ment market than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 Table of ContentsWe rely on value-added and other resellers, distribution partners, and OEM partners to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM,  and NSN. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. For example, in 2006, one of our largest resellers, Lucent, merged with Alcatel, a competitor of ours. As a result of the merger, Alcatel became a competitor, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our reseller agreement with Alcatel. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing ma rkets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. If those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. For example, in 2009, we entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with NSN to develop and resell joint carrier Ethernet solutions and entered into OEM agreements with Dell and IBM pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. These relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. < /div>Governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues. The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. For example, R ussia and China recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and India has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government funded projects. Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependen t in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. If our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed. Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems, and processes of third parties, and on the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. For example, our order entry system feeds information into the systems of our contract manufacturers, which  enables them to build and ship our products. If those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. This could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. For example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late December of 2006 disrupted our communications with China, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs.17 Tab le of Contents We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. For example, as we have expanded our contract manufacturing base to China, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us. If we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed. Upgrades to key internal systems and processes, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations. We previously initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide human resources management system, our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system and enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. In the first quarter of 2010, we implemented a major upgrade of our CRM system. We have invested, a nd will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. Any disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, file SEC reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated. If we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations co uld be negatively impacted. We expect our gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. We expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have recently achieved may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material or labor costs, excess produc t component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.  During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. Any future growth in our business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. For example, from time to time, including the first quarter of 2008, we experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. We currently purchase numerous key components,  including ASICs, from single or limited sources. The development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business.  18 Table of ContentsIf we do not successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a timely  manner, it could cause us to lose customers and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance. For example, in 2010, in connection with the acquisitions of Altor and Trapeze, we are now offering a WLAN product and a virtualization security product. Additionally, in 2009, we announced plans to develop and introduce new data center products with our Project Stratus and mobility solutions with our Project Falcon. If these or other  new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to achieve market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. In addition,  if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination  of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the R&D tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement; tax effects of share-based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting princ iples, or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, in 2009, we received a proposed adjustment from the IRS claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and possible penalties, for the 2004 tax year based on a transfer pricing transaction related to the license of acquired intangibles unde r an intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement. As a result of the proposed adjustment, the incremental tax liability would be approximately $807 million excluding interest and penalties. We believe the IRS’ position with regard to this matter is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and existing Treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income tax provision for the year in question is appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor. Regardless of whether this matter is resolved in our favor, the final resolution of this matter could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and/or settle. While we believe we have provided adequately for this matter, there is a possibility that an adverse outcome of the matter could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Telecommunications companies and our other large customers generally require more onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. As we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Telecommunications service provider companies and other large companies, because of their size, generally have greater purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous terms and conditions from us. As we seek to sell more products to t his class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms. For example, customers in this class have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. As a result, this class of 19 Table of Contentscustomers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. These additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers and the manufacturers order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. Conversely, because lead times for req uired materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. We are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that  could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contra ct manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders.  We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, in December 2010 we acquired Altor and Trapeze, in July 2010 we acquired SMobile, and in April 2010 we acquired Ankeena. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely  to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process. Acquisitions may also require us to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures,  financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas , or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise