    - Welcome back for another episode of the Village Home Show. This show is our opportunity to show you what our small business has been working on in and around the Quad Cities area. If this is your first time watching us, hi there, my name is Elizabeth Round and I'm the host of this show. Village Home Stores is your one stop shop destination located in downtown Geneseo, Illinois. We offer appliances, cabinetry, countertops, lighting, flooring, wall tile, window treatments and more. If you're looking to build a home or remodel any time soon, we are so glad that you are watching the show. Today we'll be showing you a stunning kitchen remodel story in Bettendorf, Iowa. We will also be giving you a special inside look at some new and exciting smart home products available from Village Home Stores. The connected home. Remember when futuristic kitchen appliances and voice controlled lighting were just things we saw in sci-fi movies and shows? Well I am telling you the connected home we have seeing onscreen and reading about in science fiction is something within our reach today. Home products and fixtures are evolving to become easier to use and affordable to purchase. In fact purchases made in the smart home category are proving to be more and more desirable when listing and buying a home. And we as customers are adapting to get more and more comfortable using smart home tech. Many of us would never have predicted even a few years ago that we would have a voice assist device in our homes that could tell us the forecast, look up a phone number, or play our dance playlist for us. And by now, I am certain most watching have used or have a voice controlled device like an Alexa or a Google Home Assist in their home. The home office has also changed. When we plugged our first home computers in, that was one thing, but now we carry computers around in our pockets all day long. So yes the term smart home tech may seem overwhelming, but keep in mind, these products are meant to make your life easier, so we promise they're easy to navigate. And of course we're here to help you, we are learning too. Remember the first time you used a wave controlled faucet in a restaurant? Well now that technology is available for your home faucets. Remember how impressed we all were when we saw the commercial for the clapper the first time? Well guess what? Now you can give specific lighting directions by voice to your home lighting. In this episode of the Village Home Show we'll be showing you some fun and exciting new products designed to make your time at home more enjoyable. Many of what you'll see in today's episode falls within the connected and smart home category. Village Home Stores is your expert source for home products and design and that includes smart home tech. We have a lot of exciting things for you to experience in this episode so let's jump right in. When we come back we're going to show you the most innovative and exciting new product Kitchen Aid has launched since the dishwasher and stand mixer. Both of those product launches were pretty incredible, and this one is just as major so stay tuned.    - My name is Jim Ries, co-owner of Village Home Stores located here in Geneseo, Illinois. - Hi my name is Rob Ries with Village Home Stores from just an appliance store to add cabinetry, countertops, lighting, floor covering, and now today we do full project management of kitchen and bathroom remodels. So if they're building a new home they can make a lot of their selections all in one spot and keep them from having to go from store to store to select all these products. What we offer here is a one stop shop, they start with us they finish with us. You know another thing we offer here at Village Home Stores is our own delivery and installation team. That's really what we take pride in is taking care of our customers, taking care of any problems that do arise.    - [Announcer] Now you can fall even more in love with Black Stainless from KitchenAid. Because there are even more beautiful appliances to love. From ranges to refrigerators, dishwashers to ice makers, ovens and more, the lustrous satiny black color makes a bold statement yet still retains the authentic beauty of stainless steel by allowing the soft brushed quality to come through. The warm finish is offset dramatically by polished chrome details and satin textured handles. All capped off with signature medallions that can be customized with a choice of colors. Black Stainless is stunning and designed to stay that way with a Printshield finish that resists fingerprints and smudges and cleans easily. That means you can spend your time doing what you love, cooking, thanks to the superior performance and unmatched beauty of all your Black Stainless appliances, from KitchenAid.    - At Village Home Stores we service and sell many brands of appliances to meet your lifestyle and your budget. We also learn over the year as new products are launched hands on product training. And joining me today is appliance expert from Village Home Stores Tammy, welcome Tammy. - Thank you Elizabeth, it's a pleasure being here. - Well Tammy how long have you worked at Village Home Stores? - Since 2010. - 2010, so you have experienced a lot of product training. - Yes definitely. - And you were my buddy this year at a handful of really great product training opportunities, one of which was an experience I've never had before, can you tell us a little bit about that? - That was at the World of Whirlpool in downtown Chicago. It's a quaint old building right along the river front, beautiful setting. And the training there was unique in that it is a very hands on experience and you really instead of just learning about it you experience the appliances. - It was really wonderful. Everything's plugged in so you can really use the touchscreens, the smart kitchen, all of those products were plugged in ready to use and try out. Helps us be able to tell you how to use your appliances and when you call Tammy at the store she can walk you through these things and there's a lot of exciting new products launched that are out and you really do wanna see them and experience them to get the idea and that's why we're here to talk today about one that, there was a lot of buzz around this one particular product launch and what was that? - That would be the KitchenAid Smart Oven Plus. This oven is amazing! - It's got a lot going on. So if you're familiar with KitchenAid it may be because of the KitchenAid Stand Mixer. Now KitchenAid has taken this stand mixer approach and added these powered attachments into a wall oven. So the same way your KitchenAid mixer from years and years and years ago, you can get a new attachment for it and use it, put things in that front port, it's gonna be consistent and it's gonna work, that modular approach is now a wall oven with power detachments. So what kind of things can this wall oven do Tammy? - Well besides what it always could do is a true convection KitchenAid is amazing. It does an amazing job cooking but now it also has a steamer. With this steamer you could actually do a family of four do the entire meal in this steamer. And then also we've got the baking stone, it's gonna preheat half the time, so much easier to clean up. And then we also have the grill. And with this grill you can do grilling inside. - That's pretty amazing so grilling indoors year round, in the mid-west, you're in your own climate controlled home and that's about as fantastic as you could ask for in these extreme winters and extreme summers that we can get here, to be able to grill without smoke everywhere in your kitchen by the way, we will get to that. So I'm gonna get in depth on all of these attachments so you can understand the ins and outs of how they're actually working. So these three attachments that come with the Smart Oven Plus, who is this for, who would love this? - Anybody that cooks. Everyone would love this because the home chef, they're gonna love it, somebody like me that never knows what to cook, it's got all these recipes in the app that you can look up, and it's just so easy. - It really, it walks you through every step, there are videos at some points, the Recipe Assist feature that is gonna continue to get updates by the way, it's meant to get you comfortable with your Smart Oven Plus. So it wants you to experience all of these timers, all these things that are preset for you, you can get notified when it's time to flip your burgers, which is pretty fantastic. So you've got a lot of different options on these and out of all of these appliances that are the powered attachments, if I say that this is easy to use, would you agree with that statement? - Oh definitely yes. This is so easy to use that the touchscreen is so intuitive, it walks you right through it. And sometimes when you're a new technology it can be kind of scary, not this. KitchenAid has done such a great job and then also even the ease of use, the clean up, it's so easy. Plus the Recipe Assist that you were referring to, that walks you through step by step with every function of the oven. So it takes all the guesswork out. - Yeah and it really meets you where your ability and your interest is too with that Recipe Assist you could use it, you could not use it, it's really really a great way to learn how to use the appliance but then also use it day to day and you can, anything on this little screen you can put onto a tablet in your kitchen to see it larger. Lots of just really really great stuff here. So out of all of these, which is your favorite? - It's a tough choice. I love the steamer and the baking stone, but I've gotta say the grill. We do a lot of grilling at home, I love it. This last winter when my grill was buried in the snow it would've been so wonderful to be able to still grill. - Absolutely, you can fit a lot on that grill, you can fit a lot on the steamer and you can fit a full size pizza onto that baking stone. So you really can be using this to feed your entire household. And if you're an entertainer and you entertain a lot of people this would be a very great way to get a lot done at once. Thank you so much for joining us Tammy. - Thank you so much for having me. - There are a lot of exciting connected appliance features being launched, but this wall oven is more than just a smart appliance with an app. When you purchase a Smart Oven Plus you're all set up for the new attachments and updates for it moving forward. Smart Oven Plus powered attachments will allow you to always have the latest and greatest in KitchenAid cooking. The wall oven comes with three powered attachments and any new ones that are launched can also be ordered and will work with your Smart Oven Plus. And trust me, there are already new powered attachments in the works. This is far more than an oven. This wall oven can bake and crisp, steam a complete meal, and even grill. At the back of the wall oven is a gravity close port that the base pan connects to. This 2,000 watt heating element then can be used with an attachment placed on top. Your wall oven will include a base pan with heating element, grill, steamer with basin and lid, and a baking stone. All of these attachments come with your purchase and any new attachments launched can be purchased separately as they're introduced. Now if grilling makes you nervous because you think it will create a lot of smoke, don't worry. The grill attachment fits perfectly over the heating element so you get grill marks with no smoke flareups. There are video tutorials and pre-programmed recipes to help guide you to get comfortable with your new Smart Oven. I would like to personally recommend the chorizo burgers, they're delicious. Anything you see on your screen can be viewed using an app on your tablet or mobile device as well. Because this is a connected appliance, any updates moving forward can be done to your existing unit. So as new options like voice control and added recipes become available, you can get these features on your existing Smart Oven. Okay so let me explain more what you can actually do with it. If you love the cooking process, you are going to love this oven. This steamer attachment was designed to make a meal for four to six people all in one pan. Since we're in the mid-west, let me give you a size measurement you can actually relate to. This pan fits three racks of ribs. And in this basin you can add any liquid that can steam assist and enhance your flavor, not just water. Think apple juice, white wine, beer, and so many options. To bake and crisp use the baking stone. This baking stone rests right on to the heating element so it preheats in half the time and it never has to be seasoned. It is a ceramic glazed enamel surface that is non-stick and dishwasher safe. A great detail is the sloped back wall on this baking stone and the grill. We trained with Chef Ann Noland who was a part of the design process for this wall oven and she added the sloped back so that you can get edge to edge use and scoop with a spatula against the back edge without making a mess in the back of the oven. Speaking of spatulas one of my favorite features of the grill attachment is you can connect and monitor progress on your phone or smart watch and even get flip notifications, how cool is that? Our training with this exciting new connected appliance category has only just started. As always we are committed to expert product knowledge so that we can help you select and use the right appliance for your home. If you have any questions about how to use a connected appliance feature, our resources are just a quick phone call or message away. Stop at our showroom and see the Smart Oven in person.    - [Announcer] Brittanicca, from the Marble Collection. Cambria, a legend in every design.   You are my sunshine   - Alexa, ask Whirlpool... - Hey Google, ask Whirlpool... - [Announcer] Care can be a handful, that's why our Whirlpool Smart Range helps you care smarter with voice control. - [Guest] Hey Google, ask Whirlpool to turn off the oven. - [Guest] Set oven timer for five hours. - Alexa, ask Whirlpool to heat the oven to 350. - [Announcer] So life doesn't revolve around your range. Every day, care. Whirlpool. - [Announcer] Found at Village Home Stores, and villagehomestores.com.    -  Welcome to this new kitchen in Bettendorf, Iowa. This kitchen is now updated and outfitted with the latest finishes and technology, making it stylish and connected. The kitchen of the future is now, and it can look as great as this. This Quad Cities area customer found out about Village Home Stores by watching this weekly TV show. So when they were ready for a remodel they knew who to call to get started. We were so thrilled with the ideas they came to us with for an open concept kitchen. When we describe the kitchen as the hub of the home, this one is a great example of that. With access to the dining area, lofted living room, new home office space, and a backyard pool retreat, this new open design is perfect. The original design included oak cabinetry and a layout that really divided the kitchen from the dining and living spaces. The original peninsula location blocked easy access to the beautiful outside pool area that should just be steps away. We began by removing the original kitchen, but we kept one main element in place to help save some money for these clients. We kept the original tile floors. Thankfully the original tile was installed beneath that kitchen peninsula so we were able to build a new knee wall and locate the island in a more central place for the new design. Now this long island is the centerpiece of the new kitchen. Waterfall and Cambria quartz tops in the Brittanica warm design wrap the length of the kitchen island and ends and a custom kitchen table has been included on the end closest to the pool access. This custom table was designed to appear included with the island design but the table can actually be moved if needed. A custom wood base was built by our carpenter team and our painters painted it to complement the kitchen cabinetry and trim. We included a custom black walnut tabletop to add warmth and an upscale texture to the space. Can't find the right table to match your new kitchen from Village Home Stores? Let us make one for you to ensure that it lines up with the overall look and your unique size requirements. The same Cambria quartz in the kitchen island is installed as the perimeter counter surfaces and a statement wall behind the range hood. We love how the veining pattern skates across the island top and up the wall. A new approach to the two tone kitchen, dark painted bases with a bright and airy upper cabinet in a contrasting finish. Many times this trend is installed with open floating shelves for the upper cabinetry. But in this design we wanted to include as much usable storage as possible. The use of mirror in some of the wall cabinetry does add a lighter weight to the look of the upper cabinets. The X design in the cabinet door is a great transitional detail that suits many styles. Mirrors can be a great way to bounce light and brighten up a room while concealing the contents inside of the cabinet. Black stainless steel appliances and vent hood are a dramatic contrast to the white cabinets and an eye catching continuation of the dark based cabinetry. Matte black is one of our favorite home trends and this kitchen rocks the trend so well with KitchenAid's industry first black stainless steel finish. Black stainless is not just for contemporary spaces. This finish complements so many tastes and comes with tons of the newest appliance features like Recipe Assist, and even some connected options. The black stainless kitchen suite looks amazing, and this 15 inch wide appliance is one of our favorites. An under counter ice maker with clear ice technology is an absolute dream for anyone who entertains. Of course when you have a pool, people tend to show up. Available in 15 inch and 18 inch widths and many finishes, KitchenAid's clear ice makers create the most preferred ice in the industry. Restaurant quality ice is a game changer if you love cold beverages. A KitchenAid staff member recently asked me a riddle. He said what can elevate your beverage experience without altering the flavor? The answer is clear ice. Check out this demonstration. Here are two glasses and two cans of our favorite locally canned soda. In one glass is fresh regular ice. In the second glass clear ice from the ice maker. Now watch the difference as I pour into each glass. The humidity levels and temperatures this ice is made at allow it to look and last better. Next to the ice maker we installed a beverage cooler with a custom panel to match the cabinetry. This keeps the beverage area of the new kitchen design looking symmetrical. Panel ready appliances can be a wonderful custom option. We offer them in many refrigerator and dishwasher models. An example of a technology in appliances that has become more accessible over the years is convection. Convection baking used to be limited to only the highest end of home appliances, and a more commercial appliance feature. Now this method of baking is available in some capacity on a majority of the models we offer. This kitchen includes a KitchenAid combination wall oven and microwave with true convection features. And now for some more fun tech in this design. This kitchen boasts a wave controlled faucet, a hands free wastebasket, and did we mention that you can actually talk to the lighting program in this kitchen? Our stylish Adorn series of switches and outlets from Legrand come with a wide array of options to suit your tech needs, including adding a voice control feature to your lighting plan. We installed our best selling Diode under cabinet lighting system in this kitchen. That lighting plus the cans and many other things in this home are connected with voice control, check this out. Alexa dim the counters to 10%. - [Robot Voice] Okay. - Turn off cans. - [Robot Voice] Okay. - Alexa turn on cans. - [Robot Voice] Okay. - You can control your options and commands all within the app. Using the Legrand app and connecting to a voice assist device, this option is hands free and easy to use. You can even control your lighting within the app when you aren't at home. Now that's a connected kitchen. Of course you can never have enough outlets in any busy kitchen. We even hid a pop up outlet on the kitchen island. These outlet covers are a perfect match to the graphite paint finish from Dura Supreme. Our Dura Supreme line of cabinetry also offers lots of great storage solution cabinets. This kitchen includes sliding shelves, pull out spice storage, and even a mixer lift cabinet. This Quad Cities area couple used the complete project management program at Village Home Stores. We managed it all from start to finish. For those who need the complete step by step guidance we have a process in place and can walk you through each phase. Our goal is to get your project completed on time, on budget and to the level of quality we would expect in our own home. Are you ready to start your own before and after story like this? Are you curious about what new and exciting products we have available for your home? Then just reach out to our team. We can't wait to hear what type of project you're working on and how we can help.    - [Announcer] Answer the question, what's for dinner before it's even asked? Choose from guided cooking recipes that match your family's tastes. And sync with your Whirlpool Smart Range to keep meal prep moving. Step by step video tutorials help you make the most of your time in the kitchen, with notifications that let you know when to start the next step, prompts and cooking instructions right to your appliances. So life doesn't have to revolve around your range. Now after a long day, you can make getting dinner on the table easier. Yummly guided cooking now works with Whirlpool Smart Ranges. - [Announcer] Whirlpool, found at Village Home Stores and villagehomestores.com.    - I'm David, service tech at Village Home Stores, and my top pick would be Affresh Cleaning Tablets. Throw 'em in the washer, start it up and let it go, grab your cleaning wipes too, wipe down the front seal of your front loader, and stop on in at Village today and pick 'em up. - My name is Jeff, service technician at Village Home Store since 2001, my pick is Excelsior Detergent. Few reasons why I picked that, there's no fillers and dyes. Some of those additives that they put in the detergents cause odors and the buildup in your washing machine, and with this detergent we don't get the odors and the buildup that you would with normal detergents. So my pick is Excelsior Detergent and we keep it in stock so stop by and pick some up.    - The connected household we thought was something of the Jetson's era is actually a reality already in most Quad Cities area homes today. Are you streaming this show on a mobile device or watching it live on TV? You could do both. The reality is we now have access to so much information in this connected world. When you shop, you research online right? I know I do. At Village Home Stores our goal is to be your expert source for all things home. We do our best to make our content online informative about our store, and also important topics in our industry. You can find us online on our website with social media or our blog. More importantly you can connect with real people when you're ready to get started. We encourage you to find us online and even shop our appliance and lighting products right from our website. But don't miss out on a chance for our team to connect with you and be sure you're selecting the best options for your lifestyle and budget. If you find some things you're interested in, pick up the phone or shoot us a message, we can help you out. Our sales teams are experts in their field, let them go to work for you. We're a one stop shop to make your experience with us easier. Having all these departments under one roof saves you time and honestly gets you the very best finished product because we're all sharing a vision for what you're working on. Our staff works together to build you the perfect team of experts for whatever your project may be. We can help as little or as much as you would like us to. That means if you wanna do the work yourself, we can set you up with an expertly prepared design and quality materials to get you on your way. If you want us to do the work for you, we're ready to get to work for you. We have chosen the lines of products we offer for value and the very best experience for you, our customers. We can sell our brands with confidence at Village Home Stores because we're directly connected to these brands and the people working to make them for you. We have become the regional destination for kitchen and bath design products and we're going to work hard to maintain that title. Customers who have chosen Village Home Stores agree that there is such a value in our process and expert staff at Village. We hope that you've enjoyed hearing from some of that staff in this episode, along with seeing some incredible new spaces we've completed in the area. Ready to get started on your own before and after story with us? Your first step is just to reach out to us. You can send us a message right now online by visiting villagehomestores.com and completing the short form on our contact us page. We will have a member of our team reach right back out to you and answer you initial questions and we'll get you started. You can also reach our team by calling 309-944-1344. Of course you're always welcome to stop by and see us at our showroom in downtown Geneseo, just a short drive from anywhere in this viewing area, we are definitely worth the trip. Learn more about our store, see our current promotions and rebates, read our weekly blog, and find links to all of our social media sites online at villagehomestores.com. We can't wait to hear what you're working on and how we can help. Click or call to connect with us. We've been in business since 1984 and we have changed and adapted so much over that time. Little bits of our small business story happen every single day all around the Quad Cities region. in the homes and businesses we're working in and we hope you can be a part of it. We want you to start your own story with us. We thank you so much for watching this episode of the Village Home Show. Be sure to tune in again to see more beautiful spaces we're creating in homes right here in the Quad Cities region. I've been your host Elizabeth Round, and I look forward to seeing you right back here again soon for another episode of the Village Home Show.    - Speaking of spatulas, stop down to spatula city. And now for some more fun tech in this design. This kitchen boasts a wave controlled faucet... Yeah I gotta, okay.    