 - We're looking for things that give you a sense of pleasure and accomplishment. So that can include hobbies such as gardening, crafts, cooking, doing jigsaw puzzles, you can organize get togethers with your friends online, or playing games online together. You may find some people really enjoy certain house chores or may feel very satisfied by getting things done that they've wanted to for a long time. Finding ways to support or help other people can be or give you really a sense of achievement and feel good about yourself. So reaching out to other people to see what they need, checking in on somebody who's living alone, shopping for someone, if you're able to go out to shop, maybe shopping for somebody else. Another way to have a sense of meaning and pleasure in your life is to connect to your spiritual or religious resources. If you have a spiritual or religious tradition that's meaningful for you, you may not be able to attend things as a group right now, and that can have a sense of loss, but connecting to some of those ideas or practices or texts within your own home can remind you that you're still connected to the community of people who share these beliefs with you. Mindfulness is another way that people connect themselves to not only the present moment, but to other people in the world and in a way to the whole universe. If you're trying all of these and it's really not feeling enough, or you're already feeling very overwhelmed, please reach out for support. You can start by talking to friends and family, or you can go straight to reaching out to a therapist. If you have a therapist already, please be in touch with them. Many people are now doing video sessions, or even over the phone and there are ways to find new therapists. There's actually a website through psychology today that's a therapist finder and they now have a filter for online or phone therapy, so you can look for a therapist near you and search for somebody, you can search for somebody who's going to be able to meet with you online. One thing that people are really wondering is how they can stay connected to others while also isolating to stop the spread and flatten the curve, and it is a challenge. I'm not gonna minimize it. We are social beings, and there's something different our nervous- we're social beings and our nervous systems really feel it when we aren't around other people or when we're around them a lot less. So like I said, validate for yourself that this is a change, and it isn't going to feel the same. At the same time, there are ways to stay connected with people. I would recommend having somebody that you talk to on the phone every day, someone, or multiple people, but making sure that you're connecting with someone, even if you have people in your household, making sure to connect with someone outside of your home every day. Pay attention to your responding, because isolating emotionally can be a sign of distress, so if you're finding that you don't have the energy to respond, even to people who are checking on you, that might be a good time to know that you need to reach out to a friend or to a therapist. I recommend using video conferencing at least from time to time. Some people are self conscious about that but again if you're not seeing a lot of other faces, seeing some faces can make a difference. That can even mean participating in group events where you keep your own video off but you can see other people around you. Isolating physically doesn't mean, for most people, and please know your own conditions, but for most people it does not mean at this time that they are not allowed to leave the house at all, it is still possible to take walks in your neighborhood, Monroe County is recommending at this time that everybody be masked when they leave their home, and so it is possible to go out for a walk with a mask and say hi to people that you're passing at a distance, to swing by homes of people that you know, and maybe stand out at the sidewalk and they stand in their doorway and you say hello. You know, really just having that situation where you are around, I say that very generally, around other people, where you see people in person, can really make a difference. Again, even taking a walk and just seeing some people passing in the street is different than being inside your same apartment or house all the time. 