 [MUSIC]  Can you tell us a little bit about the value for yourself, your team, your company to be here, and partnering with Microsoft and representing to you at Computex?  Yeah. It's great advantage to attend either a Computex with the Microsoft together, which are actually the system we're building up is quite complicated. A combine with the technology from both sides, and though it will be very good of attitude to show the common Cosmos of Microsoft and two are together to demonstrate what capability we can have together. Then we can have a certain of topics about what's a futures we can bring and what's the roadmap of technologies from both sides that we can do it together.  Your team being here this week in Taipei Computex, can you tell me a little bit about what types of customers or what type of partnerships that you're looking to form?  Yeah. Actually, we're building an IoT platform solutions into in-solutions. Actually, we're facing several type of customers out there including the manufacturers out there in that Computex, and especially for those IT guys, and also the retailers, and also some other service providers. So that will be the partners we're working for. They're everywhere in the Computex.  I love to hear your perspective on how you see the IoT ecosystem growing and changing in the next three to five years, and how you think your solution, your platform will help support that growing demand.  Yeah. I think that IoT ecosystem is that you need more peers. You need more type of peers in the market. What we see here is that because of the Microsoft Week helping to simplify the development and help to go to market, and there'll be more and more peers coming in. So right now, we see that maybe over half of those exhibitors in Computex are demonstrating or are starting to develop any type of IoT devices including the chipset, including the system, including the software service, including the go-to-market. So right now what we see that is accelerating.  You can tell me your perspective on how you think Microsoft or Azure Products and Services are simplifying IoT for your development for the growth of your business.  Yeah. When speaking of IoT, it's simple be complex system out there including the device, including the hardware, including the embedded system, including the Cloud service, and including application levels. So actually, I think that Microsoft did a great job that you provide the infrastructures for most of the IoT devices which is needed. Then what's the job for two years that we're building things on top of the Microsoft infrastructure, which is simplify us. Then by many of the basic technology you providing including the BI, including the AICs, we combine them all together and then we can provide the better performance, technologies to the end users.  I want to give you a chance to show us what you have here this week, at Computex, in terms of your three app portfolio.  Yeah. So what we are providing is that for most type of the IoT devices combines three parts: the device conductivity, and that the Cloud service and applications, and the especially for consumer base. It's quite complicated for many of the consumer electronic manufacturers to know how to combine them all together. So what Tuya do was a very unique, we provide an end-to-end solutions, put the three parts together, so we provide the connectivity on the device side and we provide the Cloud, which is deployed on Azure and then we provide applications, which would be very fast. So they're very easy for any type of manufacturer out there to install a module from Tuya, which contain with a embedded system we develop, and then connect it to the Cloud we already deployed on Azure, and then the device will be able to monitor and control to the application we develop.  Wow.  So we simplify that development for any type of a connected devices very much. So soon that in past three years, we're very connected over a hundred thousand of manufacturers in the world.  Hundred thousand?  A hundred thousand.  It's very impressive.  We developed over 30,000 type of a given type of products in the whole.  Wow.  So we accelerate. We tried to lower the bar for any type of developers and manufacturers in the world to be able to produce any type of functionalities for smart phones. [MUSIC] 