 Bom Dia, Welcome! I will show you now some images of this installation which is a private installation for our house. We got 1.5 KW of installed solar power and we have a battery which permits to use the solar energy not used directly to store for the night, so the autonomy is about one night. If there is enough sun we have 24h pure solar power. If like today we  don’t have enough sun, which happens even in Setubal, we have the public grid. The whole installation is running in parallel with the public grid. When there is not enough sun, the public grid will supply the energy and the inverter which you will see later, is managing the energy flows. So enjoy the pictures and if there are any questions, just contact us by mail or phone we would be more than happy to receive you. Thank you. April first eight o’clock Sun from the east This is the current production. Current production, battery after the night almost empty, 19% Input 230 watts, battery is charging This is now 11 o’clock. You can see from where in the morning pictures were taken of the installation Six panels 280 watts peak You can see from the shadow that we are not far away from the best position The sun is now more or less in the south You can also see that there is a big building to the south west, which means in the summer at five o’clock and in the winter at three o’clock there is no more sun The structure of the support of the panels The angle is not optimized for the summer; it is rather optimized for the winter which means the angle is steeper. For the summer it would be maybe 30 degrees now we have 45 degrees inclination Connections and there we go to cables and the protection going down to the inverter Again the inverter This is the brain of the system As you can see now it is 1.2 kilowatt coming from the system, battery already charged at 36%. If we look at the battery There are 2 lithium batteries They are now charging. You can see the LED’s which are flashing. When it is fully charged there are five LED’s which are on now there are two which are on and one each flashing. You can also see the solid cables which go up to the inverter. And you have a remote connection and a data connection Here we got the screen. We can get from the inverter some information of what happened in the past. This is now the solar production in the month of March 2020 The yellow part is the actual sun which was directly consumed in the house The green part is what went to the battery If we now look at the consuming part  you can see the yellow part which is more or less identical to what we saw before that is the solar consumption of the house in March. And the blue part is what came from the grid. This is a grid connected installation And not surprisingly when there is not much sun there is a drop in the solar part and a peak in the grid consumption 