 - [Narrator] This video will go over the customization options available on Toyota's new Entune 3.0 Multimedia Systems. A key part of the Entune experience is the idea of making it your own. The mentality that it's already evident in existing Entune features like having the ability to rearrange the Audio Sources on the multimedia display screen. But now, with Entune 3.0, that ability to have a custom experience is taking a big leap forward. Let's have a look at some of the personalization options available. First, and perhaps most notably, you can now adjust the layout of the Home screen itself. Offering convenience and usability beyond a basic full screen or even a split screen layout. For this, Entune 3.0 offers a few different options from which to choose. First, tap Customize Home Screen in the Setup Menu and you will be presented with several of Entune 3.0's feature applications. Tap on any of these and then select which part of the screen you'd like it to fill. You can also adjust the layout of these screen areas by tapping Change Layout. There are four layouts available. First is a simple 2X2 layout of four equal size areas. And then a split screen layout, where two areas each take up half the screen horizontally. There's also right and left facing layouts in which one area takes up a full half screen column, and then the other half is split vertically in two. Also new and notable for Entune 3.0 is a way to adjust the color pallette for the entire operating system. Don't like how light or how dark everything is? No problem. Just pick one of the other color themes. There is actually four of them available. To do this access the Setup menu from the Home screen. Within the General tab, tap on Theme Setting. This opens a menu of four themes. Tap on the one you want, and the system updates immediately. (pleasant music) Now as before, you can else rearrange the audio settings sources on your audio menu as well as the apps within your apps menu, but now you can also hide apps entirely both through the head unit and through the Entune App Suite Connect app on a connected mobile device. To adjust the arrangement of audio sources, simply tap the Reorder button at the bottom. Select the source, move it right or left as desired and then tap OK. This includes any audio based APT you may have as well. Now, in the General tab of the Setup menu, you can find a few other customization options. For example, setting the clock, the language of the system, keyboard layout and history, measurement units in miles or kilometers, and even whether or not the system makes a beep when options are tapped. Finally, to adjust the Entune 3.0 App Suite Connect menu from within the head unit, tap on Apps, and then App Catalog at the bottom of the App menu. This can also be done through the Entune 3.0 App Suite Connect mobile app. So, as you can see, Entune 3.0 is a highly customizable system which is a great way to ensure that new Toyota really feels like it's made just for you. 