 Hi guys, welcome back to my channel and welcome to my kitchen. This video is sponsored by best buy. As you guys know, well, hopefully, you know this I bought a house and this is the kitchen And now that I'm in a phase in my life where I actually know how to cook It's just ah, oh my god, it's literally everything I'm getting old because I get really excited about kitchens Anyway, yeah this kitchens an upgrade And not only is it an upgrade just because of the general size of it But I also hooked it up with all the latest smart home technology Thanks to Best Buy with all the best buys voice tag and Home Solutions Cooking is just like so much easier in this new kitchen It's just a great place to deck out your home and the latest smart home technologies Not only because they have lots of options but because they're blue shirt experts help you navigate all those options They've answered all my questions and pretty much eliminated any confusion that I have about any of the products that I have How can you figure out which products are compatible with? other products, you know I'm saying it's just been nice to have someone who Knows what they're talking about But anyway, the reason I'm talking so much about all of this is because today you're cooking in my kitchen. Yeah I'm so excited. We're gonna be cooking a pizza because I want pizza but i'm not gonna make my own dough cause i don't have time for that. But before we can get started with making the pizza We have to go to the store and get the ingredients for the pizza because I Don't have the ingredients for the pizza. Like I said, I just moved here so Yeah, I don't know where the nearest grocery store is But luckily and that's something I can ask Google hub that I got at Best Buy. Okay, Google where is the nearest grocery store? (Alexa: I found a few grocery stores near you) Okay, now we can go so let's go Got the ingredients so I have a nest indoor camera as a part of my smart home system so I can basically Watch Finn and see what he's doing when I'm gone I set it up in my kitchen This time to get a view of his food and the back door where he normally waits when I leave I mean, who knows? What animals do when you leave? I've seen the secret life of pets but anyway before I get home, I kind of want to look at the camera and See if we can see Finn Finny, Oh my god That is so sad, like I honestly wish I didn't have an indoor camera to witness that. Hi Finny Hi Finn We're making eye contact, huh Shut up, that was so cute. Okay. Let's just go home and see him because That's what I'm doing next going home. I'm back with all the ingredients Pizza dough, tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese, fontina cheese, Grana Padano cheese, Grana Padano grana padana prana, this, this cheese a red onion and what you will also need but I didn't buy because I already have it is Garlic, honey, crushed red pepper flakes and Italian seasoning first things first. I'm gonna wash my hands All right first we're gonna grate the fontina cheese, I don't need this much this is like a lot of cheese Okay Next we're gonna grate this cheese we need about How much is this this is? this is... How many ounces is this I dont know I feel like that's pretty good Mozzarella mozzarella is just the most fun cheese of all of the cheese's cuz instead of creating it We're just gonna beat tearing it up into little pieces It's juicy so sorry, you gotta see that yummy YUM, oh did I say what kind of pizza we're making I'm making a three cheese pizza and I am doing something else which is either gonna make people Love this pizza or hate it is I feel like this food is a very polarizing food. Maybe I'm wrong, but onions How do we feel about them? I'm feeling a lot of people don't like onions but I I like onions and I'm going to be caramelizing some and Putting the caramelized onions on top of the pizza after it bakes shouts gasps boom done with the cheese's now we're gonna need a knife because we are gonna be mincing two cloves of garlic It's time to make the sauce Get that garlic in there Cook until fragrant And then we're gonna add the tomato sauce Then I'm going to add the tablespoon of the Italian seasoning and this goes for about like Four minutes or until it's thick. So hey Google set a timer for four minutes Okay, four minutes, and that's starting now And it's done this looks just perfect Leave that there and we're gonna do the dough Oh my god i'm such an idiot i forgot to preheat the oven. Oh my god. Okay preheat your oven Come on out Come on out and play come on come on Oh, it's so sticky don't worry my counters are like sparkling clean This is looking pretty good so I'm gonna move it onto the pans and now it's time for the best part We get to top it so obviously first things first tomato sauce Just spread it around Classic pizza making things just pizza things sksksk. I love my pizzas really saucy That looks pretty good to me. She's a little um Misshapen over here. Just a little but you know what it's made with love and I'm the only one eating it Hmm it's time for cheese. So I'm gonna put all of this cheese on This is the fontina. She's a really cheesy gal. So dairy haters beware I honestly try not to eat too much dairy in my day-to-day life, but I know it's a special occasion We're making video me when I make a video every week I think I have way too much. Mozzarella So I don't think I'm gonna use it all but basically just you know, putting globs of it all over I'm just gonna sprinkle like Half of this on here and the other half I'm gonna put on after comes out of the oven season with salt and pepper And boom she's ready to go in the oven wow, that looks pretty good very cheesy wooooo its hot hey Google set a timer for 17 minutes 17 minutes starting now, okay while the pizzas in the oven it's time to do onion stuff, which is gonna be very difficult... for my eyes I saw that Gordon Ramsay said Somewhere that if you keep the ends Like the roots of the onion on while you're cutting it and then cut those off. Last it prevents you from crying So let's try it. I'm gonna cut this in half. so hot in the kitchen right now though. The oven is preheated to like 475 degrees and it's just radiating off. Hey, Google. Can you turn the air on? Okay changing hallway to cool Best Buy's blue shirt experts helped me connect every single room in my house and they made sure that all my smartphone devices work together So I can turn my a/c on while in my kitchen with my Google hub even though my thermostat is all the way over there in The hallway Best Buy basically has a free service that you can use to get inspiration for your home projects You can literally have an advisor come out and meet you in your home can provide you with a personalized plan I had an advisor come out to my home and I picked all my products and Best Buy literally handled All the rest is set up the deliveries for me and the installations for me. So I Literally did nothing. I just stayed home while people came to me and did things for me Wait, okay. I cannot believe that actually work. I'm not crying at all I feel like a little tingle in my eye, but I did cut up the roots of that onion the goal here is to get you know, like a bunch of onion pieces and I'm starting to feel it now, okay drizzle some Olive oil and add the onions. oh My god I literally forgot an ingredient this whole time I forgot an ingredient We're gonna need red wine vinegar to caramelize the onions just pretend that I said that you needed this back in the beginning of the video oh No, the pizza's done. hey Google, off oh my god that looks amazing I'm literally a chef. Okay, since this is done so early I'm gonna just put a piece of aluminum foil over it and so now it's time to add the carmelization ingredients which includes one tablespoon of red wine vinegar One tablespoon of honey and then as many of these as you like I like spicy spicy Okay, here we go guys the moment of truth the finishing element Done oh my god that looks good the finishing touch is just sprinkling on some more cheese There we go I'm so excited to eat those. This looks so good. I'm so excited the fruits of my labor It's so crazy how you can only watch me eat this you can't taste it. You can even smell it like Wow, I'm sorry, but you guys are really missing out. Okay, she's cuts and now The moment of truth. Oh my god Wow Oh my god, oh my god, did I really make this Wow? It's like making me sad, how good this is? Yeah, this is amazing. I Just got sauce on my pants. Well guys That's the end of this video If you guys want to learn more about how Best Buy can help you create your own Connected home then make sure to click the link in the description of this video Or you could just go to your local Best Buy store and talk to a blue shirt expert because they are always there to help Please support Best Buy and check out the link cuz they support me and what I do on this channel So let's return the love to them. And also I hope you guys like this video. I hope you made you laugh I hope I made you happy. I hope you like the cooking videos If you do that Make sure to give this video a big thumbs up because it really lets me know that and also leave a comment down below letting me know if you want me to do these more frequently cause I get a lot of requests to do cooking videos on Twitter and Like I would love to so yeah Just let me know and if you do want to see more then leave a comment down below of what you want to see me Cook next but yeah, I think that is pretty much it Thank you guys so much for watching and I will see you all next Saturday with another new video. Bye 