RISK FACTORSOur operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning new products, product development and offerings of products and services, market positioning, distribution and sales channels, our partners and other strategic or technology relationships, financial information and results of operations for future periods, product and price competition, strategy and growth initiatives, seasonal factors, natural disasters, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, investment transactions and valuations of investments and derivative instruments, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tax matters, acquisitions, stock repurchases, changes in accounting rules or guidance, changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions and credit markets, delays or reductions in technology purchases, liquidity, litigation matters, and intellectual property matters constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYOur business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain as companies continue to reassess their spending for technology projects. If our current and prospective customers engage in restructuring and other efforts to cut costs they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we do not develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: •rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changes in customer requirements; and •frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and services, integrate acquired products and services, and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. The emerging markets for our next generation of products and services have yet to be defined. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments, expectations of the emerging markets and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: •delays in our introduction of new products and services; •delays in market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; •our failure to maintain relevance in the evolving marketplace; and 14•our, or a competitor's, announcement of new product or service enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. We believe the demand for technology has and will continue to shift from the types of products and services we and our competitors have sold in the past to a new generation of products we now offer. We cannot guarantee that our Mobile and Desktop, Networking and Cloud and Collaboration and Data products will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel and strategic partners, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Adverse changes in general global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.As a globally operated company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. The worldwide economy underwent unprecedented turmoil in the past four years and continues to experience stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, financial instability related to the sovereign debt situation in Europe, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and economic uncertainties. Although some of these conditions appear to be abating, there are a number of mixed indicators, the severity and length of time these economic and market conditions may persist is unknown, and the rate and pace of recovery in individual economies is also uncertain. The continuing uncertainty about future global economic conditions could negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases. As a result, we could experience fewer orders, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business.Our Desktop Virtualization products are an alternative to the traditional way of managing desktops, and the growing market for this line of products and services remains uncertain and may result in slower revenue growth than we have historically experienced.Our Desktop Virtualization products are based on an alternative technology platform, the success of which will depend on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting desktop virtualization solutions. Although we have experienced success with this platform, the market for our Desktop Virtualization products remains uncertain because customers may experience challenges in implementing desktop virtualization as they may create complex deployments. In addition, our primary competition in desktop virtualization is the existing IT practice of managing physical desktops as devices, and the success of our Desktop Virtualization products will depend on information technology executives' continuing to rethink how desktops can be delivered more effectively and efficiently. To the extent that there is slower adoption of desktop virtualization solutions, the revenue growth associated with our Desktop Virtualization products may be slower than we have historically experienced, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We anticipate that sales of our Desktop Virtualization products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Declines and variability in demand for our Desktop Virtualization products could occur as a result of: •new competitive product releases and updates to existing products;•termination of our product offerings and enhancements;15•potential market saturation;•technological change;•general economic conditions; •complexities and cost in implementation; •failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;•dissatisfied customers; or•lack of success of entities with which we have a technology relationship. In addition, there continues to be an increase to the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed by desktops and laptops, which in turn may shrink the market for our Desktop Virtualization products.If our customers do not continue to purchase our Desktop Virtualization products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modification or termination of certain of our Desktop Virtualization products may cause variability in our revenue and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends in our Desktop Virtualization products as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. For example, our ability to market our Mobile and Desktop products and other future product offerings and upgrades, could be affected by a competitor's packaging, licensing and pricing scheme for client devices, servers and applications. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. In addition, alternatives for our Mobile and Desktop and Networking and Cloud products directly and indirectly compete with our current product lines and services. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our products and services, especially those products in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, mobile and related industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving desktop and application virtualization, collaboration and data sharing, mobility, cloud networking and cloud platform markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our virtualization, mobility and collaboration and data sharing solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Use of our products and services may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of products, computers, computer networks and data storage resources is a critical issue for us and our customers, as security breaches could result in product or service vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities in our products and services through engineering more secure products and services, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and services, deploying security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seeking to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Experienced 16hackers, cybercriminals and perpetrators of advanced persistent threats may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services, our networks or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, services and networks. However, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in:•harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our products or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our products or services, or use competing products or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•state or federal enforcement action, which could result in fines and/or penalties and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or•additional costs associated with responding to the cyberattack, such as the costs of providing individuals and/or data owners with notice of the breach, legal fees, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by credit card associations, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.Regulation of the Web and telecommunications, privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our Collaboration and Data products and result in increased compliance costs. As Web commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies and industry groups becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes on Web-based services, such as collaboration and data sharing services and audio services, or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our Collaboration and Data products and our results of operations.Our Data Sharing products may involve the storage and transmission of protected health information, or PHI, that is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA, amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH ACT, has significantly increased the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. As a result of the HITECH ACT, business associates who have access to PHI provided by hospitals, healthcare providers, health insurance companies and other covered entities are now directly subject to HIPAA, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. We are required to comply with HIPAA's stringent data security requirement and we may be liable for sanctions and penalties for any failure to so comply. Furthermore, we may be required to incur additional expenses in order to comply with the HITECH Act and any further amendments to and/or modifications of these requirements.In addition, the establishment and operation of Citrix Communications, LLC, our competitive local exchange and interexchange carrier, subjects us to risks associated with owning and operating a federally regulated telecommunications entity. In 2012, in an effort to increase the user audio quality experience of our Collaboration products, we registered Citrix Communications which allows us to control the audio function of our Collaboration products and competes with established local telephone companies by providing its own network and switching. We can also route telecommunications traffic to the most cost effective data centers resulting in cost savings. Our failure to comply with applicable law, regulations or reporting requirements could result in monetary penalties or revocations of our authority to provide telephone services. Changes in federal or state regulations or interpretations of FCC orders could result in an increase to our compliance costs, have an adverse 17effect on our cost structure or negatively impact the right to use access circuits currently available to us. This could also result in a decline in customer use and adversely affect sales of our Collaboration products and our results of operations.Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may experience outages, data loss and service disruptions of our Collaboration and Data products and Networking and Cloud products, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The increasing user traffic and complexity of our Collaboration and Sharing products and Networking and Cloud products demands more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to adequately resource our Collaboration and Data products and Networking and Cloud products and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle the increased traffic of our collaboration and data products. Maintaining and expanding the capacity and geographic footprint of our infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary service outages and temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the perceived quality and reliability of our services, and result in liability claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our long sales cycle for Desktop Virtualization and Bytemobile Smart Capacity products could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Desktop Virtualization products on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because: •our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale;  •our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; •our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and •before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. Our long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers' business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.Similarly, our Bytemobile Smart Capacity products have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and the timing of the related revenue is difficult to predict. Because our sales of Bytemobile Smart Capacity products are focused on the telecommunications market, we are subject to lengthy internal budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that such customers generally require.In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and are generally highest in our fourth fiscal quarter which we believe is due to the lapse of customers' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. 18Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further access large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and access large enterprise customers by adding effective value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs and expanding our direct sales teams and consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and purchase of multiple years of subscription and maintenance up-front and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. By allowing these customers to purchase multiple years of subscription or maintenance up-front and by granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, we may need to invest in resources to coordinate among channel partners and internal sales, engineering and consulting resources and increase corporate branding and marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits.Changes to our licensing or subscription renewal programs, or bundling of our products, could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including promotional trade-up programs or offering specified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period, including offering additional products in a SaaS model. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts, promotions and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Further, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue that we receive from the sale of certain bundled products, if we have not established vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, for the undelivered elements in the arrangement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. A delay in the recognition of revenue from sales of these bundled products may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. Similarly, companies that we acquire may operate with different cost and margin structures, which could further cause fluctuations in our operating results and adversely affect our operating margins. Moreover, if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected.Sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance products constitute a large portion of our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales and renewals of our license updates and maintenance products will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our deferred revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our license updates and maintenance products will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. A decrease in demand for our license updates and maintenance products could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Mobile and Desktop products and our Networking and Cloud products. If our customers do not continue to purchase our license updates and maintenance products, our deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.As we expand our international footprint, we could become subject to additional risks that could harm our business.We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived approximately 45.3% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our inter