RISK FACTORSOur operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning the impact of the global economy and uncertainty in the IT spending environment; the success and growth of our product lines, including transitions in the markets for our desktop virtualization and collaboration products and services; our ability to develop and commercialize new products and services, including enterprise mobility and cloud platform products, while growing our established virtualization, networking and collaboration products and services; disruptions due to changes and transitions in key personnel and succession risks, including but not limited to risks related to the timing and outcome of our CEO search; the introduction of new products by competitors or the entry of new competitors into the markets for our products and services; changes in our revenue mix towards products and services with lower gross margins; seasonal fluctuations in our business; failure to execute our sales and marketing plans; failure to successfully partner with key distributors, resellers, system integrators, service providers and strategic partners and the company's reliance on and the success of those partners for the marketing and distribution of our products; our ability to maintain and expand our business in small sized and large enterprise accounts; the size, timing and recognition of revenue from significant orders; the success of investments in our product groups, foreign operations and vertical and geographic markets; our ability to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future; risks associated with acquisitions, including failure to further develop and successfully market the technology and products of acquired companies, failure to achieve or maintain anticipated revenues and operating performance contributions from acquisitions, which could dilute earnings, the retention of key employees from acquired companies, difficulties and delays integrating personnel, operations, technologies and products, disruption to our ongoing business and diversion of management's attention from our ongoing business; the recruitment and retention of qualified employees; risks in effectively controlling operating expenses, including failure to manage untargeted expenses; the effect of new accounting pronouncements on revenue and expense recognition; the risks associated with securing data and maintaining security of our networks and customer data stored by our services; failure to comply with federal, state and international regulations; litigation and disputes, including challenges to our intellectual property rights or allegations of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; the inability to further innovate our technology or enter into new businesses due to the intellectual property rights of others; changes in our pricing and licensing models, promotional programs and product mix, all of which may impact revenue recognition; charges in the event of the impairment of acquired assets, investments or licenses; international market readiness, execution and other risks associated with the markets for our products and services; unanticipated changes in tax rates, non-renewal of tax credits or exposure to additional tax liabilities; risks of political and social turmoil constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYOur business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our products and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain and highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, big data and social solutions. If our current and prospective customers cut costs they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers shift their information technology spending more rapidly towards newer technologies and solutions, the demand for our products and services most aligned with legacy platforms (such as our Desktop Virtualization products) could decrease. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14If we do not develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: •rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs; and •frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and services, integrate acquired products and services, and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. The emerging markets for our next generation of products and services have yet to be defined. The introduction of third-party solutions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software solutions obsolete and unmarketable. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments of third parties, expectations of the emerging markets and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: •delays in our introduction of new products and services; •delays in market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; •our failure to support services in a timely manner;•our failure to identify and address significant product quality issues;•our inability to position our and/or price our products and services to meet the market demand;•our failure to maintain relevance in the evolving marketplace; and •third party’s introduction of new products, or services or technologies that could replace, make obsolete or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. We believe the demand for technology has and will continue to shift from the types of products and services we and our competitors have sold in the past to a new generation of products and services. We cannot guarantee that our Enterprise Mobility Management and Desktop and Application Virtualization products, Cloud Platform and Cloud Networking products and Collaboration and Data products will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel and strategic partners, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers the most current and desired product and services features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may be less costly or, especially with respect to our Collaboration and Data Products, free, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. Additionally, there is a risk that our products may become outdated or that our market share may erode. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our products and services, especially those products in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, networking, mobile, collaboration, data sharing and related industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets. As our businesses continue to expand globally, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in certain of our businesses increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors which for certain of our businesses may include small and medium sized businesses or larger more established companies. Smaller companies new to our market have more flexibility to develop on more agile platforms and have greater ability to adapt their strategy and cost  15structures which may give them a competitive advantage with our current or prospective customers. We may also see increased competition from new types of products as the options for mobile and cloud, networking and collaboration and data sharing solutions increase. Further, as our industry evolves and our company grows, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas or our current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures we face. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competitors in different geographic regions.In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of products in our industry. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring may harm our business and results of operations.Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. In January 2014, we announced that Mark B. Templeton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, intends to retire within the next year. There are no assurances concerning the timing or outcome of our search for a new Chief Executive Officer. Our ability to execute our business strategies and attract and retain key executives may be adversely affected by the uncertainty associated with the transition to a successor CEO.Adverse changes in general global economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results.As a globally operated company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. Continued economic uncertainty across all geographic locations may adversely affect sales of our products and services and may result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of technologies and increased price competition. Additionally, in response to sustained economic uncertainty, many national and local governments that are current or prospective customers for our products and services have also made, or announced plans to make, significant spending cutbacks which could reduce the amount of government spending on IT and the potential demand for our products and services from government organizations. Adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business.Our Desktop and Application Virtualization products are an alternative to the traditional way of managing desktops, and various factors could cause this line of products and services to result in slower revenue growth than we have historically experienced.The success of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products depends in part on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting desktop and application virtualization solutions. Although we have experienced success with this platform, some customers may experience challenges in implementing desktop and application virtualization due to complexity as they may create complex deployments. In addition, our primary competition in desktop and application virtualization is the existing IT practice of managing physical desktops as devices, and the success of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products may depend on information technology executives' continuing to rethink how desktops can be delivered more effectively and efficiently. To the extent that there is slower adoption of desktop and application virtualization solutions, the revenue growth associated with our Desktop and Application Virtualization products may be slower than we have historically experienced, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We anticipate that sales of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Declines and variability in demand for our Desktop and Application Virtualization products could occur as a result of:  16•new competitive product releases and updates to existing products;•industry trend to focus on the delivery of applications especially on mobile devices;•introduction of potential disruptive technology by third parties;•termination of our product offerings and enhancements;•potential market saturation;•technological change;•general economic conditions; •complexities and cost in implementation; •failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;•dissatisfied customers; or•lack of success of entities with which we have a technology relationship. In addition, there continues to be an increase to the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed by desktops and laptops, which in turn may reduce the market for our Desktop and Application Virtualization products.If our customers do not continue to purchase our Desktop and Application Virtualization products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modification or termination of certain of our Desktop and Application Virtualization products may cause variability in our revenue and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends in our Desktop and Application Virtualization products as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving desktop and application virtualization, collaboration and data sharing, mobility, cloud networking and cloud platform markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our virtualization, mobility and collaboration and data sharing solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Use of our products and services may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business and personally identifiable information. Thus, maintaining the security of products, computer networks and data storage resources is important as security breaches could result in product or service vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our products and services through our efforts to engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features in our products and services, deploy security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seeking to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. Despite our preventive efforts, last year unauthorized parties have penetrated certain of our systems leading to the revocation of a code signing certificate in August 2013. Generally speaking, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that attack our products and services, our networks or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, services and networks. Because techniques used by these perpetrators to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches. A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in (among other consequences): 17•harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our products or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our products or services, or use competing products or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us or the payment of settlement amounts, which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•state or federal enforcement action, which could result in fines and/or penalties or other sanctions and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or•in the event that we or one of our customers were the victim of a cyberattack or other security breach, additional costs associated with responding to such breach, such as investigative and remediation costs, and the costs of providing data owners or others with notice of the breach, legal fees, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by such customers' credit card issuers, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations.Regulation of the Web and telecommunications, privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our products and result in increased compliance costs. As Web commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies and industry groups becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes on Web-based services, such as collaboration and data sharing services and audio services, or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our products and our results of operations.Our Collaboration and Data products may involve the storage and transmission of protected health information, or PHI, that is subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA, amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH ACT, has significantly increased the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under HIPAA. As a result of the HITECH ACT, business associates who have access to PHI provided by hospitals, healthcare providers, health insurance companies and other covered entities are now directly subject to HIPAA, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. To the extent, we are required to comply with HIPAA's stringent data security requirement, we may be liable for sanctions and penalties for any failure to so comply. Furthermore, we may be required to incur additional expenses in order to comply with the HITECH Act and any further amendments to and/or modifications of these requirements.Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped.Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18We may experience outages, data loss and service disruptions of our Collaboration and Data products and Cloud Platform and Cloud Networking products, which could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.The increasing user traffic and complexity of our Collaboration and Data products, specifically those using Voice over Internet protocol and high-definition video conferencing features, and Cloud Platform and Cloud Networking products demands more computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to adequately resource our Collaboration and Data products and Cloud Platform and Cloud Networking products and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle the increased traffic of our collaboration and data products. Maintaining and expanding the capacity and geographic footprint of our infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary service outages and temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the perceived quality and reliability of our services, and result in liability claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Certain of the offerings from our Enterprise and Service Provider division have sales cycles which are long and/or unpredictable which could cause significant variability and unpredictability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Desktop and Application Virtualization products on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because: •our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; •our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; •our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and •before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. Our long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers' business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.Similarly, our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and the timing of the related revenue is difficult to predict. Because sales of our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions are focused on the telecommunications market, we are subject to lengthy internal budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that such customers generally require.Overall the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our quarterly sales have historically reflected an uneven pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and are generally highest in our fourth fiscal quarter which we believe is due to the lapse of customers' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensa