BUSINESSBusiness OverviewCitrix is a Delaware corporation incorporated on April 17, 1989. Our mission is to power a world where people, organizations and things are securely connected and accessible to make the extraordinary possible. We help customers reimagine the future of work by providing a comprehensive securedigital workspace that unifies the apps, data and services people need to be productive, and simplifies IT’s ability to adoptand manage complex cloud environments.Digital transformation is occurring in every industry at a rapid pace. Businesses today are adopting cloud services and software as a service, or SaaS, apps on a broad basis. Many businesses are juggling multiple cloud providers and dozens of new SaaS apps. Yet, we believe many organizations are expected to have a majority of their workloads still running on-premises in five years. This combination of increased complexity with mobility and new workstyles results in a fragmented user experience, an increase in security risks, and IT teams challenged to properly manage the technology needs of organizations. As a result of this convergence of cloud, legacy systems, and newer technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine learning, organizations are now seeking to adopt multi-cloud, hybrid-cloud strategies for their IT infrastructure, so that they can provide flexibility to navigate all systems and security to address ever-expanding attack surfaces, all without sacrificing experience for their end users.As we continue to pursue our mission to power a world where people, organizations and things are securely connected and accessible, we are focused on three strategic initiatives. First, we are accelerating our move to a subscription-based business model and to offer all of our solutions from the cloud to give organizations flexibility in how they work. Second, we are unifying our portfolio to simplify user and IT experience. Finally, to help meet the expected demands of the future, we are expanding our networking capabilities to provide a secure digital perimeter and broader analytics services.We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers and direct over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers, or VARs known as Citrix Solution Advisors, value-added distributors, or VADs, systems integrators, or SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs and Citrix Service Providers, or CSPs.Separation of GoTo BusinessOn January 31, 2017, we completed the separation and subsequent merger of the GoTo family of service offerings of our wholly-owned subsidiary, GetGo, Inc., or GetGo, to LogMeIn, Inc., or LogMeIn, pursuant to a pro rata distribution to our stockholders of 100% of the shares of common stock of GetGo, pursuant to a Reverse Morris Trust, or RMT, transaction. The GoTo family of service offerings consisted of GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining, GoToMyPC, GoToAssist, Grasshopper and OpenVoice, or collectively the GoTo Business, and had historically been part of our GoTo Business segment. As a result, the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and related financial information reflect the GoTo Business operations, assets and liabilities, and cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information.Subscription Model TransitionIn 2017, we announced our intent to transition to a subscription-based business model, and we began offering our customers the option to purchase our solutions as a subscription, whereby a fee is paid for continuous access to our software or the right to use our software and receive support for a specified period. We expect our transition to a subscription-based business model to provide financial and operational benefits to Citrix: increasing customer life-time-value, expanding our customer use-cases and innovation opportunities, and extending the use of Citrix services to securely deliver a broader array of applications, including Web, SaaS apps and services.  3Products and ServicesWe are enabling the future of work by delivering digital workspace, networking, and analytics solutions that help customers drive innovation and be productive anytime, anywhere. Our unified, contextual and secure digital workspace enables customers to deliver and manage the apps, desktops, data and devices users need. Our customers can realize the full benefits of hybrid- and multi-cloud environments while simplifying management and overcoming security challenges. Our solutions and services target customers of all sizes, from small businesses to large global enterprises. From time to time, we may evaluate the naming and/or classification of our product groupings in order to appropriately reflect the current state of the business. Our secure digital workspace technologies are available as cloud services and can be managed as hybrid and multi-cloud environments. Our cloud-based services enable our customers to provide a flexible way to manage their applications and data. This cloud-based approach is designed to provide reduced infrastructure, centralized control and SaaS-style updates resulting in lower administration cost and complexity. These services include XenApp and XenDesktop service, XenMobile service, ShareFile service and NetScaler Gateway service and are available as an integrated service or as individual services scaled to meet our customers’ business needs. We offer perpetual, subscription-based and on-premise subscription software licenses for our solutions, along with annual subscriptions for software updates, technical support and SaaS. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while on-premise subscription licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Software maintenance subscriptions, or Customer Success Services, give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software comes primarily in electronic-based forms. We also offer on-premise subscription licenses to service providers through the Citrix Service Provider program, which are invoiced on a monthly basis or based on reported license usage. Our services delivered via the cloud are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.Workspace ServicesApplication Virtualization and VDIOur Application Virtualization and VDI solutions give employees the freedom to work from anywhere while cutting IT costs, securely delivering Windows, Linux, Web and SaaS apps, plus full virtual desktops to any device. •XenDesktop is a fully-integrated, cloud-enabled desktop virtualization solution that gives customers the flexibility to deliver desktops and applications as a service - from any cloud, on-premises datacenters or both. XenDesktop includes HDX technologies to give users a high-definition experience - even when using multimedia, real-time voice and video collaboration, USB devices and 3D graphics content - while consuming less bandwidth than competing solutions. XenDesktop is available in multiple editions designed for different requirements, from simple VDI-only deployments to sophisticated, enterprise-class desktop and application delivery services that can meet the needs of everything from basic call center environments to high-powered graphics workstations. In XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum editions, customers also receive XenApp to manage and mobilize Windows applications.•XenApp is a widely deployed solution that allows Windows applications to be delivered as services to Android and iOS mobile devices, Macs, PCs and thin clients from any cloud, on-premises datacenter or both. XenApp enables people to work better by running applications in the security of the data center, or cloud, and using HDX technologies to deliver a superior user experience to any device, anywhere. XenApp optimizes the application experience for smartphones, tablets and touchscreen laptops, providing intuitive touch capabilities for the latest generation of devices. Keeping applications under the centralized control of IT administrators enhances data security and reduces the costs of managing applications on every PC. XenApp runs on all current versions of Microsoft Windows Server and tightly integrates with Microsoft Azure, the Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack, Microsoft App-V, and Microsoft System Center. Our joint solution with Microsoft lowers the cost of delivering and maintaining Windows applications for all users in the enterprise. Enterprise Mobility Management Increasingly, for many employees, mobile devices are their workspaces. Our XenMobile solutions are designed to increase productivity and security with mobile device management, or MDM, mobile application management, or MAM, mobile content management, or MCM, secure network gateway, and enterprise-grade mobile apps in one comprehensive solution.•XenMobile provides unified endpoint management for a secure digital workspace allowing IT to meet mobile device  4security and compliance requirements for "bring your own device" programs and corporate devices while enabling user productivity. As part of a workspace, XenMobile centralizes the management of mobile devices, traditional desktops, laptops and Internet of Things, or IoT, through a single platform. XenMobile directly integrates with Microsoft EMS/Intune to extend the mobility and device management capabilities.Citrix WorkspaceWe offer customers the opportunity to acquire our mobility, desktop and app solutions through a single comprehensive integrated offering, Citrix Workspace, which includes our XenApp, XenDesktop, XenMobile, ShareFile and NetScaler products. Citrix Workspace securely delivers the apps, desktops, branch networking and WAN, enterprise mobility management and data people need for business productivity. We offer one of the industry’s most complete and integrated digital workspaces that is streamlined for IT control and easily accessible for users. •Citrix Workspace delivers a unified user experience for any app or desktop on any device, including tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs or thin clients. IT can securely deliver content over low-bandwidth high-latency WANs, highly variable 3G/4G mobile networks or a reliable corporate LAN to improve end-user experience while offering enterprise-grade security to data and applications. Citrix Workspace provides a unified, flexible solution that can streamline device, application and desktop deployment and lifecycle management to reduce IT costs. Citrix Workspace offers choice of device, cloud and network and can be deployed on-premises, via the cloud or as a hosted service.NetworkingOur Networking products allow organizations to deliver apps and data with the security, reliability, and speed trusted by thousands of customers worldwide.•NetScaler ADC is a software-defined application delivery controller, or ADC, and load balancer designed to improve application performance and reliability for mobile, remote and branch users; allow customers to transition their infrastructure to an app-driven, software-defined network; eliminate multiple remote access solutions for improved security; and consolidate data centers for greater efficiency. Additionally, we extend the platform with best-of-breed web application firewall, or WAF, capabilities that protects web applications and sites from both known and unknown attacks, including application-layer and zero-day threats.•NetScaler SD-WAN increases the security, performance and reliability of traditional enterprise applications, SaaS applications and virtual desktops for remote users. It is an integrated platform that can help customers effectively and economically increase WAN throughput while accelerating enterprise applications and ensuring the performance and availability of mission critical applications through a hybrid WAN architecture.Content CollaborationOur Content Collaboration offering meets the collaboration and mobility needs of users, with scalable data security requirements for small business to the enterprise. •ShareFile is a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built for mobile business, giving users enterprise-class data services across all corporate and personal mobile devices, while maintaining total IT control. ShareFile protects data throughout the storage and transfer process, using up to 256-bit encryption and SSL or Transport Layer Security, or TLS encryption protocols for transfer and 256-bit encryption for files at rest on ShareFile servers. Password protection and granular access to folders and files stored with ShareFile ensure that data remains in control of the company. With ShareFile Enterprise, organizations can manage their data on-premises in customer managed StorageZones, select Citrix managed secure cloud options or create a mix of both to meet the needs for data sovereignty, compliance, performance and costs. Additionally, ShareFile supports e-signature, feedback and approval workflows that help businesses adopt the mobile, digital office.License Updates and MaintenanceDesigned to prevent business downtime, we offer technical support that provides anytime access to expertise, plus product version updates and upgrades. We provide several support options for customers and partners to choose from.•Customer Success Services for our software solutions, which gives customers a choice of tiered support offerings that combine the elements of product version upgrades, guidance, enablement, support and proactive monitoring to help our customers and our partners fully realize their business goals and get the most out of their Citrix investments. Additionally, customers may upgrade to receive personalized support from a dedicated team led by an assigned account manager. Fees associated with this offering are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. 5•Hardware Maintenance for our Networking products, which gives customers a choice of tiered support offerings that includes technical support, latest software upgrades, and replacement of malfunctioning appliances to minimize organizational downtime. Additionally, dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program for an even higher level of service. Fees associated with this offering are recognized ratably over the term of the contract.Professional Services We provide a portfolio of professional services to our business partners and customers to manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees paid on an annual or transactional basis.•Citrix Consulting helps guide the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions through the use of proven methodologies, tools and leading practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. These engagements are typically fee-based engagements for the most challenging projects in scope and complexity, requiring consultants who are qualified with project methodology and Citrix expertise. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for the development of best practice knowledge that is disseminated to businesses with which we have a business relationship and end-users through training and written documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers.•Product Training & Certification helps enable our customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve their business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available when and how it is needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering training in a classroom or remote setting at one of our Citrix Authorized Learning Centers, or CALCs, worldwide. CALCs are staffed with instructors that have been certified by us and teach their students using Citrix-developed courseware. Self-Paced Online offerings, available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provide technically robust course content without an instructor and include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications validate key skills and are available for administrators, engineers, architects and sales professionals. Technology Our solutions are based on a full range of core proprietary technologies and certain industry-standard open source technologies.•Citrix HDX Technologies is a family of innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application environments. These technologies incorporate our ICA protocol, which consists of server- and client-side technology that allows graphical user interfaces to be transmitted securely over any network, and includes optimizations for multimedia, unified communications, high-end graphics and mobile networks which work together to provide a high-definition user experience across a wide array of applications, devices and networks. •NetScaler nCore Technology is an architecture that enables execution of multiple packet engines in parallel. nCore technology allows the distribution of packet flows across multiple central processing unit cores to achieve efficient, high-performance parallel processing across multiple packet engines. The architecture incorporates innovations in flow distribution and state sharing and provides for efficient execution across packet engines.•XenMobile is our foundational technology that delivers a holistic mobile computing platform for enterprises. Its main components include MDM, MAM, MCM, UEM, end-to-end security and a set of mobile productivity apps including secure email, corporate app store, Web browsing, data sharing, secure note taking and document editing on a host of mobile platforms including iOS, Android and Windows mobile.Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique innovations that are important enablers of our continued leadership in application virtualization, VDI and networking. Customers We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to our solutions are the following:•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers, chief information security officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost. 6•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.•Directors of Messaging and Mobility, who are, respectively, responsible for messaging technologies and defining mobile strategies and solutions for securing and managing mobile devices including their content and applications. •Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications. •Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.•Individuals and prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small businesses select simple-to-use computing solutions.•Small business owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.•Chief technology officer and engineering department (managers and architects, among others) for telecommunications service providers.•Line of business and functional executives that determine the need for our cloud and subscription-based offerings at certain enterprises.•Chief information officer and engineering departments within service providers, using our solutions to deliver desktops and applications as hosted cloud services.The IT buyers for our solutions include a wide variety of industries including those in financial services, technology, healthcare, education, government and telecom.Technology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future solutions and our go-to-market initiatives. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, resell, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. Microsoft For over 25 years, Citrix and Microsoft have maintained a strategic partnership spanning product development, go-to-market initiatives and partner development, with the goal of helping customers to enable secure delivery of applications and data on any device, wherever they go. Over the past two years, the two companies have expanded that collaboration to help our joint customers make the transition from delivering apps and desktops using an on-premises IT infrastructure approach to a hybrid and cloud IT infrastructure model. Citrix and Microsoft are offering services that enable customers to deploy Windows 10 desktops on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform, services to deploy apps directly on Azure, and smart tools to simplify the deployment of new workspaces. In addition, the partnership is extending to Citrix mobility and network management products and services that complement Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security (EMS) and provide comprehensive security and value for Citrix and Microsoft customers. This next-generation model encompasses not just the Microsoft platform but extends to enable customers to leverage other platforms to deliver the best experiences through Citrix and Microsoft technologies.NutanixCitrix and Nutanix have a joint secure and scalable hyper-converged infrastructure solution that delivers a strong user experience and value while reducing infrastructure complexity. Nutanix extended their solution and announced InstantOn for our cloud solutions. This solution enables fast, easy delivery of secure digital workspaces for today’s hybrid cloud world. By combining Nutanix scale-as-you-grow architecture with the cloud simplicity of XenApp and XenDesktop Service, customers can reduce ongoing costs, alleviate infrastructure complexity, and deliver high-performance access to applications and desktops to every user.GoogleWe expanded our multi-year partnership with Google to help deliver secure, cloud-based applications to enterprise customers, to help organizations solve their requirements for secure digital workspaces and to seamlessly and confidently accelerate their secure cloud transformation. We continue to build on our successful partnership to deliver secure, virtual business applications to Chrome OS and Android devices, in addition to extending ShareFile connectors and workflows to Google G-Suite and Drive. With Citrix Workspace solutions and NetScaler CPX running workloads on Google Cloud Platform, we are bringing cloud delivery of applications and desktops to enterprise customers who are increasingly looking to public and hybrid clouds to address competitive demands and to solve business challenges. 7Additional Relationships Our partners continue to expand their focus on the broad range of our solutions. We have continued to invest in our Global System Integrator partnerships, with organizations including IBM, DXC, and Fujitsu, that have multiple offerings in the market with Citrix Workspace and Citrix Networking solutions. We extended our 20+ year alliance with Hewlett Packard Enterprise and entered into a three-year strategic partnership agreement to extend our leadership in the secure delivery of apps and data by building innovative solutions and services leveraging the full Citrix software stack and our cloud solution. We launched a partnership with Samsung to deliver secure access to digital workspaces, bringing enterprise apps and data to any Samsung DeX enabled mobile device. We also have established relationships with Intel and NVIDIA that complement the benefits provided by our solutions. Supporting our customers and a multi-cloud strategy, we expanded our partnership with Amazon Workspace Services and in 2017, announced support for Citrix customers utilizing Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. Through our Citrix Ready program, we help customers find Citrix-compatible products for their organization. The program is trusted by customers, providing them choice and confidence when identifying and choosing Citrix verified partner products critical to solving their business needs. The Citrix Ready partner community is highly active and takes advantage of numerous programs to incorporate our solutions and technologies into their solutions, including Citrix Receiver, HDX, XenDesktop, XenApp, NetScaler, ShareFile, XenMobile and our cloud solution. Our Citrix Receiver and HDX technologies are often included with thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices, such as Apple's iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile, and Google Android and Chrome devices.Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new solutions and core technologies in our core markets and to further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel distributors. We believe that our software development teams and our core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in the software development teams are individuals focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services technologies, management standards and Microsoft's newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in Extensible Markup Language, or XML, based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, cloud technologies, networking technologies and building SaaS. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $415.8 million in 2017, $395.4 million in 2016 and $481.0 million in 2015.Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers and direct over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers known as Citrix Solution Advisors, VADs, SIs, ISVs, OEMs, and CSPs. Distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. Partners receive training and certification opportunities to support our portfolio of solutions and services.  We reward our partners that identify new business, and provide sales expertise, services delivery, customer education, technical implementation and support of our portfolio of solutions through our incentive program. We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners, and building capacity through targeted recruitment, introducing programs to increase partner mindshare, limit channel conflict and increase partner loyalty to us.As we lead with the cloud, we have been cultivating a global base of technology partners within our Citrix Service Provider, or CSP, program. Our CSP program provides subscription-based services in which the CSP partners host software services to their end users. Our CSP partners, consisting of managed service providers, ISVs, hosting providers and telcos, among others, license our desktop, application, networking and enterprise mobility management solutions on a monthly consumption basis. With our software, these partners then create differentiated offers of their own, consisting of cloud-hosted applications and cloud-hosted desktops, which they manage for various customers, ranging from SMBs to enterprise IT. Besides supplying technology, we are actively engaged in assisting these partners in developing their hosted businesses either within their respective data centers or leveraging public cloud infrastructure by supplying business and marketing assistance. Engagement with SIs and ISVs continues to be a substantial part of our strategic roadmap within large enterprise and government markets. Our integrator partnerships include organizations such as Atos, Accenture, Avanade, Capgemini, Dimension Data, DXC, Fujitsu, IBM Global Services, TCS and Wipro, who all deliver consultancy or global offerings powered by the Citrix Workspace. The ISV program maintains a strong representation across targeted industry verticals including  8healthcare, financial services and telecommunications. Members in the ISV program include Allscripts, Cerner Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation and McKesson Corporation, among several others. For all of our channels, we regularly take actions to improve the effectiveness of our partner programs and further strengthen our channel relationships through management of non-performing partners, recruitment of partners with expertise in selling into new markets and forming additional strategic global and national partnerships. Our corporate marketing organization provides sales and industry event support, digital and social marketing, sales enablement tools and collateral, advertising, direct mail, industry analyst relations and public relations coverage to market our solutions. Our efforts in marketing are focused on generating leads for our sales organization and our indirect channels to acquire net new accounts and expand our presence with existing customers. Our partner development organization actively supports our partners to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest customers, and coordinate integration services provided by our partners. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training with respect to our solutions. In fiscal year 2017 and 2016, two distributors, Ingram Micro and Arrow, accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In fiscal year 2015, two distributors, Ingram Micro and Arrow, accounted for 13% and 11%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro and Arrow consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for information regarding our revenue recognition policy.International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 46.3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, 46.3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 48.7% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. For detailed information on our international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.Segment RevenueWe previously organized our operations into two reportable segments. As a result of the separation of the GoTo Business, formerly a reportable segment, on January 31, 2017, we re-evaluated our operating segments and determined that we have one reportable segment. Our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Our Chief Executive Officer is the CODM. The results of the GoTo Business, formerly a reportable segment, are accounted for as discontinued operations in our consolidated statement of income for all pe