 Hi, my name is Samuel Trim and I'm a Senior Security Engineer here at Microsoft.  I've been here for over twelve years and have had the privilege and pleasure of working various parts of this company, such as Office, within Azure and now in Core Services Engineering Operations and, also it's been it's been great to be able to participate and build Microsoft's innovation communities and to be a philanthropist through Microsoft's GIVE campaign. Hi, I'm Patricia Donnellan and I'm a Senior Security Program Manager at Microsoft I've been here almost about twelve years and worked in security organizations across Microsoft including Azure and online services and corporate and I've been a huge participant in the GIVE campaign where Microsoft raises millions of dollars for non-profits in the US every year. This is a video series about an asset intelligence platform is Sam and I have built together, it's called Falcon. We're going to introduce you to Falcon and give you a little bit of information about what Falcon is all about. A few years ago Sam and I were challenged in helping to solve a big problem in security at Microsoft and it's kind of a cross industry in any company, but one of the pillars of security includes detection. We can't protect what we don't know is there, and so Sam and I we challenged with coming up with a new way of thinking about asset inventory and because assets have changed so much the last ten years, when you think of the Cloud, when you think of the multiple data centers, hundreds of data  centers across the world of every shape and size you can imagine with the Cloud sitting on top of that with every kind of asset from our laptops that we use our towers;  everything that's connected within the network as an asset can be counted but because those things, IP addresses, those are also assets, those change and fluctuate faster than you can even realize or imagine so Sam and I took a different approach with creating Falcon, an asset intelligence service so that we could detect our assets across the ecosystem at Microsoft in the billions. And how to detect them therefore allows us to protect them. So we know what needs to be patched, who's touching what machine and we thought of it really more as like constellations in the sky and there's so many that you can't necessarily see and they're  moving, and there's satellites that are orbiting around different artifacts. And so from that perspective, looking at the big-picture we were able to apply AI  to that and come up with a solution that's ground-breaking. When challenged with this very difficult problem of: How do you know what to protect? What is inventory landscape? A lot of different conversations   occurred, a lot different thoughts. And, to me what was very interesting was that, tying into my Amer-Indian  roots, we believe the concept of visions. And from that, there was a vision of  a Falcon and I asked one of the Native American leaders that I'm working with and said, "What does a falcon mean?"  And so then she told me that this is a very important spirit animal. When there are no answers. When there are no answers for questions that are that are troubling within your life, you ask the falcon to guide you towards the light. So I shared that with Patricia and said, "What do you think about this name?" and she was like, "You know what? I think this is right, it's meant to be." So from there, we created this AI based system which mines inventory signal across from various different systems  across Microsoft's ecosystem. This allows us to create several different graphs such as what is the collection of devices or hosts? What are the collection of people or identity's? What are their movements and what are their affinities to particular objects over time? And that concept is called the Orbital Graph. So that in a nutshell, leveraging technology across Azure, such as Azure SQL, using Azure data lake, and in some internal systems that do our internal compute, that's the builds up Falcon. 