 [MUSIC]  Driving every corner of our global economy is code. In this series, we look under the hood at today's most dynamic open-source software with the people behind it.  What is it that we really want to ask of our visual data?  Computer vision is trying to take the raw data seeing and turn it into useful perceptions for the computer.  Computer vision and machine learning are transforming the way we think about dermatology and skin health. In this episode, we'll go behind the scenes to get a first-hand look at OpenCV and meet its thought leaders, Gary Bradski and Grace Vesom. Then, we'll head to New York City to see how Nestle's dermatologists and scientists are changing the face of skin health with the power of data science and computer vision.  We'll be able to have cameras that know who you are and track everything. That world has to be built on open-source platforms and open data so that we have a level playing field for everyone and everyone knows what's going on.  It puts responsibility on all of us to make better products that are for the good.  This is Decoded. [MUSIC]  Welcome to Palo Alto, the center of it all. This stretch of Northern California is the home of Silicon Valley and an incredible number of startups. From its tree-lined streets to its rows of unassuming garage doors, tech is everywhere. Let's say hello to our next open-source duo, Gary and Grace. The leaders of OpenCV, they're going to tell us more about computer vision and the code behind it.  Well, welcome to Palo Alto, John. This is one of Silicon Valley's back alleys. So, area's full of startups. Like, right down here is a food delivery startup, across the street, the other side, is a robotic start-up, and right next to this is Arraiy working on AI in film production.  Very cool. Well, I'm really excited to get to spend some time with you, somebody who's had such an impact in the field of computer vision.  It's true. Gary's sort of the godfather of computer vision. He's a legend.  I don't know about that, but I am a believer in open source. So, I started this Open Source Computer Vision Library and the computer vision conference CVPR in 1999, and I've been driving it ever since. It turns out, a large percentage of the startups around here use it.  That's very cool. So, how did you get started on the project?  So, there are a lot of libraries around of various sorts. I thought mostly they were too complex. With that, my interest in vision, I started looking around and I saw that the state of vision was a mess. Every grad student was writing their own code, you couldn't reproduce it. So, I thought if I give everybody a common infrastructure, not only will accelerate the field, but it also helped the field by making the science repeatable. So, Grace is one of the ones who's helping with this expansion.  So, my role around Gary is two folds. For OpenCV, I help push for it by involving institutional partners and development. The other thing that we do, and I heavily push for, is creating opportunities for us to increase the variety of our algorithmic code base in hopes that if we do that, then we also increase usability.  What are people doing with it in the university setting and in the student setting?  Their PhDs because they can quickly download it, compile it, and start using the building blocks.  How about in the commercial space? I understand you're doing some work in the film industry.  Yeah. So, I'm taking these techniques, AI and computer vision, and applying it to the film industry. I founded Arraiy, which is right next door, to help automate production and help aid visual storytelling, make it easier, more scalable.  Yeah. I think Ethan's expecting us. Why don't we go say hi?  Sounds great.  Hey, Ethan.  Oh, hey, Grace.  So, what are you focused on here at Arraiy?  So, we're focused on leveraging computer vision and an OpenCV to re-imagine how films are made. We're giving artists superpowers with machine learning, computer vision.  How does OpenCV enter into this world of filmmakers?  From capturing camera data to doing segmentation. Grace is doing 3D reconstruction. All of us built on top of the Python and C++ libraries that come with OpenCV, and it just basically lets us rapidly get to the point where we're starting to do novel work.  Yeah. We use multiple 3D images of multiple cameras that we know are shot at a single timestamp, and we use the knowledge of those multiple cameras at one time and over time in order to build knowledge.  So, OpenCV is this open-source solution. How do you see the work you're doing at Arraiy being a profitable business built around that?  That's a great question. Our competitive mode is not one application or one function, it's the service as a whole array, it's the sum of all the parts. Open source is this neutral ground for multiple companies to contribute to.  Collaborate.  To collaborate. It takes effort and it takes people willing to basically pour their heart and soul into this.  And cash.  And cash. Yeah, right.  Can we see how this all comes together and how you make it work?  Okay. Grace and I are going to give you a little demo of our real-time calibration and validation.  Okay.  So, we have three cameras on a traditional cinema camera platform here, and so, Grace is holding a slate and it has some some 2D barcodes on it. So, what we've done here is, we have these three cameras and we're estimating the 3D position of the tags. So, hey, Grace, if you'll move it off camera a little bit so we see that we can still see the tags even though the main image [inaudible].  Wow, that's super cool. So, it knows the 3D geometry from this other work, and so, it can project it out even though it's not on film.  Yeah, exactly.  Well, thanks for showing me this. This was really cool. It's like you're making awesome progress, and we'll just see how that's all coming together.  Oh, it's very nice to meet you, John.  Thanks for coming by.  Yeah.  Good to meet you, John.  It's easy to imagine OpenCV being used in the film industry, but what about healthcare? Let's take a trip to the other coast and get a clear picture of how Nestle's dermatologists are changing the face of skincare with OpenCV. [MUSIC]  New York City, a place that needs a little introduction. This City of Dreams has long brought together diverse cultures and disciplines to enable innovation. Nestle Skin Health SHIELD headquarters is situated in the heart of Manhattan's medical corridor and it embodies this spirit. We'll sit down with some of the visionaries behind Nestle SHIELD to see how they're using computer vision to change the way we think about skin health.  Hi, John.  Hey, Warren.  Welcome to SHIELD.  Thanks. So, what is SHIELD? What do you do here?  Well, SHIELD is actually an acronym for Nestle Skin Health Investigation, Education, Longevity Development. We dream things and try to make them into reality.  What's your role in all this?  I'm the Senior Medical Director and Head of Medical Innovation here at SHIELD. The old way of doing research, it's really not efficient, it's not very creative, and so, what we decided to do, rather than building a traditional R&D type of organization, we decided to break down the walls of traditional R&D. We do work with dermatologists, we work with researchers, clinicians, but also we work with artists, photographers.  Wow.  Yeah.  That's cool.  And creative people.  So, what's it like bringing all these different kinds of people and thought leaders together in one place? Like, what kind of problems do you end up solving together?  When you bring people who come from different worlds like, let's say, data scientists and dermatologists together to really try to solve the problem of how do you get acne information in the hands of the average consumer, you can think of very creative ways of doing this. We've done that with the app ProactiveMe for example, designed to bring an algorithm of excellence about perhaps how a dermatologist might think in the hands of people with acne so they can help make decisions for themselves.  It's interesting. I brought Gary and Grace. They're some of the minds behind OpenCV, and I'm sure they're going to be excited to see how all this data works together.  That's really great. I'd like actually to introduce you to Dr. Laurent Chantalat, He is our Data Scientist, and he's worked very closely on the ProactiveMe app. [MUSIC]  Laura, can you tell us a little bit about the App and how it was put together. What are the pieces?  So, the App in fact is an acne tracking system that was developed with Microsoft teams. We used a selfie. We use OpenCV to get the right selfie because it has to be the right positioning, the right lighting.  This runs on an Android device?  It runs on Android at the moment.  Right.  Then we had developed a big piece of Machine Learning which will analyze the severity of your acne.  So right now we're capturing this is what your App may looks like, let's say. But here with this app you can say, well, now these interventions were done and these is the dynamics of good healing, bad healing and one of this stuff was possible to actually track before.  Grace, you do so much work with the OpenCV community. Does it surprise you to see OpenCV being used in a situation like this?  We used a lot with face tracking but to use it specifically in a product for tracking acne, that's definitely a new one.  Are there things about what you did with OpenCV that make it really easy to use in this environment?  The original thought was to build a tool that would advance the field so that everybody could read and run things. Then, the applications continue to surprise me, this is a new one.  Can you give us a little bit more overview on what you did from a Data Science perspective to make this happen?  So in fact we had to start with Dermatologists. Start with images. Then we had our colleagues, Dermatologist rating them according to the scale which is one to five. If you're five, it's very severe. If it's one, it's very mild. We had to have a golden set. We found out that it was a better results if you could split the face in four pieces, the forehead, the two cheeks, and the chin.  You need to have pretty good accuracy on what the face is which you're getting from OpenCV?  Of course. That was the key element.  Actually, I think it's amazing. Because the fact that you can actually have this level of expertise, really in the palm of your hands, no matter where you are. It just opens up the possibility of great skincare, great skin health to really anybody in the world. That for me as a dermatologist, that's extremely gratifying.  The great things that I see about an App like this given to everyday person and everyday user, is that they can see the flow of Computer Vision, AI, and Data Science being brought into their hands. Maybe we'll be a little bit more curious about the process. Maybe they might even look up the code. They can understand the difference between Open Source Code being used to help them. Then, data privacy to protect them.  I'm a big proponent of openness and the AI code base, so people can know what's in there. But at the same time, there's this issue of data privacy especially in healthcare. So how are you thinking about that for these kinds of Apps?  Well, we're very careful as to what we're asking, and very cognizant of the concern that people will have. We shouldn't automatically say, because clinicians collect all this information, we have to do this. I think just the fact that we've learned that we don't need to collect recognizable holistic pictures, is a huge difference. I don't need to know your name. I don't need to know anything about your data. I just need to know certain elements to be able to provide an answer to an issue. This is why we are here because we want to raise the appreciation of skin as really the barometer of your overall health and wellness and it should be utilized more extensively by Tech Developers, by Coders, by Innovative Thinkers in Silicon Valley. Think about what is accessible to you and use it, rather than having to figure how can they get inside to find something. It's right here.  Hey. Thanks everybody for joining us on this. This was a really great conversation. It's just amazing to me to see all of these different people, all over the world, in different communities coming together to make the world better for people. [MUSIC].  So let's have a look at the App. As you can see, simple app. First thing to do is take a selfie. It tracks your face, and then when it's right, that's it. So the image as it is there will be sent to our servers and analyzed. You can see there are six parameters that we measure, which we think are relevant to Acne. The top two there are two severity and x. One, is the model that we've created with Microsoft which is based on the dermatologist assessment. That's your little dermatologist in your pocket there. Then the other four that you see here at the bottom there are oiliness, redness, or hydration. So then, once you have your numbers, you can see day after day the pictures that you've been taking.  So this allows you, I think for the first time to actually see progress, how can you gamify your improvements?  That's the idea really. It's to be able to see the progress. Also, you can see here on these two streams, you can even focus like just the forehead maybe, that's where you add the lesions.  Yeah. It's kind of getting sensitive.  You can see that it's been getting better. So, yes. I'm on the right try.  I saw that you have a social media tab as well.  Yes, the idea is, you could be part of this community be able to share your experience about products or about just your acne in general, or ask questions. When you're an acne patients, sometime you might not want to show to, talk to the world about it. But you might want to talk to people that are in the same situation as you. You might say more to somebody that is similar to you than the doctor. So you might even say more, and we know that for acne, typically there's lots of psychology behind.  Right.  So it can help to talk with someone that went through the treatment, that went through acne.  Augmenting the doctors.  Now that's what we have to say it's augmented. The doctor or you can have a doctor that would be able to look at the data, to look at what the computer is proposing as a recommendation. Astray, if it works we've learned that this new analysis of the data makes sense in fact.  Is that what excites you as a data scientist?  Yeah. Of course. Because now Data Scientist, we can play a role. I mean, before we were in the back. Nobody sees us now. Now we can say, based on our data, we would recommend you to do this product or not. So it can be part of the bill the R&D that the development of products as well, maybe at some point. It was great to have you Grace and Gary at the table. I hope we can further discuss some of these techniques that you have heard about.  It's Open Source. Like you're Scientist can contribute back, your algorithms the things that help, and computer vision.  Thank you very much.  Let's keep talking.  Yes. Of course. [MUSIC]  This is really a place that where three different worlds meet. You have Tech start-ups, you have Big Pharma, and you have academic. You have university. They all cross-pollinate in this incredible campus, and really allows for the kinds of innovations that we were looking for. We want to tear down the barb wire of R&D and really open up to new ideas, and allow people to contribute to our companies. That's why, I think for me it's been an amazing adventure partnering with Microsoft on this because Microsoft and our company, we have the reputation of being behemoths. But in fact, in a space like this, you can't be closed. Otherwise, there's no point in being here.  Yeah. I love the fact that we're not in that old world where everything was a big complicated contract. It was more like a bunch of engineers and scientists got together and said, we should make this thing, and we started making it.  But I think there are many more projects we can do. As I mentioned earlier, there are so much untapped potential in Skin Health and in Skin Science. We've only begun to explore the role of digital. We're thinking about technologies, and ways to communicate, and ways to empower people. So the potential to take these technologies and adapt them to other skin conditions, or even other medical conditions. I mean, that would be the dream.  It's so clear in the conversations with everybody that Nestle really is looking for ways to make people's lives better. From my perspective, I couldn't be happier to do what we can to help and make that happen. So, I really want to thank you for having us over, showing us around, and getting the opportunity to see all this.  It's our pleasure. Really, I thank you for being here in our home. It's an exciting place to work. It's just it's really at the heart of the health and the technology fields here in New York.  Right. Hey, thanks.  It's a pleasure.  Thank you so much. [MUSIC].  I think we need to emphasize the real need for a widely adopted, open source frameworks, especially in vision, and then machine learning.  If I open my code and I open my data, you can go test it yourself. What that does is it makes us basically collaborators. Together, we are moving science forward. We are moving our scope of knowledge about the way things work forward. You can only do that if I am being fully transparent and so are all the other parties who are participating in this experiment.  I'm not afraid of AI taking over. We're nowhere near that. But I think the core techniques to be open and understood, just because it's so powerful for society. What we've done by putting these platforms together as Open Source is, we've allowed these very powerful components for you to put together like lego blocks.  Think about how many people you can reach around the world. How can we use fair visual data and help augment their lives, help them make better decisions? And how can we share those decisions and data across multiple people? Because if one person has that problem, likely many people do.  My worry for AI is that it doesn't happen fast enough because we have a lot of problems humanity has to solve, and we need to be able to scale.  It puts the responsibility on all of us to make better products that are for the good. [MUSIC] 