 Hey welcome back, TechLead here. Today we have a bit of technical topic about react native and I wanted to weigh in on why I think React Native is garbage basically. Or at least present a case against it. In the last week there was some pretty interesting news where Shopify announced they would be going all in on React Native. All of their future apps are going to be developed in this technology. So for those of you who don't know, React Native is a cross-platform mobile development framework that allows you to create apps for IOS and Android in one single language. And it promises a lot. And as a ex-Google ex-Facebook Techlead, not to mention, multi-millionaire. I wanted to give my thoughts on this decision and some of you may not know this, but in my last month or so at Facebook, I was actually on the Instagram IOS team and they have an interesting philosophy over there which is essentially to avoid as many frameworks as possible, they like to just use plain old vanilla IOS or Android and not over-engineer things, just keep things as simple and basic as possible, which is a pretty interesting idea isn't it? And I think that philosophy reflects in the polished and construction of their apps as well, like if you used Instagram, you'll notice that it's just a really well built app, everything is just nice and polished, fast. As was Youtube IOS which I worked on as well, that was also mostly vanilla code, not using a bunch of frameworks and abstractions. Quick pause, remember to check out my interview training program - techinterview.com. If you're looking to land a job at a top-teir tech company, then join me ex-Google ex-Facebook software engineer, where we will fast track your career, we do bi-weekly live Q&A's, we have a private Facebook group, professional community where we do resume reviews, answer questions, teach you all the ins and outs of the interview process, and you'll get access to over 80 whiteborading coding interview sessions, where we'll go over time space complexity, analysis, data structures and algorithms so check it out over at techinterviewpro.com 