 Okay so lets implement 30FPS object detection on a raspberry, wai….t whats going on here?! The documentation changed from the last time Nooooooooo. Ok, so I’m going to attempt to get the OAK kit working on the Raspberry which will allow me to do object detection using MobileNet SSD 30 FPS Now before we do, I have attempted this before and it almost worked flawlessly but now when I’m deciding to record the process for you guys the documentation change [Deep Sigh] Okay but the past is the past, lets see if we can tackle this installation process so that you guys can have a smooth process So to avoid you going through the same pain as I did, I will be documenting this process in slide in the link down below and I’ll also have the forked GitHub repo to ensure you get this working on your own Pi I’ve also spoken to Brandon, the CEO of Luxonis and he has ensured that this will be the last of big changes from the documentation And now a word from our sponsor Hello! Yes yes, this is the sponsor For those who are interested in the comprehensive OpenCV AI Kit course there will be a link for the course as well as for for buying the kits down below Below where, what is this…. [Just read the script] Okay okay… Also stay tune till the end to find out how you can win one of 10 free enrollments Why only one? [they only need one] Lastly Please hit the like.. Why all this violence? Why you wanna to hit people? [cencor] Please hit the like share and subscribe buttons and that bell icon to get notified. Thank you very much So to ensure that we are on the same level I have a freshly flashed Raspberry Pi with Raspbian installed Okay so first up go to docs.luxonis.com and have an empty folder ready for us Depending on the device you have you can click get started I have an OAK-1 which is the megaAI TINY BUT MIGHTY!!!! In the setup process go to step 2 and click see ‘our instructions’ Enabling the USB device Now they explain that because depth AI is a USB device you need to add the udev rules in order to make the device accessible So we will copy and paste these two commands into our terminal Lets just paste the first command And then the second one Install via Pypi Now there are a couple of methods of installing the depthAI API the one method is from PyPi using this command Python3 -m pip install depthai Press enter and it will install the necessary dependencies. Other Installation methods Otherwise you can try the alternative installation methods and build from source So for Debian based systems like Ubuntu as well as raspberry pi we can install cmake, the libusb packages and essentials using this command Sudo apt-get -y install cmake libusb version 1 dev and build-essential Press enter Now just wait for all the packages to get installed. We will retrieve the repository by cloning the depthAI GitHub Now to ensure that works for you. I have forked the library to my own repo Go to Code, and copy this link type in terminal git clone and paste the URL Now you will want to clone it that empty folder that you have created in the start of the lecture Now once this is done. You should see the files here. We can change directory into depthAI and we should be almost done. Just type in python3 test.py and we should see an image! Sh** Okay seems like we need to install opencv. So, after doing some digging through the documentation you will require some other dependencies from the requirements.txt file So type in or copy - python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt and.. Whaaaaaat....!!!! Stay calm stay calm, I’ve seen this error before In my interactions with the Luxonis team via slack The mentioned that you need to upgrade pip. Using python3 -m pip install -U pip. And then again once this is done, the requirements.txt process should work. Okay so I tried python3 test.py and guess what it still does not work. But don’t worry we are almost there and I think I know how to solve these issues So it is missing a couple of imports which I found on the raspberry Pi forums for which the problem seems to be for installing opencv in python3 You will need to all of these commands one by one to get the necessary dependencies for the running the application for the OAK devices. Lets do that right now [detective conan music] Okay here we go, here we go! The Moment of truth. Lets hope it works, need to cross my fingers. Python3 test.py Ok, something is happening I think it’s working Yes it is initializing Whaaaaat!! Yes its working!!!! OMG This is insane Object detection on a raspberry at 30 FPS! Incredible. You can see that we are able to detect various objects On this device you can see we are able to detect a person, a Monitor, even my dog Barfi Say Hi! Awesome so if followed my swift instructions you should also be able to get a MobileNet SSD working on your raspberry Pi. We’ll delve into some practical applications in the upcoming lectures which is really exciting. So stay tuned. For those who are interested in the comprehensive OpenCV AI Kit course there will be a link down below.. To stand a chance to win one of 10 enrollments please share this video on social media with the #augmentedstartups and sign up at the link below Winners announced every 3 months! Also Please hit the like, share and subscribe buttons Because it will really help me out Thank you for watching and see you in the next video 