 [ Music ] You're in the middle of a revolution. An AI revolution that already shows the signs of radical changes in how machines are used by businesses. I could cite countless flashy statistics, but I don't think that's necessary. You're probably already aware of many changes that recent groundbreaking developments in AI technology can bring to our every day lives. And that means a lot of changes for how we do business. With this program, our goal is to get you up to speed on what is happening in this space and give you the skills to navigate in this new and changing environment. We'll place emphasis on what non-technical managers should know to be able to successfully lead teams that implement AI transformation. We'll address questions that relate to elements which are crucial to the success of such transformations. How does new technology like AI create value for businesses? What are the most important steps required when implementing AI driven projects? How to drive organizational change to enable the transformation? And finally, how do you manage the relationship between machines and humans? Be it your employees or your customers? My name is Zsolt Katona and I am the faculty director for this course. I am thrilled to say that we have a fantastic interdisciplinary team with a wide variety of experiences. I'm a professor at the Haas School of Business but I have a dual background in marketing and computer science. Among the 5 instructors teaching this program, two others, Professor Thomas Lee and Professor Sameer Srivastava are from the business school covering operations research and organizational studies. Then we have a world renowned AI expert from the engineering department, Professor Pieter Abbeel, and last but not least, Matthew Stepka, the former Google executive who's now an investor focusing on AI startups. This team embodies the perfect unique combination of perspectives covering all the important areas relevant to the business applications of AI. The course is designed so that the recorded modules will alternate with live sessions where instructors are able to answer questions and discuss the latest updates. An important part of the course is the capstone project in which students will develop their own plan for an AI based project step-by-step as they progress through the course modules. We strive to equip students with the knowledge to build the bridge between the engineering and business sides of the organization so that they can successfully lead teams tasked with the AI transformation. The course covers examples from a number of different industries: agriculture, healthcare, finance, marketing, manufacturing, and a number of others. We examine large well-established enterprises as well as startups but regardless of the industry or size of the company, our framework will allow students to plan and manage a successful AI driven transformation in a wide variety of settings. [ Music ] 