 [MUSIC]  Our cultural heritage as individuals, communities, and countries provides a link to where we came from and informs us about where we want to go.  It's embodied in the people we know, the languages we speak, the places we visit, and the historical artifacts that we hold dear.  But as new technology propels us into the future, how do we honor our past? How can we use today's digital tools to preserve and celebrate what makes us who we are and helps us understand our place in the world? [MUSIC]  Longquan Monastery is a steward of a massive collection of ancient Buddhist literature.  The monastery's tech savvy monks and volunteers are what makes this temple so unique. Many have computer science degrees in backgrounds in the IT industry. They're bridging past and present while embracing new technology.  Xian'er, move forward. People must look forward for China to have a future full of hope.  For centuries, scholars have pored over these texts and built upon one another's work, seeking new understandings and insights. But editing and translating millions of characters and ensuring that that data lives on is a perennial challenge.  Now that we have the AI technology, we can use the AI to do the automated searching and comparing with the original texts. This work is very urgent. Because if we don't collect and seek out the ancient literature, it will eventually become lost. And today we feel like we have the responsibility to dig out the essence of the traditional culture to benefit people in the modern society. It can also help us face the future in a better way. [MUSIC]  One place where culture is on grand display is in Normandy, France, where Mont Saint-Michel soars above the coastline.  Designated as a UNESCO World Heritage site, Mont Saint-Michel has withstood centuries of change and conflict. [MUSIC]  A detailed relief map of this architectural marvel was painstakingly built by hand in the 17th century as a military tool for King Louis XIV.  Oh my goodness the cathedral.  Look at that. Look inside.  It's a magical place for France and for the whole world too.  In 2018, Microsoft set out with partners across France to help bring this treasure to life. By creating an immersive experience exploring the centuries old landmark.  Using Azure, French startup Iconem, captured and analyze tens of thousands of photos of the 17th century model to build a digital replica.  What will your model enabled people to do?  They will effectively be able to walk through environments that no longer exist. Our goal is to save the memory of the endangered sites and architectures around the world.  For us, the point of digital technology and HoloLens is to tell the story of the model as well as the history of the site depicted. During the experience there's a magic moment when one observes the visitors, they change their perspective and at that moment one sees them exclaim, "wow." We often talk about experiencing something, and I just had a real experience, at once virtual, digital, but at the same time, I would say, aesthetic and historical because a dialogue starts almost immediately between the model as we see it today in this Musée des Plans-Reliefs but also, the universe it is linked to, that is to say, Mont Saint-Michel. [MUSIC] 