 Hey guys and welcome back, so in the last lecture we created a social distancing app which is relatively complex. Today we we’ll develop a simple car counting app, that will take in a bunch of images and output the number of cars present within the image. Why is this app is important? well because when creating applications, we would like at some point to analyze and quantify objects in the image so that we can utilize this information to make important decisions. So this app is useful not only counting cars, but counting just about anything. Say if you have a drone and you need to count the number of crops in a field, or people in an area for security applications or even counting cars for traffic quantification. The possibilities are endless. So in this app, we are using images instead of video in this lecture as the application does not have to be real time and for demonstration purposes but the code can easily be used for videos like how we did in the social distancing app. And, if you like this video, please give it a thumbs up, comment down below if you have any questions or any suggestions for future videos. Subscribe so you get notified when the next AI/AR tutorial is out. And feel free to share this video with any of your friends if think it will be helpful. Okay, so earlier I mentioned that if you are interested in winning one of 20 free enrolments to any of the augmented Startups courses, then all you have to do is like and comment on this video and sign up at the link below. Winners will be announced every 3 months. You can comment on anything or provide suggests for upcoming video and ideas as I’ve mentioned earlier. So the full Yolov4 course will be available as a comprehensive course on Augmentedstartups.com. Im pretty excited for it because we are going to be covering a lot, from execution of a pretrained model on images, videos and webcam Labelling a new dataset in YoloV4 format Creating a custom dataset from other datasets but in YOLOv4 formation and then we then train our own custom detector natively on your PC, We also Implement on a MultiGPU And develop some real world application We also going to how you create a nice PyQT user interface for object detection using YOLOv4. I really hope that you are excited by this course as I am, because if you are then you can enroll down below. Remember that I 'll not be publishing this course anywhere else and will be exclusive to AugmentedStartups.com Also check out GeekyBeeAI who are expert developers in AI, computer vision and deep learning. Thank you for watching and see you in the next video. 