 The Catalyst Case for the Apple watch is designed to be the perfect minimal yet, rugged complement to your 42 millimeter Apple watch. The case is engineered to be waterproof and shockproof so you can take your Apple watch with you everywhere. Note that before you use your Catalyst Case for the first time, you must water test it to both ensure it's in good working condition and to give you the confidence in how your case works.  For detailed instructions on how to waterproof test your case, please see the video link below. This video is to cover the basics on how to open your Catalyst Case and how to install your Apple watch To open your Apple watch case, first using the mini screwdriver included in your packaging. Turn your case over and unscrew the single screw completely on the back of the case. Remove the case by pushing on the case back in the area it is covered by silicon, you can use the band's as leverage. Be careful not to puncture the silicon with your fingernails or any other sharp object. Remove the case front and gently unwrap the silicon seal. Be careful not to loose the side button. Spare parts can be found inside your Apple watch dummy. Inside you'll find two spare screws and 1 spare button. Installing your Catalyst Case onto your Apple watch is just as easy as removing the case. First, remove the bands attached to your Apple watch by sliding them out to the side like this. Make sure all of your Catalyst Case parts are clean and free of dust and dirt. If the parts are dirty, you must clean them for installation. A damp lint-free cloth is all that's really needed to wipe down the parts. It's really important that you get your silicon part clean. Next, insert your Apple watch into the silicone sealed button side first. Gently pull the silicone to wrap around the back of the device. Be careful not to puncture the silicone with any sharp objects or your fingernails. Then, press out any trapped air between the silicone seal and the Apple watch. The silicone seal has a raised lip around the touch screen, this lip must fit evenly inside the rim of the case front. Press the case front onto the silicone seal starting on the opposite side of the buttons. It is critical for the case front and a silicon seal to be properly aligned for the case to be waterproof. This is what the case front and silicon seal should look like when they're properly aligned. Be careful not to miss align the Rays lift so that's trapped under the rim of the case, this is what you don't want to see after you put your case front on. If it looks like this, please take the case front off and reassemble. Next, snap the case back onto the case front like this, do a final check to make sure the rim of the silicon seal is aligned with the rim of the plastic case front. If the rim of the seal is not perfectly aligned, take it apart and repeat the process Lastly, screw the parts back together being careful not to over tighten the screw. It's that easy, now your Catalyst Case and Apple watch are ready to go with you everywhere 