 It's easy to clean inside your oven door by following these steps. First, place a towel on either the floor or a large work surface in your kitchen to protect the oven door when you remove it. Next, remove the door after consulting your Use and Care manual for complete door removal instructions. Wearing a pair of sturdy work gloves will protect your hands during this step. Start by opening the door fully. Pulling the hinge locks, located in the lower corners, down toward the door frame until they are in the unlocked position. Since hinge designs may vary among models, be sure to consult your model's Use and Care manual. Firmly grasp both sides of the door at the top and close the door until it reaches the removal position. The door will be open about 3 inches, making an approximately 75 degree angle. Make sure there is nothing obstructing the door. Lift the door up and out until both hinge arms are clear of the slots. Be careful as you lift the door as it may be heavy. Now, lay the door down - handle side down - on the towel. In a medium sized container, mix up a mild dish soap and warm water solution. Wrap a wash or dishcloth around the end of a yardstick, securing the cloth with tape or a rubber band and soak the cloth in the soapy solution. Insert the yardstick, cloth-covered end first, into the opening at the bottom of the door. Do not force the yardstick in between the glass be sure to allow room for movement careful not to bend or break the glass. Be sure to thoroughly wet any stains and let the solution soak in for about two to three minutes. Scrub the stains with the cloth covered yardstick until they're gone. Re-wetting the cloth as necessary. Rinse the cloth. Reattach it to the yard stick with the tape or rubber band and use the wet cloth to rinse the scrubbed areas. Be sure that you remove all soap residue. Replace the wet cloth on the yard stick with a dry lint-free cloth or paper towel and insert it into the door opening to dry the inside of the door Once the inside is dry, reattach the door by grasping it on each side of the top. Start on the left side and hold the door at the same 75 degree angle at which it was removed. Insert the hinge arm into the hinge slot making sure it is fully seated then repeat this process on the right side of the door. Firmly push the hinge locks against the front frame of the oven cavity into the locked position. Close the oven door. Now step back and admire your sparkling clean oven door. Subscribe to our YouTube channel for the latest video updates. For other care tips and videos, visit GEappliances.com 