 RATNAM: You're now the chairman of this new subcommittee of the House Intelligence that's overseeing strategic technologies and advanced research I want to see if you can frame the challenge that you face HIMES: One is, are we adapting and adopting technology within the intelligence community as rapidly as we need to? The other challenge of course is doing the longer-term thinking around threats that we may not see yet. The adoption of machine learning for data processing we're in a world right now, and after 5G networks are fully rolled out, we are in a world where we will be dealing with orders of magnitude more data than we have today. And that's a huge challenge to the intelligence community, if they don't, if they're not at the forefront of machine learning and artificial intelligence they will be swimming in an ocean of data that they can't begin to parse RATNAM: One of the other technologies that chairman Schiff, Adam Schiff the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, has been raising the alarm about is deepfake. How big of a challenge do you think that that is? HIMES: I think the challenge is a transitional challenge and it's not one that is new to us I mean when photographic technology came out a hundred years ago it was pretty soon thereafter you could fake a photograph and so we all grew up knowing that you could fake a photograph. Citizens and people need to adapt to this so, and I think this is happening, people need to understand that everything they see on Facebook and Twitter is not necessarily God's own truth. RATNAM: One last question here. In terms of coming back to the main point of our discussion which is the technology advanced technology for intelligence purposes, are we investing enough and is there a benchmark that you're aiming for in terms of what would be a sufficient investment? HIMES: It's a question you should ask me when the committee's work is underway and again I don't want to sort of jump to conclusions. So, so let me answer that question this way the community gets a lot of money. We spend more money on our intelligence community than most nations spend on their national security. What I worry more about are sort of more traditional bureaucratic impediments. It's hard for a bureaucracy to change and it's really hard for a bureaucracy to change technologically. I don't want to overstate this these are superbly innovative and thoughtful people but people are people they get used to ways of doing things and we need to make sure that change is the rule rather than the exception in the intelligence community. 