 Hello! Today I'd like to give you a little  bit of an introduction to quantum hardware. Computers come in many forms. There are familiar ones, like computers, laptops, tablets, and even your smartphone.  There are less obvious computers, like those that control robotic arms or your microwave, the hundreds in your car, satellites, even smart refrigerators and thermostats. Computers are all around us and they come in many forms.  Yet, there are now quantum computers. Why is it that all of these myriad devices are actually quite similar when quantum computers are so different? The classical devices are all different variations of the same technology with very similar ways of programming them. They are merely different trade-offs. A satellite needs reliability because you can't repair it easily and the rays from the Sun are very damaging without Earth's atmosphere to protect it.   Microwaves need very little storage or speed, so they are optimized for low cost.  Laptops and desktops provide large storage and fast computation, but supercomputers supercharge those two aspects. Phones, tablets, and watches depend heavily on communication with much less storage. There are currently many competing technologies for implementing quantum computers.  There are currently many competing technologies for implementing quantum operations.  Why? Because it is very difficult to sustain quantum operations accurately for any length of time. These different technologies trade off speed, reliability, and scalability. Ion track machines have taken an early lead because they depend on very mature laser technology, allowing them to leverage decades of development in that area. For small systems, they have fast communication between qubits and the manufacturing is more consistent. However, it is hard to build a large machine and they are slow - a thousand times slower than other technologies. Superconducting technologies leverage the decades of development in silicon used for classical computers. However, they are much larger than ion trap machines.  These just show a few of the examples of technologies being used to implement quantum technologies. Thank you. 