 This video is about how and why quantum computers  are fake. This might sound like a conspiracy   theory to you, but I am going to show where I got  my information, so you can evaluate it and come to   your own conclusion. Here are a couple of concepts  that you need to know, so that you can understand   what quantum computers are supposed to be. So,  this is how quantum computers and normal computers   are the same. Quantum computers still use the  same concept of zeros and ones, or on and off,   and these are known as bits. Now, the big  difference for a quantum computer is something   called quantum state superposition. Now, this is  where the concept of a quantum computer starts,   and ironically, it is where the quantum computer  ends. This is because quantum state superposition   is not real. This does not exist. So now  we have a quantum bit that can be a one   or a zero, just like a classical bit, or it  can be in this quantum state superposition.   So what does that mean? On one side of the  spectrum, you might get an answer that sounds like   "it's all possibilities between 0 and 1 at the  same time", or another illogical answer would be   "it's 0 and 1 at the same time". In other words,  how can something be on and off at the same exact   time? And on the other end of the spectrum, you  have explanations such as, "it's like a coin flip"   or "it's a point on a sphere or a circle". Now,  these last two analogies make more sense to us,   because they're just describing analog processes,  or classical physics and not quantum physics.   So how do we know if quantum state superposition  is real or not? And that is a big problem! By   definition, you can never observe this state of  magical on and off at the same time, so you have   to believe it's real. A very famous example  of this problem is called Schrodinger's Cat.   Now realize that Erwin Schrodinger himself  wrote about the cat being dead and alive at   the same time to show the silliness of quantum  mechanics. In mainstream science, it seems like   they've taken his idea, turned it around, and  use it as a teaching tool for quantum mechanics.   So why would so many smart people believe in  something that seems so silly? I'm not sure I   can answer that, but I think it has to do with the  belief that quantum mechanics has been proven time   and time again to work. Now, my statement is that  this is the first device we've ever tried to build   based on the principles of quantum mechanics.  Now, I realize that almost everyone's going   to disagree with that, and I don't blame  them, because it takes more knowledge of   what is wrong with quantum mechanics, in order to  better understand my statement. For now, think of   a device that has ever tried to implement quantum  state superposition before... So, at this point,   everything I've said can be verified by watching  popular quantum computer videos on YouTube.   Just realize that they believe that quantum  state superposition exists. Those videos will   also help explain why we're even trying to  build quantum computers in the first place.   One thing you'll hear about that is related to  quantum computing is quantum entanglement. Now,   in this video, I'm not going to go into detail  what quantum entanglement is, because it requires   quantum state superposition to be real. If  quantum state superposition is not real,   then neither is quantum entanglement. And finally,  you might hear that we've already achieved quantum   state superposition and quantum entanglement  using photon particles. The big problem with   photon particles is that there is no definition  that exists for a single photon particle. So,   if this sentence right here doesn't make any sense  to you, then what I can do is refer you to another   video I did that will go into more detail and  explain what is wrong with the photon particle.   This is the video that is on my channel that goes  into more detail about why the photon particle   is incorrect, but this is not a prerequisite for  understanding the rest of this video. Okay, so now   I will demonstrate how a classical computer works  and how a quantum computer is supposed to work.   Here we have a basic diagram of how your  computer performs logic. We have two bits of   information that you can think of as being  stored in the computer memory or RAM. These   are connected by wires that go to a logic gate.  You can think of this gate as being a processor   or CPU. This is the output wire from the processor  that, in this example, is just connected to an led   light. This computer has four possible states that  this processor can take as inputs. The logic is   based on this wire being turned on and this wire  being turned on at the same time. When this occurs   it will turn on the output wire that lights  up the LED. So, your computer has to send in   each one of these states one at a time. So, let's  try this out first. We have the zero-zero state,   and then we're going to have the zero-one state.  And you can see that this wire became electrified.   Now let's have the one- zero state. And then,  let's send in the last state, or the fourth state,   one-one. Both wires are electrified. The  processor took this input and then turned   on the output to make the LED light up. That's  how a normal classical computer works and anybody   can understand that. This is called digital  logic. So now let me try to describe what I call   quantum illogic. Instead of using four separate  steps to input these states into the logic gate,   a quantum computer will set these bits in a  quantum state superposition. Now, what that means   is they can be 0 and 1 at the same time,  and if they are 0 and 1 at the same time,   then you can send that quantum state  superposition into the input of a quantum gate.   This allows you to skip the four separate  steps and just do it all at once.   This is referred to as quantum parallelism or the  parallel processing advantage that you get over   classical computing. So, the first problem with  this is how would you ever know that these are   actually in a quantum state superposition, where  they're both zero and one at the same time?   Because by definition, if you look at these  bits or observe them or interact with them,   what happens is that superposition collapses  down to a classical bit state. In other words,   you'll always see a zero or a one. You'll never  see zero and one at the same time, by definition.   Again, the quantum computer has the advantage  of sending all four states in a single step,   instead of sending each state one at a time. This  is where quantum computing breaks down, because   quantum state superpositions do not exist. But,  let's keep following along. So you can apply   quantum logic gates to this superposition of  states, and somehow it doesn't disturb or observe   the system. And then, when you decide to take  a measurement, the output of the gate is just   one of the possible states. You don't  ever have access to this superposition   of all states. Now, if that's confusing to you,  don't worry because quantum computing is illogical   and wrong. So then, what are these quantum  computers that are available for people to use?   There's a simple answer to this. They are  analog, random number generators. So this   is the article that was written up by Google, when  they claimed their quantum computer was supreme to   any classical computer. But, what did it do? What  Google did to demonstrate quantum supremacy was   take a large sampling of random numbers from  their quantum qubit circuits, and that's it. So where is the quantum computer speed up over  classical computers coming from? I talked a little   bit about parallelism, but that message seems to  be going away, since it's obviously not working.   So, it seems as if the parallelism is now  changed to "quantum speedups come from   interference." So for a beginner overview video,  I can't really get into what this actually means,   but realize that it still requires quantum  state superposition to be a real thing.   Okay, so let's move on to more about WHY  quantum state superposition is not real.   Where did this idea of a quantum state even come  from? We have to go back to old quantum theory   where Niels Bohr was describing how an atom works.  So this is the model of an atom that I think   most people are familiar with. This refers to  an electron orbiting a nucleus, but somehow not   radiating light continuously and falling into  the nucleus of the atom itself. This next one,   I think, is more familiar to everyone. It's  the idea that an electron makes a quantum leap,   or this mysterious jump between orbits, and  it jumps instantly through time and space.   Niels Bohr justified these ideas, basically just  by saying, since stable atoms exist and we can't   explain this using classical physics, well then  quantum weirdness must exist! And then he spent   the next decade or so trying to figure out how to  bridge that gap between the quantum weirdness, and   everyday life classical physics. In 1925, Erwin  Schrodinger created his famous wave equation that   began to explain all of this quantum weirdness  just by using classical physics equations.   So his equation was making the right predictions  for the atom, and again, it was doing this without   bringing in any of the quantum ideas or  probabilities. You have to realize that   Schrodinger's equation is WAVE MECHANICS and not  quantum mechanics. Wave mechanics is the opposite   of quantum mechanics, because this is dealing  with WAVES and quantum is dealing with PARTICLES.   This is Schrodinger's 1926 paper where his wave  equation comes from. He says, that the point of   view taken here is rather that material points  consist of or are nothing but wave systems.   Right here, he's talking about how this new  theory can explain the electron quantum leaps,   which up to date have been wholly mysterious.  You can see that he's not using the idea of an   electron as a concentrated point, but rather it's  spread out through the whole space of the atom.   So the Schrodinger equation is like the holy  grail of quantum mechanics, but the solutions   to the Schrodinger equation are not quantum!  They are wave mechanics. They are solutions that   are based on classical physics math. So then,  where does quantum mechanics enter the picture?   Right here, Max Born hijacked Schrodinger's  equation and gave it his own meaning. In this   paper, Max Born uses the Schrodinger form  of quantum mechanics, whatever that is,   and attempts to apply his own interpretation,  based on an idea that he got from Einstein,   that determines the probability of a photon.  So, remember the quantum weirdness of stationary   states and of the electron quantum leap? Max  Born admits here that the Schrodinger equation   does justice to these problems in the simplest  way, again, in a classical physics manner.   So what does Schrodinger think about  Max Born's idea of probabilities applied   to Schrodinger's own equation? In this paper  written by Schrodinger, he talks about Max Born's   idea of probability and probability amplitudes,  and then he gives his own comment, right here,   saying "I am averse to this conception." Averse  meaning having a strong dislike or opposition to,   and instead of a translation to English, we have  the original German phrase right here. And so,   what does all of this mean? We have one man's  opinion on how he can force the idea of quantum   particles into a classical wave equation.  He does this by ignoring the answers that   Schrodinger's wave equation gives, and tries to  convince us to focus on one answer that tells us   the probability of finding a particle. Now,  I'm going to do a visual demo to show you   how this idea creates quantum state superposition.  But right now, I want to show you another Max Born   paper. It's just the preliminary version  of the one I just showed you. I'm trying   to point out how quantum computers and quantum  mechanics both depend on this man's opinion.   So after solving the collision problem with the  Schrodinger equation, Max Born states right here,   "if one translates this result into terms of  particles, only one interpretation is possible,   (This is the wave function) gives the  probability for the electron. And this   is where quantum mechanics begins! ...the  opinion that Schrodinger's wave function   gives the probability of the location for a  quantum particle. This is called the Born Rule,   and there's no scientific proof that it's true.  And just a side note, you see this asterisk.   He had to correct himself and say  it's the square of the wave function   that provides the probability. And one last  note Max Born wants to give another opinion,   and let you know that he himself "is inclined  to give up determinism in the world of atoms."   And what he's saying here is that when you  choose to use probability and statistical math,   that you will not be able to figure out  exact locations for things in the world   of atoms. Okay, so let's do a visual  demonstration of quantum state superposition   and tie together all of this talking. So  here we have a PHET simulation of waves.   Schrodinger's equation describes wave systems. So  I'm going to send a single pulse down the line,   and then a second one. I'm going to pause it right  here, and explain. I have a reference line set up   here, so you can see the height or the amplitude  of these waves. And then I can step them together,   and show you the constructive interference that  occurs when two waves hit each other. At this   point in time, we have a superposition of waves,  and you can just think of this as waves of water.   As we keep moving forward in time, the waves will  go through each other and go back to their normal   amplitude or normal height. Since Schrodinger's  equation is designed to describe wave systems, you   can see how naturally wave superposition is built  right into this equation. Now let's unnaturally   force the idea of an electron particle into  this equation. Now let's make this an electron   and this an electron, and you can think of it as  billiard balls. Let's step them closer together,   and at this point, how are you going to  describe these objects coming together as one?   This is where you have to get creative and make  something up like quantum state superposition.   How can these billiard balls or electrons occupy  the same space and time, pass through each other,   and keep moving? And here's the answer. If you're  going to translate that in terms of particles,   it's obvious there's one interpretation possible,  and that is the probability for the location   of the electron. So hopefully, you  can see that the Born Rule of forcing   particles into a wave equation IS what creates  the idea of quantum state superposition. In other   words, a particle can be two different things,  at the same exact space and time, and the Qubit   of the quantum computer is based on this belief!  Okay, that is it and thanks for listening... 