 Welcome back crypto enthusiasts to the official Quantum Resistant Ledger channel, your video portal into post-quantum digital asset security! This video is going to be for both our Discord community and it's also a bit of a hat-tip to the Ethereum community. Today we're going to introduce you to a project called enQlave which will show you how to secure your Ether against a quantum computer attack. So! The Ethereum 2.0 fork! Lots of improvements... looks really exciting honestly. You have sharding coming up, zero knowledge proofs. You're improving blockchain efficiency and lowering transaction fees with these technologies. Guys, it's really exciting personally. I think those are some of the biggest hindrances to blockchain right now affecting its adoption and it's ability to scale. I also think those things are going to help off quite a bit. I'm very excited to see progress in this area. Proof of stake, Ethereum is going there, so are we. It just feels like innovation and passion run deep in a Ethereum and quite honestly we here at qrl know how that feels and like that. Transparency. Trust. Immutability Pseudonymity. Security. All of these things are core tenants of blockchain. And in the spirit of these values, I think it also comes a freedom of choice. That's why today I'm going to let you know when it comes to your Ether, you are soon going to have another option and that option is to make it quantum secure or not. But why quantum? If you haven't seen them, take a look at some of our previous videos where we go a little bit into this topic. Quantum computers are quite cool. And I mean they're quite literally. Fact #1. In 2016 the NIST or National Institute of Standards and Technology for the United States initiated a process to solicit, evaluate, and standardize one or more quantum resistant public key cryptographic algorithms. This program is essentially the the NIST calling upon academics, the public, or anyone with knowledge and experience to write and propose new asymmetric ( public/private) key algorithms to be used in the post quantum era. There were over 60 submissions, of which twelve were broken or significantly attacked, and five withdrawals from the competition just from round one. As of June 2020, two quantum secure OTS protocols are in draft recommended state. One of which is XMSS, the underlying protocol used by the the QRL. Fact #2. Quantum computers are here now . D-wave has been manufacturing quantum computers since... I think 1999. IBM recently released the IBM Q system one last year. Fact #3. In 2019, Google announced something called Quantum Supremacy. So, the definition of quantum supremacy is "the construction of a device that can solve a problem or perform a function that would be unfeasible for any classical computer." The definition by itself is pretty broad, but in Google's case they claimed to have performed a function in 200 seconds that, based on their calculations, would take a modern supercomputer 10,000 years to complete. So I think that those three points are good takeaways and it appears the quantum resistance is not on the Ethereum 2.0 roadmap, so this is where I think the QRL team can help a little with the project. EnQlave is an Ethereum smart contract that creates a quantum-secure safe to store your Ethereum cryptocurrency. If you're not sure what that means, it simply means that using your browser you can access your Ethereum and transfer funds into a quantum secure safe, all while staying on the Ethereum blockchain. It's kind of cool, but as with all things, there is a bit of a cost. Every time you invoke a smart contract, in this case moving your funds in or out of your Enclave wallet, you incur a gas charge from the Ethereum network. The gas charge is a price that's indirectly set by miners who are processing transactions on the Ethereum network it acts as an incentive for them to process your transaction. So due to gas costs, enQlave works best as a long-term post quantum secure storage solution. It's not something you would want to move your funds in and out every day. As of June 2020, enQlave is currently running on an internal test network as the code is audited so I'm really looking forward to being able to share some sneak peek content in the near future. Some more information about that is coming out soon. That's it... Feel free to join our Discord community for more information and thank you for watching! 