 Hello Tech lovers, bored with the slowness and weakness of classic computers:) Today we will examine quantum computers, which are brand new and equally powerful and interesting computers. First of all, what are these quantum computers and what are they for? Quantum computers are computers that use theoretical computing systems that allow direct use of quantum-mechanical phenomena such as trapping and entanglement to manipulate data. Also, quantum computers are machines that use the properties of quantum physics to store data and make calculations. This can be extremely advantageous for certain tasks where they can outperform even our best supercomputers. So what are the properties that make quantum computers so superior? Of course, how operating systems work in the first place. Conventional computers including smartphones and laptops encode information as binary "bits" that can be 0's or 1's.  In a quantum computer, the basic memory unit is a quantum bit or qubit.  Qubits are made using physical systems such as the spin of an electron or the orientation of a photon.  These systems can be in many different arrangements at the same time, a property known as quantum superposition.  Qubits can also be inextricably linked using a phenomenon called quantum entanglement.  The result is that a set of qubits can represent different things at the same time.  For example, eight bits are sufficient for a conventional computer to represent any number between 0 and 255.  But eight qubits are enough for a quantum computer to represent every number between 0 and 255 at the same time.  A few hundred entangled qubits would be enough to represent more numbers than atoms in the universe.  This is where quantum computers gain an advantage over classical computers.  Where there are many possible combinations, quantum computers can evaluate them simultaneously. However,  there may be many situations where classical computers will still perform better than quantum computers. So the computers of the future may be a combination of these two types. But despite all the developments we have mentioned Quantum computers still very sensitive for now: heat, electromagnetic fields, and collisions with air molecules can cause a qubit to lose its quantum properties. This process, known as a quantum mismatch, causes the system to collapse and happens faster when more particles are included. However, we are among those who think that science will solve these one day and quantum computers will take their place in our lives. And if this happens one day, imagine what humanity could do. Computers that are many times more powerful than ours. Isn't it perfect? So what do you think, please specify in the comments :) 