 Quantum computing has been called the space race of the 21st century. It's impact is so profound and it's realization so challenging that only a large collaboration of the best researchers in the world can hope to achieve this goal. Now, thanks to the next-generation technologies fund from the Department of Defence, a consortium of three Australian institutions: Griffith University, UNSW Sydney and University of Technology Sydney, in partnership with seven leading American universities and research labs, has set out to develop an unprecedented capability, a noise-canceling system for quantum computers. The information process by a quantum computer is extremely fragile. Protecting it from the noise in the environment is absolutely essential for the quantum computer to work. Imagine you are in a noisy environment, like the back of this quantum engineering laboratory and you want to take a phone call or listen to music you're gonna need some noise cancelling headphones. Now, we want to do the same thing but instead of protecting our ears we want to protect the quantum bits inside the quantum computer chip. To build a noise cancelling system you need three things: a microphone to measure the noise, a speaker to cancel it and a cloud computer program that actually tells a speaker what to do. What makes this problem complicated for us is that a quantum system is very sensitive to all sorts of noise, not just vibrations, so for example, electromagnetic fields or even the presence of other quantum systems. Here at Griffith we developed a protocol allowing us to characterize all the noises that affect a quantum system. At UTS, we use state of the art machinery and artificial intelligence to define in real time what signals to apply to cancel this noise. The physical hardware we will use is made of two different atoms implanted side-by-side inside a silicon quantum computer chip. The bigger atom is more sensitive to the noise and acts as the microphone. We analyze the noise it picks up and then with our quantum machine learning algorithms we adapt the electromagnetic fields applied to the smaller atom that carries the quantum information. The result is that the data qubit receives only the desired signals that are used to encode the quantum information while the noise is canceled out. This project will develop a crucial capability for making quantum computers work reliably. It will also help us create some of the most advanced machine learning and artificial intelligence protocols. This major breakthrough for quantum computing will have applications in many other fields of technology development, defence and data analytics. 