 Making quantum computers suitable for everyday  use is the goal of many research groups worldwide. This also includes the miniaturisation of individual components. The experimental physicist Silke Auchter  is working at the University of Innsbruck to optimise the heart of the quantum computer, the ion trap, for industrial production. Quantum computers work with qubits. These qubits are provided by the ion traps. In a quantum computer you need a basis like the classical bit in a classical computer and this is the quantum bit, the qubit. And this qubit can be formed by an ion. And in our ion traps we trap these ions. We try to confine these ions in the traps so that we can use them as a qubit. And this can be done through their electronic states, their energy states, and in this states we can encode the qubit information or do the operations. To operate an ion trap you of course need electronics for your  static and your radio frequency voltages and you also need optics. So you need lasers to cool your  ion down to the ground state and you need lasers to do the readout, to see in which state you are,  in which electronic state you are with your ion and you also need lasers for the manipulation for  doing the quantum operations. Currently the lab is quite huge and we need a lot of equipment. So this  is also one goal to reduce this whole lab and make  it smaller. At the university, the scientists are  working on a new generation of semiconductor-based ion traps in the size of microchips. They will  replace the much larger ion traps used previously. Previous ion traps are microscopic traps. So  most of university groups are working with microscopic traps. But we want to scale our ion  traps, so we want to make our ion traps smaller and this is why we do the microfabrication at  Infineon. So our ion traps are just like on a very tiny microchip and we can trap several  ions on one of these tiny chips. The goal of our project is to build a scalable ion trap. This  means we want to trap a lot of ions and we do this by building an ion trap where we have individual  trapping sites. Every ion is trapped on a single trapping site and therefore we can couple ions not  only in one direction but also in two directions. And so we could end up with a huge array of  ions that could be used for quantum operations. The focus is on the internal structure of  the ion traps, i.e. their architecture. The way the electrodes are arranged determines  how well and under which conditions the ions can be kept in their places. Silke Auchter is trying  to put the academic ideas and requirements into a form that can be manufactured in industrial  facilities. The project partner Infineon Technologies, which produces the ion traps in  Villach, is helping to implement the project. The microfabrication of such ion traps is not  easy, especially not in a university clean room. There you're very limited in different fabrication  processes you can take and also in the precision. We use therefore the fabrication at Infineon  because they can guarantee a high precision and also a high reproducibility, so that in  the end every of our ion traps is completely the same. And we end up with having a lot  of completely identical ion trap chips that can be operated therefore much easier. Individual ion trap chips are separated from the wafer plate and further processed under clean room conditions. At this time, the wire bonding has to be done by hand in the scientific laboratory,  but will be fully automated in the near future. Each electronic contact of the ion trap has to be bonded to the carrier board with wire as thin as a hair. The next steps are of course to trap even more ions,  because in the end you would need hundreds or thousands of ions to build  like a general fully functioning quantum computer. We are working iteratively, so we're trying to  improve our traps as soon as we have feedback from the trap characterization in the lab. Hopefully in a few years we are closer to a fully functional quantum computer. In my PhD project i'm also looking into different architectures one could use for building an  ion trap. There you can use a two-dimensional structure like we have right now, where you  have single trapping sites and two arrays and the second project is to build a  three-dimensional ion trap, so to have a 3D architecture. There you have not only one  layer where the electrodes sit but multiple layers with electrodes. This means that the ion  can be confined even stronger in the ion trap. This is very important if you want to go to  a room temperature operation. This means that you could operate your ion trap at room temperature  and you do not have to cool it down to cryogenic temperatures around 10 kelvin. Cooling to temperatures below minus 260 degrees Celsius would then be obsolete, a further step towards  widespread availability of quantum computers. Silke Auchter is currently doing her PhD, the project is funded by the EU within the Horizon  2020 project Piedmons. Other partners are ETH Zurich and the Italian E-mobility company IFEVS. you 