 - Hey everyone It's Dr. Battat with Oracle Hearing Center. I thought I would share with you today, an exciting part of my day. Today I am fitting a pair of Livio rechargeable custom fit AI hearing devices. (clears throat) I know that sounds like a mouthful but what excites me about today's visit is that these hearing aids are not only custom fit, meaning they're made to the shape of my patient's ears, and especially since she has small ear canals it's hard to hold the traditional over the ear hearing device in her ear, but they are also rechargeable. This is really the first of this kind to be offered to my patients. So excited because (clears throat) we haven't had the ability to fit rechargeable custom devices before. In addition to having these features. They are Bluetooth compatible so she can stream her eBooks and her phone conversations and music. They have built in AI so they can actually detect a fall and alert a loved one. They can track her steps so her health activity is measured, just like a smartwatch. They can do so many things actually. They can not only stream and do all that but there's an assistant, just like a Siri, just like an Alexa, and that's exciting to a double tap gives her the ability to search out with a directive. So many neat features in these tiny little things, and I get to put her that today. So (clears throat) I guess I wanted to come on and share this with you because sometimes people have the perception that hearing technology is a really big bulky whistling device that goes over our grandparents' ears and really that's just not the case anymore. These is cutting edge connected technology that provides safety, that provides hearing for soft and conversational speech that provides health management and monitoring as well. So many neat features, all in these devices that I get to fit her with today. So excited... Just thought I'd share. I hope you have a great day. I'm looking forward to the rest of mine and my exciting parts today. All right. Take care. 