 cancer is a curse that has haunted humanity since the beginning of human history. the earliest written record regarding cancer is from 1600 BC in old Egypt, and it describes a woman suffering from breast cancer, and then other cases reported by Hippocrates describing several kinds of cancers. and now, in the third millennium, we are watching monsterious attacks of cancer on our lives and wellbeing. in September 2018, the World Health Organization reported that "The global cancer burden is estimated to have rising to 18.1 million new cases and 9.6 million deaths in 2018 only. one in five men and one in six women develope cancer during their lifetime. and one in eight men and one in 11 woman die from the disease" we have to do something to stop this, stop the pain that is killing patients' Souls before killing their bodies. stop the fear and suffer that conquers the hearts of patients and anyone who loves them. all the concerned healthcare professionals are making huge efforts in many areas, like early diagnosis, new medication discovery, and increasing awareness of predisposing factors. but here we are going to discuss the efforts that AI researchers are doing to help in beating cancer. we will explain three of the most recent AI technologies that helpe in early cancer detection and diagnosis, which in turn increases the odds of beating cancer and increasing survival rates. but first let's see why we need AI's help in cancer detection and diagnosis. well, standard screening methods such as radiological imaging and pathological tests can miss signs of cancer giving false negative results when the suspected tissue looks normal for the pathologist, and also in more cases gives false-positive diagnosis when the tissue looks abnormal, even though there is no cancer. the American Cancer Society stated that "overall grams don't find about one and five breast cancers" this means that 20% of cancer patients are misdiagnosed as cancer-free. so it's very obvious that we need some help from the machines in cancer detection. let's see what AI has to give to humanity in this field so far. number one. LUNIT. LUNIT is a medical AI software company that uses deep learning technology and medical data to discover, design, and develop powerful data-driven cancer detection softwares. now they have four products, 2 products for lung cancers and two for breast cancer and the to lung cancer products are LUNIT INSIGHT CXR 1. LUNIT INSIGHT CXR 1 generates location information of detected lesions in the form of heat maps and abnormality scores, reflecting the probability that the detected lesion is abnormal. it was trained on a large scale of data, more than seventy thousand cases&lt; and performing at accuracy of 97%.  LUNIT INSIGHT CXR 1 will be a great help for pathologists in early lung cancer detection. and LUNIT INSIGHT CXR 2. which has the same function of CXR 1 but it was trained on more than 200,000 cases, and achieved an outstanding accuracy of 98 to 99%, and it's currently in preparation for worldwide approval. and then the two breast cancer software's are LUNIT SCOPE which detects cancer stroma, cancer epithelium, and lymphocytes in whole slide images, it assists pathologists and researchers to quantify the amount of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, and to discover novel biomarkers through immune phenotyping with 90% accuracy for breast cancer pathology images. and LUNIT INSIGHT MMG which detects suspicious lesion of Breast cancers. this AI identifies the location of detected lesions and the form f heat maps and generates abnormality scores reflecting the probability that the detected lesion is malignant it was trained on more than 200,000 total cases and more than 50,000 cases of cancer. LUNIT INSIGHT MMG achieved 96% accuracy. and number two from MIT computer science and artificial intelligence laboratory. this one is more about prediction and risk management. where a team from MIT computer science and artificial intelligence laboratory has created a new deep learning model that can predict from mammograms if a patient is likely to develop breast cancer as much as five years in the future. the model was trained on mammograms and known outcomes from over 60,000 patients learned the patterns in breast tissue that are precursors to malignant tumors. an MIT professor said that "the hope is for systems like thes to enable doctors to customize screening and prevention programs at individual level making late diagnosis a relic of the past" they also stated that  "the system could one day enable doctors to use mammograms to see if a patient is at greater risk for other health problems like cardiovascular diseases or other cancers". and number three Google's augmented reality microscope. which is a modified light microscope for real-time automated detection of cancer that enables real-time image analysis and presentation of results of machine learning algorithms directly into the field of view. the augmented reality microscope can provide a wide variety of visual feedback, including texts, contours, heat maps, or animations. and it's able to run many types of machine learning algorithms aimed at solving different problems such as object detection, quantification, or classification. in Google they configured it to run two different cancer detection algorithms. one that detects breast cancer metastasis in lymph nodes and another that detects prostate cancer. the results of a given model is displayed by outlining detected tumors with a green contour. the lymph node metastasis model had 98% accuracy and the prostate cancer model had 96%. but the huge advantage of the augmented reality microscope is that it runs the machine-learning algorithm in real-time without the need for whole slide digital versions of the tissue being analyzed this enabled the technology to be used on a wider scale and to be democratized for all healthcare professionals we are putting great hopes on AI technologies to improve our lives, provide better health. these three technologies are very exciting to read and hear about, but we still need more, we hope that researchers and science people keep doing their great work and give us a better tomorrow. and if you read about other new technologies, please mention them in the comments and have a nice day. 