 (upbeat music) - We built a proprietary conversational AI platform, so think Siri, Alexa, Google Home, yet it can exist on the edge, and so you can carry on full conversations with it, even if you don't have an internet connection. We've been beta testing in the market for a year and a half. As far as we know, we're the first company to get a conversational AI application into the enterprise, and we're now in deep discussions with a bunch of the biggest fast-food brands that you can think of, to bring conversational AI to a wider market. - So you feel like the technology, it wasn't good enough then, but it is good enough now for me to just carry on a regular conversation. - Yeah, yep. - And what does that look like in the fast-food market? - So, our first use case for it was drive through. So you pull into a drive-through lane, traditionally you just talk to an employee inside the restaurant. Now, our AI knows that you're there. It'll greet you, it can answer questions, and then it takes your food order and then pushes that food order into the point-of-sale system. We're also looking at kiosk and mobile integrations, and then a final one is texting. And so, we're gonna be announcing one of our new customers, and it's one of the largest concession stand companies, and it's gonna allow people to carry on a text conversation with the AI and place food orders from their seat. - What can the AI on the kiosk do that a fast-food employee can't? - Just doesn't get bored. I mean, the biggest thing for employees is they generally don't like that position of talking to the customers through the speaker system. Customers are hurried, rushed, they can be a little rude in certain situations, and for the employee, that's a stressful environment. They're also getting a lot of pressure to be doing upsells, always having a friendly environment, and that can just be really hard to do. So by automating that, then they can just focus on making the food, handing it out the window, and taking payment. And when the customer is at the window, you can have a far more personal interaction with them than you can through the speaker system. So, in our testing, the employees have been very excited about the system and it spread through word-of-mouth to the other locations with our first pilot brand, and employees at other locations started asking when they were gonna get the technology. - Cool, great. Yeah, that was awesome, thank you. - Awesome, great, okay. 