  DANIEL NEWMANN: Hello, my name is Daniel Newman. I am the founder and principal analyst at Futurum Research. JASON MANN: Hi, and I'm Jason Mann. I lead our IoT division at SAS. BILL BOSWELL: Hi, my name is Bill Boswell. I'm the Vice President of Marketing for our Cloud Application Solutions and MindSphere at Siemens Digital Industries Software. DANIEL NEWMANN: Jason, Bill, thanks for spending a little time with me. As an industry analyst, I spend a lot of time looking at how technologies are impacting the current business environment. And then, of course, what the impact is in the future. IoT is, obviously, a very important topic. And as it continues to grow, the ecosystem grows, the way it's been consumed is changing. I'd love to start out in picking your brains as two leaders of two important players in the IoT industrial software manufacturing space. And just get a feel from you on where are things at? I feel like this IoT conversation, and how IoT is going to revolutionize manufacturing has been going on for some time, and yet, sometimes I feel like we're still standing still. Bill, I'll have you start off and chat with me a little bit. But what are you seeing out there at Siemens in terms of the state of IoT in manufacturing? BILL BOSWELL: Sure. Thank you, Daniel. Well, I have to agree with you. It seems, sometimes, like people think that IoT is somewhere in the future. And where we spend a lot of time today is talking to customers if they can get started. It's real, you can begin moving forward, and start to incorporate it not only into your product design processes, but your manufacturing processes and, of course, across a wide range of industry verticals. DANIEL NEWMANN: Yeah, Jason, two years ago, we sat down together and we did a-- I believe it was a panel on IT versus OT. JASON MANN: Yes. DANIEL NEWMANN: So to your point, Bill, a lot of the hindrances that has slowed it down isn't so much about the availability and capabilities of the technology, but it's really come more down to cultural challenges, digital transformation, implementation, challenges in coordination. And so when we talked about that two years ago, we had a number of what we called gaps. We've identified all these different gaps. Now, it's been two years. You and I haven't really had a chance to sit down. So this is a great moment to ask you, what are you seeing in terms of the bridging of the gaps in IoT between IT? JASON MANN: Yeah, I think, you know again, reflecting back to two years ago. We had a lot of the POCs. Let's prove something out. A lot of those functions were just around prove it out, and they really didn't have the idea of how do you deploy into operations. So the idea of that bridge between IT and OT, where OT is really where it starts delivering value to the inner function of the company. And I think that's where we see the primary change as we now start to understand, yes, there's value to be had, but we have to deploy it. And we're starting to see some first movers seeing significant results in the area. DANIEL NEWMANN: And that's promising. And, Bill, I know you mentioned, this particularly earlier. We had a chance to having a conversation on this side, and you, actually, specifically called out IT/OT. So you're probably having these conversations over at Siemens with your clients. Are those functions working together now? BILL BOSWELL: Sure. And we're seeing, across the industry, more and more collaboration between the IT and the OT organizations. We had a customer-- when we talk about digital transformation and the journey across, not just IoT, but into things like comprehensive digital twin. The saying was, it's not the technology, it's the biology, right? It's the people processes, and getting people to come along for the change. And in the IoT arena, what we see is to be successful, you have to be successful in working with the OT teams on the shop floor and in the plants. But then for an enterprise wide decision in the cloud environments, that's typically where the IT comes together. And they share budgets now. So that's the interesting thing is they have to work together to be able to implement enterprise wide IT strategy. So I think we're getting past that. Kick the tires, POC process, and now into people realizing that IoT is real, and looking at how they can most effectively deploy it across their company. JASON MANN: Yeah, I would extend that, where we saw that the IT projects early on were really about getting access to the data. Get it into some consolidated space. The operations side of the equation is really about outcomes. So your starting to see that transition. The applied math is going to generate something that turns the levers for these companies, either to-line growth or bottom-line efficiencies. DANIEL NEWMANN: So talk a little bit about outcomes, Jason. Because on a local level, we've been long saying, oh, with all this data, all this plethora of data we're going to have, businesses are feeling the pressure. And I talk a lot about tech for tech's sake versus tech for business' sake. And if it's just for tech sake, don't do it. If it's for the business' sake, if you can attribute it to an outcome, then great. Make the investment. Of course, do your math. Figure out the return. But what are some of those expectations now? What are those outcomes that manufacturing is starting to see? Decreased downtime on a machine? I mean, those are some of the early cases, but what else? Maybe any surprises? JASON MANN: No, I think it goes back to the concept that these projects, in order to be successful, they're going to have to be validated just like every project that we've done for the last 30 years. They're going to have to move one of the KPIs that they use to measure their business. So we can talk about algorithms and AI and the cool math or the cool science that allows it, but at the end of the day, they want to reduce fuel burn or costs of fuel. They want to increase that uptime, and they have a measurement associated with that. It's about yield. So there are specific measures that they've used to manage their business for years that we're starting to see impact from this new market we call IoT. BILL BOSWELL: So I'll add onto what Jason is saying. One of the things that we see that's very exciting with customers is they're, of course, focusing on these use cases that will improve operational efficiencies or reduce downtime. But we just did some sponsored research that showed, with regard to digital twins, and how IoT plays into that that 62% of the respondents were looking at IoT as a way to add new revenue streams to their company. Not just to increase operational efficiency, but actually to find new ways to monetize their data. And I think the exciting thing about that is is that's going to improve product quality, it's going to improve insight into how the products are being used in the field, and then how they're manufactured as well. So we've got some great examples of people that are thinking outside of the box now, past the operational efficiency OEE part, and into how to drive revenue. DANIEL NEWMANN: It's interesting. We've done some research, and I can actually validate that. Companies are expansively investing in what new revenue streams could be extract from the data that they're collecting. Because so much of the data has nothing to do with the actual problems they're trying to solve, but it's like, is this data-- you hear things like data is the new oil or data is the new gold. Well, if it is oil or gold, those have tangible values even outside of their single use case. And IoT has so often been a single use case. Now, all that other data that you've enabled them with all the sensors and all the devices at the edge that are collecting, what else can be found? Which opens the door for some very smart softwares to be developed, tools to be built, and partnerships to be created. And I want to pivot for a moment here. Because there is a partnership that's being created between Siemens and SAS. A little bit more why we're here to talk about this. But of course, before I jump in to talk about the Siemens SAS partnership, I'd like to ask Bill, just because I'm not sure everybody knows about the software that you've been focused on MindSphere. If you could introduce MindSphere. Tell me a little bit about it. Tell everyone out there a little bit about what MindSphere is. BILL BOSWELL: So MindSphere, for us, is what we call the cloud based open IoT operating system. And it's an operating system in the sense of a business, right? Being able to deploy IoT in your company to do new things with it. We are built on top of Amazon Web Services. We run on Microsoft Azure as well as Alibaba Cloud in China as well. And it's out of the box. IoT solution allows you to get started fast with either apps for common industrial things that we support. For end users to get started right away, or to easily add and tailor in solutions, which is where we take advantage of the analytics from SAS because we've embedded those now in what we'd call white labeling process. So they're analytics for event stream processing are available as part of MindSphere. But we certainly go beyond that and talk about SAS as industry leader in analytics, and Siemens as the industry leader in the industrial knowledge across probably 20 different industries that we work in. And that combination of the two, we think, is going to be really powerful. DANIEL NEWMANN: I don't want to gloss over that, but what you said early on is a really important detail for a lot of people out there. Was part of I think which prevented the proliferation and deployment and growth of POC has just been the barrier to initial entry. The complication of infrastructure technology. So companies have long, actually, had connected devices. Connected devices in manufacturing facilities are not a new thing. It's growing, but it's been there. But finding a way to connect it to that back end, and finding that trusted partner. So it sounds to me like-- what you're really trying to do at Siemens is saying, what's Plug and Play? What's the SAS approach for being able to quickly get started, and being able to build this proof of concepts, deploy them at scale, operationalize them, and then leverage them to develop a more rapid growth approach to IoT and also digital transformation? BILL BOSWELL: Yeah, and device connectivity in industrial settings can really be kind of complex. When we talk about managed assets, it may be a train, it may be a wind turbine, it may be a complex manufacturing line where you're collecting 40,000 parameters at 10 megabits per second, right? And that's where you, obviously, start to get into making some smart decisions on what do I do in the edge and what I do in the cloud? And so with the event stream processing part that we're partnered up on is really kind of-- it gives people a key flexibility of, as you said in your talk today, moving computing closer to the edge. We're able to do that seamlessly and manage that through the cloud as well. And I think that's going to be a key thing in many industries. DANIEL NEWMANN: There's massive cost implications. Just at portability of data from the edge when you're collecting that many sensors, how much data. So being able to do it with event stream processing at the edge. To be able to pick the data that you need to manage there or the data you need to bring back. SAS has been working for years to solve these kinds of problems. So talk a little bit, Jason, about how this partnership-- how did it happen? Because a lot of times, big tech companies they cooperate where they need to, but not often do you see partnerships of this size really go to market with a product and say, we're working side by side. So what drove this? JASON MANN: I think it's a broader change for SAS in that you alluded to it early in the conversation. It really is about the ecosystem. So I thought it was funny in your presentation yesterday, you were talking about the start of Siemens from 1847? Yes, and with that time, you focused on these manufacturing verticals. From SAS' perspective, 43 going into 44 years. We are focused totally on analytics, and the idea of delivering the total analytics lifecycle. And as we look at opportunities to present that, especially with the fidelity of data that's being presented by the IoT market, we really want to combine these ecosystems. Analytics with this domain experience in manufacturing, because we think there is a significant combined value to both of our shared customers. So that's really the impetus. And being able to plug-in analytics into these existing ecosystems to expand shared value. DANIEL NEWMANN: Yeah, I definitely can see that. And when I heard about it, I immediately said, OK, this makes a lot of sense. Siemens has this deep trust in the industry. And just the size of the industries that you focus on from-- not just manufacturing, but health care is another vertical, for instance, for Siemens. Very deep that has a lot of connected devices. But that's just a couple. And like you said, the Siemens approach has always been very verticalized. Software, a lot of times, was always very focused on IT. Or in your case, data science, the company was very interested. And you've slowly matriculated beyond those walls. Whereas kind of the opposite. You guys were always deep in industry and you're working your way back. That's where that IT/OT divide becomes very natural. With any partnership, I hate to use the word, but I'm going to use it, synergy, right? 1 plus 1 equals 3. Well, if it's not a lot better, if it's only marginal, why do you do it? Why do you go through the pain of trying to market a partnership of all these different operations? Obviously, you guys see something bigger. You see a bigger opportunity. For those people out there that are listening to this and learning about it going, OK, we have IoT projects, we want to scale fast. We like the idea of SAS. Or not just SAS, but software as a service. We like that idea. What can they expect, Bill, for additional value that you're going to bring as a pair versus what they could get independently by working with each company? BILL BOSWELL: Well, I think lay out a couple of assumptions first. And when we talk about IoT projects, we're not really just talking about time series data and IoT data, right? The real power for us is when you start to bring this data together around the digital twin of the product, the digital twin of the production, or the digital twin of the performance or an asset in the field. You're really starting to talk about just not the bringing the data back from the asset, you're talking about combining that with all the knowledge about how it's designed, how it's built, how it's been simulated to run, how your manufacturing planning happened, how your production is supposed to happen. Then you add the product or the process is actually happening in the field. And when you bring the IoT data back into an integrated data lake where you bring all that other data, whether it's from ERP systems or PLM systems or CRM systems and multiple MES systems into one environment, that's when the power of the analytics of not just the time series data, but being able to bring all kinds of analytics to bear on that combined data that you might not know the semantics until you read it, right? And being able to bring deep analytics into that, that's an area where, of course, SAS excels. We know the domain knowledge of how to apply that, and it's not just data that's created from Siemens devices and machines, we're completely open and support 40 or 50 different protocols, and manage data from all kinds of assets in the field. And it's really about the power of bringing analytics across that data into that comprehensive digital twin, and being able to discover things in your data that you didn't know were there. JASON MANN: I think that's the key item is the discovery of things that you didn't know are there. And Bill alluded earlier to the locomotives. And we see examples where there's the asset data, there's the operator data, but then you start to enrich data around geolocation or weather or those things that can impact the other two. And being able to have that correlation and the drive-through through analytics to understand how one affects another is an additional value that we're bringing to market. DANIEL NEWMANN: I'd say, as an industry analyst, I'd look at trust as a strong factor of consideration where a lot of people have a strong trust in Siemens vertical experience. A lot of people have a strong trust in SAS and analytics experience. But they don't necessarily completely have confidence, or the same level of confidence, maybe, of the other SOC. So coming together they go, wow, that's where the 1 plus 1 equals 3 really comes in. They say, you've brought the most powerful analytics platform. You've worked at one of the world's most respected industry technology companies, and you've brought them together to basically build a solution that can be rolled out, that can be scaled quickly and easily. BILL BOSWELL: I had one thought on that, Daniel. And the trust is not only the industry experience that we have with our customers, but from a MindSphere perspective, we're in 51 of our own factories today, right? And so whatever metaphor that you like, drinking your own champagne, eating your own dog food, I mean, we're living it every day. And that's something that's unique to a company like Siemens. It has their own manufacturing across many different industries that we not only sell things to customers that help them to improve their processes, but we make sure it works first and live it everyday inside our environment. And that's a little bit different. People don't often think about Siemens as being one of the largest software companies in the world. But with the number of software engineers, we have over 24,000, that would put us in the top 10 of, probably, software companies in the world as well. And we're doing that in support of all those businesses every day, and proving that it works, and giving access to that same technology to our customers. And so that's another thing that we think is really powerful about the relationship with SAS is that it opens up our ability internally to use analytics. DANIEL NEWMANN: And to answer your question, champagne. So let's tie this all together to people out there listening. That obviously, they're hearing about the power, they may want to try it, they might want to learn more, they might want to talk to somebody. Give me the elevator pitch. Jason, Bill, either, where do they go to learn more? BILL BOSWELL: Well, I'll lay out a couple of places to go. There's a great joint white paper that talks about our vision that's out there on mindspher.io/sas, which is our website, or I believe you can go to the SAS website. It's sas.com/siemens as well, and you can find the white paper on either end of that. And that's a great place to get started. DANIEL NEWMANN: Yeah, I read the paper. And I thought it was very thorough. Gave a very good understanding of the white space and the opportunities, and where the partnership can create value. So I definitely recommend everybody out there give it a read. Bill and Jason, I want to thank you guys for chatting with me a bit. I always love as-- coming from the industry side. Hearing about what's being applied, how it's being applied, and then I love being convinced. So my goal is to come back in a couple of years and see many successful deployments so that I can go out there and say, hey, that video I did was spot on. I got these guys early on, and they've gone out there and they've had a lot of success. So definitely we'll be watching and we'll be paying attention. And hopefully, when I'm writing content and telling stories to the market, your stories are going to come top and center. But thanks for sitting down, and look forward to talking to you guys more over the next couple of years. JASON MANN: Daniel, it's always a pleasure. Thank you. DANIEL NEWMANN: Thanks, gentlemen. 