 - [Narrator] Welcome back to UpTech Report's series on AI. In this episode, we continue our conversation with Alicia Klinefelter, Research Scientist for NVIDIA. Alicia, an expert in her field has a PhD in electrical engineering. And since joining NVIDIA, her focus has turned more towards high-performance hardware including machine learning circuits and systems. In this episode we ask Alicia how are some of the biggest brands around using artificial intelligence without us even realizing it? - You know, I think that things like image classification in our everyday life that exist on Facebook, or word recognition and classification that exist on a Google search or even the ability for your phone to be able to learn on the fly like characteristics of your voice that it can identify something you're saying better compared to somebody else. I think those types of learning applications that exists right now, that we use everyday, I realize that a lot of people don't realize that it's actually machine learning, or AI happening, in the moment. And you know, those are really interesting. I think and those are kind of examples of what we call supervised learning, where you basically give a machine data. In the case of your phone learning about your voice, it constantly hears samples of your voice. And over time it kind of learns like oh, here are the little idiosyncrasies of that person's voice so I'm going to kind of you know adapt my algorithm to fit them specifically. But I think a lot of the interesting applications that are coming up are in this class of unsupervised learning algorithms. That's kind of this cutting edge class of algorithms where you actually are telling a machine to learn on it's own. You're not really giving it examples of data to learn from. You're giving it this kind of goal to meet in terms of accuracy and then you say learn on your own. And I think those class of algorithms are really gonna be at the cutting edge. - [Narrator] Are you aware of any new major tech devices that are incorporating dedicated hardware for artificial intelligence? - I mean I know they usually keep a lot of their IC's under wraps. But recently it's become pretty clear that they have integrated some special purpose hardware into their, I think, their A10 processor for doing machine learning specific workloads. Even with NVIDIA, we have our GPU lines and we're also adding dedicated accelerators within our GPU's to handle specific machine learning workloads. And that's public, so that's okay. (laughs) So I think, it's definitely we're starting to see a lot of companies, even if they have general purpose processors, finding ways to integrate those types of accelerators into the standard flow. - [Narrator] We've been hearing a lot about devices like Alexa that are making people agitated because of data security. Would machine learning at the edge help improve data security? - Alexa's a great example, and it's definitely an edge device. But it's an interesting edge device 'cause it's actually connected to mains power. So it's not necessarily battery operated. It is power limited basically by the connection to the wall of course, but I think it does give you a lot of flexibility there if you really wanted to beef up security and basically do all of your inference locally, essentially without having to go out and come back in. But yeah, it does help. - [Narrator] How are you seeing social platforms like Facebook using machine learning? - There's a couple interesting examples on Facebook I could touch on. I don't work for Facebook of course, but I know that there's a couple of simple examples of if it's something as simple as tagging somebody in a photo and doing facial recognition for example, or if it has examples of other people. If it has examples of one person's face it makes it a lot easier to train a network to basically identify that face in another context. So that would be a good image recognition task that something like Facebook could use. And it's very simple. But I think one of the interesting examples that has come up as of recent that people have been debating how to use is Facebook has these people. They're basically filters for all the negative content that goes through Facebook. They basically flag any photos that might be obscene or however you would like to describe it. And there's human beings behind, doing that identification. Looking at photos that might be quite disturbing. So a lot of people have asked is this a good application of machine learning? Can we train a machine to actually do this recognition of obscene content? And there's all of these ethical concerns and other issues that exist. Of course, if you wanted to create training data for this network you would still have to have humans in the loop to identify obscene images. So you're not really able to remove the human from that process. But I think there's a lot of interesting examples like that, that exist within machine learning and I'm sure Facebook is really looking into ways to solve that last one in particular. Since that's more of an ethics concern for them. (laughs) But besides that there's lots of simpler examples of how they use machine learning. I actually think the biggest way that they do use it is actually through advertisements. It's not necessarily through the things we think about what Facebook actually does in terms of how it's advertised to us as users. But usually some of their biggest revenue sources are really from targeting advertisements. So if you can learn about somebody's behavior online, if you can learn even what they like to click on, on various websites, what they like to search for on Google. Anything you can learn from people in terms of data they will allow you to have. Even what they and their friends are talking about. You can pretty much take that data and basically use it to very specifically target ads towards them and optimize your revenue on Facebook. And I think that's (laughs) I think that's actually one of the biggest applications, and I think it's not just Facebook. Anyone who's getting revenue from advertisements is definitely utilizing machine learning. And so, yeah, it's a very lucrative business for that. - [Narrator] What are your thoughts on the concept of data being the currency of machine learning? - Yeah a lot of people, kind of like you're saying, they'll talk about the currency of machine learning being data. And that Google is the king. Because they have data on everybody, on everything. So (laughs) I definitely believe that to be true. That's why Facebook, I mean, not to get political or weird. That is why they got caught up in the scandal with Cambridge Analytica is because data is really valuable. And that's the reality of it. And I think people are starting to realize that it's the next thing to protect. Because it's this currency. It's because companies really can take your data and make money off of it and it's what feeds a lot of these algorithms for training. - This was just a taste. Stay tuned as we share the full deep-dive interviews we had with each one of our panel of experts and our upcoming episodes focused on specific topics that will transform the way you think about artificial intelligence. All this, on Uptech Report's new series on AI. (upbeat instrumental music) 