 [MUSIC]  I really love coming to the IoT and action events. I think it's not just grounding but really inspiring to hear how our partners and customers are using our technology and learning more about their challenges. It not only helps us understand where we're on the right track, but also I've learned so much new, real great insights from our partners and customers today. We really see IoT evolving in three waves over the next three to five years. So the first wave is around connected devices, the second wave is around intelligent devices and then building on those, us getting to a point where we're really dealing with devices interacting in an autonomous system. So everyone is pretty familiar, I think with where we are right now really, which is that connected devices experience where IoT devices are gathering data from the environment and connecting them to the Cloud. But what's really interesting and exciting right now is we're starting to move into that second wave where we're seeing a lot of solutions where the marrying of the more traditional IoT connectivity experiences with AI. We're also seeing that really one of the best predictors for getting ROI out of your IoT solution is actually the use of AI to generate insights from that data that's coming. So then if you can generate data in a more automated way and then you can get insights in a more out of way that really does lay the foundations for this holy grail of autonomous systems as well. So that's really exciting. Now, the challenge with that is that, with all of that richness and all of that new technology also comes on a lot of complexity. So what we're hearing from our partners and customers is that although they really do see the benefit of that, there's a lot of complexity and a lot of costs with bringing all of that together to get to those solutions and so one of the things that we've been focusing a lot on is how can we take all of those different pieces from silicon all the way up to services. So from the hardware layer to the service layer, and how can we help partners integrate those better to get to solutions that are less spoke and less custom and really taking some of the challenges like manageability and security and AI pipeline that allows you to evolve your AI models over time and actually integrate that better so that we reduce the cost and complexity of bringing these solutions to market. So we just talked about how the burying of AI with the more traditional IoT technologies is a really great indicator for the return on investment for those solutions. But even further, the ability to actually do the edge inferencing directly on the device itself. So the sensing device being able to actually do edge inferencing there versus transporting all of that data. The Cloud actually solve some additional challenges that come up when we're dealing with these really rich sensitive datasets like the data that is around something like shopper analytics, the video data associated with that. So around that there's privacy and regulatory concern, there's latency concerns, and there's costs with transporting all of that back to the Cloud. But by being able to actually do inferencing on the sensing device, we don't end up transporting that data. We do all of the insight gathering right there on the device. So then nothing else gets transported back and we don't need to have quite as reliable or dedicated high bandwidth network back to the Cloud. That is something that we know both those two things around data security and privacy, as well as having reliable high bandwidth networks is something that retailers are really concerned with. So what we're seeing right now is that even though there's a lot of interest and all the excitement, a lot of the implementations of AI with IoT are getting stalled in the prototype phase. So I think there's some research recently that we've seen that says only about 12 percent of the products that actually start in prototype actually end up ever making it into production. So some of those complexities and challenges that become real when you actually move from trying something out to really moving into a production around security and privacy and manageability of the data. Being able to actually iterate on your AI models and regular and consistent way, all of those types of things actually start to make it very hard to move into production from your prototype. So what we're focused on right now is how do we help again with that integration layer on those things that are really more foundational, but will certainly get you installed before you can actually move into production. How do we help and remove those barriers and actually allow our customers to focus and our partners to focus on their differentiation. So we're seeing three really interesting areas where edge AI is manifesting itself in the retail environment. One of those is scenario around shopper analytics. So being able to look at and generate insights about where the shopper is going, where they're putting their attention, how they flow through the stores, where they dwell and really being able to understand that shopper journey holistically and then being able to actually improve experience based on that. So that's really a first trend that we see that's very interesting. A second trend that we're looking at is then being able to look at shelf stock and being able to understand, do you have the right inventory in the right place? Is your inventory where you actually expect it to be? Are there shoppers that you've now had that first trend, being able to look at the shopper journey? Are they finding the inventories that they need? Both of those are really interesting scenarios for looking at AI on the Edge, specifically envision AI scenarios. Then a third really interesting trend also related in building on those first two is around shrink reduction. So some of the other technology advances in IoT like automated checkout have really improved deficiency but also have created new scenarios like we call ticket switching, which is where a piece of inventory that is being checked out isn't actually matching what's on the tag when it's being checked out and so something like AI on the edge and computer vision allows us to actually look at and rationalize is that object that is being checked out, really the object that's on the tag. So those three scenarios around shopper analytics, the ability to manage and look at your shelf stock inventory, and then also the ability to manage or shrink reduction are three trends that retailers are really interested in that also can benefit from edge AI. So if partners are looking to get started with edge AI, we have a lot of really interesting resources. So some of the same materials that we just talked about, some of the same technologies that we've been discussing up on our AI at Edge community site. So the Azure Edge devices team is managing this whole set of resources that is a rich set of documents and prototypes device DevKits, as well as examples and code samples that you can use to leverage to accelerate your journey into building an edge AI solutions. So you can come and take a look at it at the AI at Edge community. [MUSIC] 