 Kedar: In our meeting with Sridhar, he brought out that if you really want to contribute to people, you need to first learn how to make your own money. Because once you learn how to make your own money, you have a way to survive. And then if you can survive, you can also spend time contributing to lives of people. Kunaal: This podcast is brought to you by Acta.ai. ACTA is an AI power meeting minutes tool, which helps in generating the meeting minutes in the text format. Classify meeting into action items and key points. Invite ACTA, virtual assistant on any platform like Teams, Zoom, WebEx, Google Meet, and see the magic unfold. Give a try and explore this opportunity with a $10 free credit for the first time users visit Acta.ai For more information. Hey, welcome to the CLL podcast today we have with us. Kedar. The more we read about HyperVerge, the more warm feeling you get to work with the HyperVerge company. How did this happen? Kedar: We started out as a bunch of students from IIT Madras. We used to represent IIT Madras an institute in India in robotics in some competitions. And each year we used to participate in this competition. After that we transformed into a Research Group where we would work on challenging AI and Machine Learning problems. So, there was no certificate for this activity. There was recognition for this activity. IIT did not. This was something that used to happen in a lab called center for innovation. So each year we would start with maybe about hundred people that we would start training and we would end up with four or five extremely passionate people. And since there was no reward for doing this, the only people who stayed back were people who are extremely passionate about. Working on technology and who absolutely enjoyed working with each other. So , it was like a family. So in some way, the kind of relationship which we had with each other as a group of students and friends that got carried forward, when HyperVerge began, HyperVerge began 4 years after the Research Group started that carried forward. And I think that's the fundamental it's one of the key fundamentals with respect to the relationships that you see at HyperVerge, the warmth that you might feel at HyperVerge Kunaal: Absolutely. Kedar. And it speaks volumes like the number of co-founders you have and how you're still running the company. So you started HyperVerge in 2014, as you said, like four years later. On that aspect with consumer AI products in mind, during the grind, you've met Zoho CEO, and he challenged you to go after 500k in the time that you have left because you're looking out to make product. And then you met the goal also, right? We know this journey because you have spoken about it on your website and a couple of articles are also written on it. However, we wanted to deep dive into how you and your whole team picked yourself up and then took up the challenge. And then within that challenge, how did the first, 10-20 days look like? And then how did you ultimately make that 500 K happen? Kedar: I will give you a quick background on what had happened before we meet Sridhar Vembu and then what happened after we met him? So before we meet Sridhar Vembu in 2014, we went to the U S to demonstrate our technology as a Research Group to some Alums. And we wanted to do a Kickstarter campaign to raise about $50,000 in funding, but people liked the technology so much that we ended up coming back with almost a million dollars in funding. And that was a huge thing at that time, because imagine a college team just going to raise $50,000 comes back with a million dollars in funding , after that for about couple of years, was a phase when we were trying to build out consumer apps. And the one app that we were extremely focused on was. We all take so many pictures and we don't have a way to, search through our old pictures, when we are looking for a particular photo that I want to find a photo of myself, say with a friend at a beach or something like that, it's very difficult to find that photo. So we realized that through the latest developments in AI, using Face Recognition, using Scene Recognition, Et cetera, we would be able to build a technology platform where if a person uploads all their photos, you have the ability to search through your photos. It's like a search engine on top of pictures. And we worked on this for nine months after we got funded and maybe three, four months before we got funded. And in 2015, as we were maybe about two months from launching our app, it was called "Silver". Uh, Google photos launched an update and that update basically made this entire functionality available on Google photos. It was available for free, and it was the default photos App on millions of Android phones. So there was no way to compete with something like that. So something that we had worked on for a year kind off, you know, the entire effort was taken away by that one launch that happened from Google as Google photos. After that we tried pivoting, we tried doing other things. We tried changing direction into other kinds of photo apps that can help users. We built a lot of very solid technology in the place at that time be it Face Recognition, very high accuracy engines that can work at very low bandwidth. We have a very high quality scene recognition. We built many pieces of technology, seamless transfer of pictures between phones without using internet. So a lot of very high quality pieces of technology were developed. But most of the apps that we were building were not getting adoption, they were not getting 500,000 downloads, million downloads, et cetera. All of them had under one lakh downloads. And we did not have many ideas on how to scale it. Beyond that we had tried out all ideas that, so this was the time when this was around. Maybe end of 2016, two years into the company were HyperVerge was known for very high quality technology. So we were getting a lot of inbound interest in terms of acquiring the company. We had interest from some of the. Global top tech companies in the world and it was a good acquisition. If, we would have gone down that path. It would have been like a double digit million acquisition. So it would have been a good outcome per se. Right, You. Start a company. & in two years it gets acquired for a double digit million. That's not a bad outcome we were only a team of about 13 people at that time, however, somehow all of us felt that our journey ending at this point in this way was not what we had set out to do. So when we started reflecting on it, we decided to take few days off to focus on understanding what is it that we are really passionate about doing if money society. What people expect from you pressure of being successful. If all of these things are thrown out of the window and none of those things are there, then what kind of work will we do? In short, what kind of work we may do if we are not even getting paid and all of us realize that we want to do work, that can contribute in a significant way to lives of people. And that is something that we all could. , very passionately. Agree upon. Now the important question was how would we go about , doing something like this, right? We have only six months or seven months of money left at that point. So how do we go about, with just seven months runway, you know contributing to people's life, be through education or be through rural employment because before we know that money will run out. So that was the time when we met Sridhar Vembu and I think those set of meetings made a very profound difference in our journey as such. Kunaal: Absolutely. &. As you said, when you're selecting your team, you're, already set the foundation and you are like reinventing that same foundation while you're, you know, shifting towards creating. Products that are going to impact a lot of people. So when you met the Zoho CEO and then now you want to take a turn around what, what needs to be done. So what was the, those days where you met the Zoho CEO and then you wanted to do things, so did you immediately identify the product that you're going to be working on, or like your team came together, huddled together. They're identified the ideas and then went with it and. What of them led to basically the digital KYC. Kedar: Very good question. So in our meeting with Sridhar, he brought out that if you really want to contribute to people, you need to first learn how to make your own money. Because once you learn how to make your own money, you have a way to survive. And then if you can survive, you can also spend time contributing to life now the question was, how do we get about 500K. Which was the money that we need to earn in our first year that where will that money come from? Sridhar said a nice thing. That you need 500k to survive? And some part of that can come through Zoho. So one thing was very clear that Zoho can be one of our first clients. And we started a lot of effort in that direction. Now you asked that very clear about what product will we build. Aa what will make us money? What we'll get product market fit. I would say absolutely the opposite. as we think we had absolutely no clue of how will we get there? But we created a thesis where we said where ever there are people processing hundred million plus images, our skills are extremely valuable because usually there is a huge difference in something being 90% accurate. 95% accurate 99.5% accurate. HyperVerge plays in that zone of 99.5% accuracy. and that Accuracy becomes really really important when you're looking at a hundred million images, because, well, imagine 10% error on, hundred million is a huge number of errors that are happening. So basis that, we actually went after eight different problems. Because we were trying to figure out what would enterprises want. And we looked at different sectors. So we looked at manufacturing, we looked at or ATM and security kind of applications. We looked into the automation of traffic management or the fines, et cetera, that happens. So we look at various areas of whereever we thought that there are, a hundred million plus images that had been processed. Through one of our advisors, we got connected a leader named Kalidas Ghosh, who is the CEO of FE Credit, which is one of the leading FinTech company. And when we explained Kalidas about our capabilities and the technology that we had built, he could see an application of it in his business for the KYC process. So that time, it was not even very clearly called KYC. It was basically customer verification. So we started building with Kalidas & FE Credit or 60-70% of our learning actually came from our client itself, he taught. They taught us kind of frauds happen, how to customer verification or the KYC process happened. And How finding each fraudulent case may save a thousand dollars for them or $2,000 for them. So huge part of our learning came from our client and that's how we got to the Product-Market Fit Kunaal: Another thing, while you're speaking about this, there was this fraud. That happens in digital KYC and your products basically has learned to deal with it. Like for example, taking an image and trying to verify it, and you have successfully solved that. So can you let our audience know how that challenge. You identified and solved it through AI. Kedar: KYC is needed. Every time you are opening a bank account, you're applying for a loan. You're applying for a credit card or an, a whole lot of other same card, many other functions. Now, many of these, if you reflect are very prone to fraud right, if you can. Get a fake loan or something like that. You can run away with that money. You can, if you get a SIM card like as in, if you get a real SIM card on a fake account or something like that, you can do many things with it. So all of these are places where there is a high motivation for fraudsters to break because they can actually make money if they break through. So we started in terms of solving the problem, you can imagine, like any team that hasn't had any experience in this area. We had very little experience so, we had to learn a lot on the job when we were working with some of our partners , early partners, we looked through data of what kind of frauds have they faced? What kind of challenges are they facing with respect to fraud? And we used a lot of that learning wherever, there were manual processes, which were catching maybe limited percentage of frauds that were happening. We started taking those learnings and converting them into., AI modules, which were, we started catching like 90% of the fraud eventually 95% of fraud. And then today that number is much higher. So a whole lot of learning again, came from clients. It came from what kind of frauds they had seen received at the time. Also fraud is an area where it is impossible for you to have a foolproof solution for too long, because as they say, as our defense becomes stronger, people also adopt and they've figured out newer ways to, fool the system. Kunaal: find a loophole, Yes Kedar: So we always have to, you know, anticipate what they would do. We have internal teams trying out many experiments, some parts we are able to anticipate successfully. Some parts they break through, but we try to ensure that in a matter of few days, we plug that gap right. Like we create a new piece of technology that stops them getting through. So it's little bit of a cat and mouse kind of a game. Kunaal: Absolutely. You are at pressure to absolutely. Stay ahead. All the time. Kedar: Yeah. So we did last year 280 million KYC across multiple clients, just in India. So you can imagine, if you know all critical systems like a Telecom or FinTech, all these clients, what could be the implications of fraud. So they keep us on our toes with respect to all these cases. Kunaal: So speaking of a scale like this, the number of users that you have technology or the hardware that, that goes behind, it plays a big role in it. Right? And so are there any team members in your, in a company that solely, initially focused on building the hardware structure, or you know, to reducing that time? For verification, all of that. And how does that look like? Like how did you manage the hardware challenges to serve these many customers? Kedar: So it started with taking a clear call very early that we are not going to do this on premise because we could see that there is no on premise that can possibly handle this scale, super-reliably. The first important decision that at least for this kind of scale, we have to be "On - Cloud". And then who could be the right partners on the cloud that can provide us this kind of Scale and flexibility. So one important decision was that. There were many other decisions when you're looking at 280 million kind of a scale. Oh, the technology challenges on it, are varying, you can imagine the AI engine has to work at this scale, which means it should not be that in one state of INDIA, it is letting people through. And in other state, because the photos look different or something like that, your AI engines are performing in a different way. So those are things that are called us biases. So we had to ensure that our AI engines perform and that they don't have any biases. We have to ensure that at 280 million of scale, imagine the number of devices that are there. There are our technology that year was working on 100,000 unique Android devices. So each of these devices come with their own . Nuances that we have to solve for. Also at this scale, you can imagine that the split is completely across the spectrum. We are looking at rural population. We are looking at urban population or semi-urban population. You are getting all kinds of bandwidth. You know, someone might be using a very low bandwidth 2G connection, and someone can be using a 4G connection. And how do you manage that? & then the stability of the platform itself that you mentioned that it should scale as demand increases seamlessly, there should not be downtime and all of these challenges. So these are I, and many more that, uh, you know, maybe I'm not articulating right now. So the good part of our team is that through all of this time, we were still a very small team, when we hit that number, we still had a team of about just 40 people managing these number of users. So because it's also a small team that has worked with each other for such a long time, people work extremely well together. Whenever challenges come not like this is not my area. I won't deal with this, et cetera. Everyone is aware about most things. So we basically had two set of challenges. One was on the business side of things. Business Model etc & other was on the tech side of things. The tech side challenges, we are led by Vignesh & Sai. Who are my cofounders? Vignesh is our CTO , Sai is our Head of Engineering. And they've worked very closely with our core team on solving these problems. The business side of challenges were led by the other co-founder side and the core team members that were working on it. Kunaal: As you can see, I know it's a unique company with so many founders and you have already set that intention or the team very well so that it withers through a lot of challenges. Well, we've also seen that you are getting into video KYC with SBI and can you give us a need of making such a shift with digital KYC was getting done, but why Video KYC? And what difference does it make? Kedar: It really starts with the regulator. very proactive regulator, they continue to understand what are the new technologies that are out there. What could be the new ways that they can make available to financial institutions, to serve their customers. so the regulator came out with eKYC. then came out with digital KYC like that this year the regulator came out with video KYC, which is a way. To onboard a customer using video, now once the regulator launches that this is something that they are allowing. Now, there are all of us who are technology partners as well as the Financial Services, big giants, such as SBI etc. Everyone pays attention to how can the latest regulation change or the latest. Opening up of regulation can be used to serve the customers better. And so that led to the demand for it, right? Like suddenly now, we are all exploring or experimenting together. How can we possibly use video KYC to serve the customers better, coming to working with, SBI working with large organizations on video KYC? SBI is a household name, In any any language and in any state people know SBI. In fact, SBI has, I have seen SBI branches in Nepal also. So it's such a household name that it's in a way reaching, possibly every household of India in one way or the other, for someone like SBI. It's very important that. Now, specially in COVID times when people are not able to go to the branches, people are not able to be it pensioners or be it anyone. Everyone is afraid of going to a branch to do something of how can they provide an alternate way for people. To get a credit card to apply for a loan. And so many other things, that I think led to the huge investment from them towards solution. Kunaal: I think again, your existing experience sort of transfers now into the video world of doing things. Kedar: Correct. Kunaal: So now that we have spoken about your main. Product that you have, let's focus on some things that you have mentioned about solving real world problems and education seems to be of big interest to you. You also told that you started it in IIT with Lema Labs, teaching a lot of students, and that's how you basically have your co-founders today. So by any chance you are working on anything on the education portion here. And what are some of the ideas that you're currently working in this part of it? Kedar: After meeting, Sridhar we have decided that as per his guidance, we will first figure out company's survival. The moment, we are now clear that the company is going to survive, right? We are able to make our, uh, expenditure happen through the revenue that we make and it is happening consistently over a year or so. We will start effort towards very active effort towards contributing to people now coming to education, when we look at India, our country is full of so many challenges. And one of the biggest challenges that, income levels are very low, that recently if you read our per capita GDP is, or in fact, even lower than Bangladesh as of today. So it's very important that we are able to increase the income of a household, right? If there is a family of four, there has to be an effort into. How can the same family instead of making maybe 10,000 rupees a month or 7,000 rupees a month, can we take this family to a place like Rs. 20,000,- Rs.30,000,- Rs.40,000 a month by providing them skills, et cetera. So if you, if we look at traditionally how a family's economic ability change, one of the oldest tools in our thing has always been education, that is why there is so much emphasis on education in India, where even if the parents in a family were not literate, they would want their kids to, you know learn so that the kids at least can ensure that the family gets out of poverty or so. From that point of view, education is very close to our heart. It is a tool where the negative impact possible is very limited and the positive impact would be very high for that reason. Education is important now coming to the efforts that we are trying to do in this direction, Lema Labs has existed for 10 years. And the main idea of Lema Labs was to make emerging technologies. The education related to emerging technologies, such as Machine Learning or Robotics, et cetera, available to every middle-class student out there where through one month of a middle class families salary, a student should be able to learn these technologies, because this is exactly the way we learnt it. All our parents are, you know, we all come from a very middle class family. No one comes from a family of means, but we were able to. Do what we are able to do because of the, because of the exposure with respect to technology that we bought. So Lema Labs is working on that area. HyperVerge specifically, what we are doing is. Right now, the initiative that we have our goal is to take, 2,000 families out of cycle of disadvantage. or cycle of poverty as you can call it one of the efforts that we are doing is when you know, these families have kids who are maybe in the age of 20 to 25. And currently there are certain jobs, like a BPO job or something like that. We have seen. How can we teach them technology which will allow the same person to earn, instead of Rs. 15,000, they learn Front End development, the same person can be earning Rs. 30,000 And that extra Rs. 15,000 can be used to get his family or her family out of the debts that they have or so many other things. So that is an initiative that we have started and we have our first batch of students that we are working with them to hopefully bring them out of this cycle of disadvantage very soon. Kunaal: Great Initiative, Kedar now coming to one of the mindsets in the education, right? Not all of them are having that mindset to adopt or learn technology and then apply it. So do you see some level of scrutiny that you provide to teach or is there a level of, uh, teaching that you do such that anybody can get technology? Right. So I wanted to get your thoughts around that. I myself have done so many batches and there are those set of people ended up those few people that actually get it. And that has a large segment of people that don't get it, or they're not able to learn these technologies. So do you see the similar patterns and. Are you trying to do something different in terms of teaching them or exposing to the ML and AI education? Kedar: Very good question. And very good observation. I would like to point out that there is a problem that is even more fundamental than this, which is a lot of people actually know decently well, how to build things meaning they are, they're not technology hands on, but they have not so good communication because of which they are losing out on opportunity. So for a whole lot of people like that, even if they just get a little bit good at communication, if someone guides them over a period of say three to four months, they can actually get a lot of good job opportunities, et cetera. So that is one segment, now coming to people who were learning technology, itself is a challenge, like you pointed out. Oh, we are very, a lot of experience in Lema Labs taught us One thing that if someone is not inspired or motivated, then they cannot be taught. Right? So the first job is to inspire them if they, cannot be inspired to learn, anything that we teach will not, or. Oh, we grasp right and technology, particularly such that usually any person like a HyperVerge or Lema Labs can only light a spark, but there already has to be a lot of fuel on already out there that will catch fire. In most of my students, I've seen that they just need someone who will give them direction, support them. Through that time, talk to them like a friend guide them, but they already have the most critical part of it, which is hunger to learn hunger to grow so everywhere where we find that students have that hunger, I have seen communication or nothing comes in the way of them in progressing. where things can be challenging is where you know, that hunger to learn or hunger to grow for some reason, be it social, be it their life situation, et cetera, because of some reason that hunger to grow or learn has been killed, or has is low there, it becomes very challenging. Kunaal: Absolutely. And a very interesting point, Kedar it's basically. You seek and you should get, but if you can think on spirituality, like nice, another initiative you mentioned about Kedar is supporting nano entrepreneurs. Can you tell us who falls under this criteria of nano entrepreneurs? And also, can you tell us about some of the initiative on the nano entrepreneurs or supporting nano-entrepreneurs? Kedar: So the nano-entrepreneurs initiative actually happened as a very good accident to us as COVID happened, fortunately HyperVerge was financially sound. We were not one of the sectors that was hit as bad as many other sectors. Everyone was hit for a couple of months, but we recovered faster than others. I would say, not because of a great technology team or something just that we happen to be in a sector that recovered faster as well. Now in this time, we are seeing that people are losing jobs and a whole lot of unemployment is out there. Even our day to day, sustainance is becoming a challenge and our salaries are intact. Right? We are getting our monthly salary,so there was an initiative inside HyperVerge to, support a certain set of families. We said we will adopt a certain set of family, , through the Covid times. So from now to till, they find their job again, we will support them. And these are families who someone was a auto driver. Someone was. a, bookkeeper in a biryani shop or something like that. Like simple jobs that we see in our day to day life. Now we were supporting all these families, maybe every alternate month or every alternate week, we would transfer about thousand rupees so that they can buy or government is giving ration, but you need much more than ration, right? You need a toothpaste, you need so many other things and what not. So we been supporting them day to day essentials through this time. And we realised that there are some of these people who are extremely entrepreneurial so Vignesh, who is my cofounder, he found that the person he was mentoring or supporting was such that if we just gave her, she had a business idea. If we all she needed was like Rs. 6,000 - Rs. 7,000 loan. And if that is given to her, she already has a clear idea about how to run her own business. A small business, one person, two people business. And we tried that out. We gave her that money and she actually went and people were not getting out of their houses. So she went to a wholesale place she got a lot of ladies gowns & this that and all. Locality that she stayed she was able to sell it. And she was able to start making money income. Whereas for many months her income was zero. One of the people I was mentoring, he was an auto guy. And after talking to him for a while, I realized that, Before being an auto driver, some years back, he actually used to sell vegetables onion, garlic or et cetera. And all he needed was like a support of 10,000 rupees. And he went and bought, onion, garlic, ginger, things like that potato & he knew how to sell it. He knew where to buy it from, so he had all the knowledge already. And in his first and he was so he's so good at that every month now he's able to make at least 10,000 rupees for his family, all that was needed from us is to give that initial 10,000 rupees to a person who already knows what they want to do. If they had that Rs. 10,000/-. And instead of giving him Rs. 1,000/- each 15 days for sustainence, it's much better to give him that money, which gives pride to run his business so many things. So that was the inspiration for nano- entrepreneurs. And we were also looking at which organizations are doing a great job in this area. We found Udhyam , which is way ahead of us. They have been doing this for a long time and we have now partnered with, Udhyam . They bring a lot of domain knowledge. We bring in our expertise with respect to technology. so now we are seeing how can together, we take this to instead of 20, 30 families. Can we take this to a number like 2000 families over this year? Kunaal: Great Initiative, Kedar one thing I noticed is that you, yourself and your cofounders are willingly doing mentorship to these nano-entrepreneurs, which I assume then translates back to your company also, right? So mentorship so, is mentorship, big part or culture of your company. Like you have different levels of mentorship going on throughout the company. Kedar: We have thrived on having great mentors because of, from imagine from a student team to running a real business, it takes an entire village to raise a startup so there have been so many mentors who have selflessly helped us out. At, so critical juncture. This includes IIT Professors our alumsand so many other people that we came across in life that just helped us. I never expected anything in return for that. So in some way, when we are helping all these nano entrepreneurs, it's like a pay forward. Someone did that to us, we need to do that to as many people as we can as well. We need to be there for as many people as we can not do anything, just be there for them. Within the organization, I would give you an honest answer. Last year, HyperVerge grew 8X. So we all were just. Running behind somehow managing that scale, right? Zero, like from a 1X to 8X. And we, all our systems came under pressure. Everyone was doing maybe double or triple the work that they should be doing, kind of things were happening. So this Covid has given us a big break that way. And in a way that, you know, things are not going as crazy. And we have used the time now to establish strong mentorship frameworks, et cetera. But I would not say that we did a great job at it last year Kunaal: absolutely. I think so. You're managing scale at a lot of things within this period itself. I think so the intent is there & it will come through some someday or the other. With this we'll basically go to the rapid fire round, uh, for this particular podcast. The first question for this rapid fire round is bootstrapped versus funding. What do you prefer? Kedar: I personally would prefer Bootstrapped now, Kunaal: Micromanagement vs Macromanagement Kedar: Mentorship more than Micromanagement and Macromanagement Kunaal: Batman versus Superman, Kedar: Batman, you know, we can aspire to be Batman. How do we aspire to Superman. Kunaal: Yes, absolutely. And one thing common, we seen all tech minds is that Batman comes out as a daring person. What are the AI solutions closest to your heart? Kedar: The closest to my heart is not a AI solution. It's not Artificial intelligence, the closest to my heart is yoga, which is you're much more sophisticated than any piece of technology that we have right now. Kunaal: What name do you prefer to use other than human resources? Kedar: We don't use Human Resources at all at HyperVerge. So we use talent acquisition or talent team at Hyperverge basically it's nurturing of talent. So I think resources is something I had learned in a program that it gets over it gets spent. Talent is something that gets honed, right. That gets manifested. So that manifests itself out there in the world. So it's Talent, Kunaal: What is the best compliment you have ever gotten from a client? Kedar: That they want to work with us or in spite of where they're not able to justify the reason why they want to work with us, but they just want to work with us. We actually had a very large client and I would love to name them, but they, this Covid time and all they had in house technology and they had that in house technology could take over whatever, some parts of what we were doing, but they said, no, we still want to work with HyperVerge. And that completely surprised us, everyone is under financial pressure. And they also have some in house technology that can. Replace parts of what we do, but they chose not to use it. Yeah. That was a really crazy experience. Kunaal: Are you a early morning worker or a late night worker? Kedar: I have loved being an early morning, but circumstances push me to be a late night person. So yeah. Do Kunaal: Do you think Fitness is important for the thinking work that you do. And I know you mentioned yoga, but. I want your perspective on this. I feel overall wellbeing is basis on which we create everything. If that's shaky, then whatever we create will also be very limited. So this would be come to the conclusion of the rapid fire round. You attended the, I think the Isha leadership Academy program. And what was your experience before going to that program and what are the significant changes on mindset change? But that you bought into the company after going through that leadership program. Kedar: It was a very powerful program, mainly because it was a lot of peer to peer learning. You had people who were chief human resource officers or CXOs coming from different organizations, such as Google. Yeah. Amazon or many organizations and everyone was Isha itself. There were from. Everyone was openly sharing with each other about it. What are the best practices that are working for them? What are the mistakes they have done that we should not be doing? So this was the peer group that was there for the program. Okay. The biggest takeaways for me personally, the first thing is Human is not a resource. That's the biggest takeaway it's unlimited potential. But if you, if. If we know how to look at it as potential and how to work with it as potential, it's not a resource that gets spent the most, second, most important learning was that you never hire a person. Or you never get a teammate to solve a problem. You always look for a person to build the organization. So don't hire people because I have a painful problem right now. And let me get someone to solve this today's painful problem. Let's get someone who will be a great companion for the next many years to come. So that was the second biggest learning that I had from the program. The third biggest learning was there are two exactly type of company than there might be many, but we learned about two kinds of companies. One word as the company scales, the culture breaks and culture becomes weaker and weaker. And this other kind of company is a company where as the company scales, the culture becomes stronger and stronger. You know how to possibly be a company where the company scales, the culture becomes stronger was a very big as well. So these were the top three learnings, I would say from the program, there were many more, but these are the top three. Kunaal: Absolutely. And, uh, this basically we have spoken about how you spend a disproportionate amount of time onboarding someone. You've already walked us through the principles or the learnings that you have from this program. But can you walk us through some of your company's code, a process to basically onboard a particular person? And this is so because some of the audience that is listening to us who would like to know, or if they want to apply to HyperVerge, what to expect, what to be prepared for. That's the perspective we want to know from you. Kedar: So two parts to what you asked. One part is, Oh, What do we do with respect to, how do we select new teammates who we are excited about joining HyperVerge. And the second part is What should a person be looking for. Is there a plan to help, which I'll address the first part? Okay. So various kinds of organizations are built some organizations are built where 2-3 years let's scale, fast let's exit. Let's get our multimillion dollar exit. Everyone makes money and off, and then everyone goes their own way. The other kind of organization. Uh, are where you are looking at Zoho, right? It has been around for such a long period of time that you are building an organization over a few decades. If you are looking at building an organization or few decades, like HyperVerge is then the most important thing to build is people, right? Because you will not build that multi-decade organization, but you will build a strong team. That will or rather you will make happen. A strong team that will end up making happen a much larger organization. So in our process, we are looking for obviously everything that every company looks for, skill maturity, integrity, ability to work well in team. So many things that all of us look for, but beyond all of that, we also look for. Alignment with respect to our longterm vision. Our long term. Vision is not about how each of us become millionaires or whatever. It's about how do we make possibly a difference to a million people's life. So we look at that alignment and we end up meeting a lot of people were extremely clear about something like that. We also end up meeting. A lot of people were really smart. But then they are looking for, you know, something in the next two years they are looking at, or they want to be here and then they want to jump to one other place where they been. You know do that and things like that. So we try to look at people who will build organization over the next few decades with us. Kunaal: Thank you for sharing that journey, we are trying to basically create this community around education. with, the experience that you have from Lema Labs and teaching a lot of folks in terms of technology. And do you have any advice for tech communities and what should they be focusing on and how the education? Should it be looking like within this company so that they can scale communities and impart the right education at a cost that is minimal for everybody to undertake, any advice for communities? such as us. Kedar: For anything like this to work. The one thing I have observed in education is there are some people who are needed, who tirelessly work over many years without asking the question, what is in it for me? Right. Every brilliant teacher that has inspired me in some way had maybe not a hundred percent altruistic but had some element of this, right? That they are willing to go beyond what they are needed to do. Oh, beyond what is expected out of them rather to go out there and do something beyond all of that. Right. And in many places, this could be a little bit of a Thankless job in terms of, just because you go out of your way, doesn't necessarily mean that you may make more money or something like that. Uh, what I've seen is that every time I see, or teacher who is willing or a committed community member who is willing to do whatever it takes, asking the question, what is in it for me, Well, if three, four or five people make this happen, then naturally community over the years grows and thrives. I feel, that is the most fundamental fit usually communities, break because for a set of people it's relevant in life. At some point of time, then they outgrow it they have different interests. They have different ideas, et cetera. And they go, all, all of them go their own way. So that I feel is the most fundamental. Kunaal: Absolutely. And thank you for sharing these learnings Kedar. It has been a wonderful journey going through all of these aspects. I, for myself, learned a lot and will definitely keep so many of these learnings with me. With this, we come to the end of the podcast and Hey Kedar, thank you for sharing your journey with us, your learnings and the story of HyperVerge. I, for myself learnt a lot. I'm sure there's a lot to take away for the audience here and thank you for coming to our podcast. And it was wonderful talking to you. Kedar: Thank you guys. Thanks for calling me for the podcast. It has been a pleasure the way this whole thing was planned. I did find that you guys did a lot of homework before this, so I'm sure that each podcast that you guys are conducting is only getting better and better. I would urge everyone to subscribe to co-learning lounge the YouTube channel and join the community. I think it's a genuine effort in the direction of building a community. It's important that we support it. Kunaal: We would like to thank Acta.ai for sponsoring this podcast. If I mix up the meetings, he's like pass invite astronaut. Yeah. I spoke with a meeting. 