 Hey guys. Welcome to the session by Intellipaat. Now you guys would have come across the terms artificial intelligence, machine learning and deep learning and numerous questions would have popped into your head. So today's session would help you to understand the difference between these three terms. So let's have a quick glance at the agenda. We'll start off by understanding the difference between artificial intelligence, machine learning and deep learning and then we'll understand the different types of machine learning algorithms. After that we will understand the limitation of machine learning. Going ahead we'll see how does deep learning would come this limitation of machine learning. Following which we will look at the working mechanism of deep learning. And finally there'll be a quiz to recap what we've learned in today's session. So put down all of your answers in the comments section. to know if you answered correctly. And also you can put down your queries. We would love to help you out. So without much delay. Let's start off with the class. So I'll start off by asking you a very simple question. So tell me what is it that makes humans intelligent? Well, we as humans can think, learn and make decisions. And that is what makes us intelligent. Now imagine if machines can show human like intelligence. A machine which can think and make decisions like humans. Now it is truly amazing, isn't it. So artificial intelligence is basically that field of computer science which emphasizes on the creation of intelligent machines which can work and react like humans. So now that we know what artificial intelligence is, let's see where do machine learning and deep learning fed in. So you can consider artificial intelligence to be the broader umbrella and machine learning and deep learning to be a subset of it. You can also say that machine learning and deep learning are a means to achieve artificial intelligence. Now let's see what machine learning is? So, machine learning is basically the subset of artificial intelligence where we teach a machine how to make decisions with the help of input data. So we'll understand machine learning with this little example. So what do you see over hear? What is this exactly? Well it's a bird And what about this? This again is a bird and this well this too is a bird. Now how do you do all of these are birds. Well as a kid, you might have come across a picture of a bird and you would have been told by your kindergarten teacher or your parents that this is a bird and your brain learn that anything which looks like that is a bird. And that is how our brain functions. But what about a machine? Now if I take in this image of the bird and feed it to a machine. Will it be able to identify it as a bird? So this is where machine learning comes in. So what I'll do is I'll take all of these images of the birds and keep on feeding them to the machine until it learns all the features associated with it. And once it learns all the features associated with it, I'll give it new data to determine how well it has learned. Or in other words, first I'll feed in training data to the machine so that it can extract or learn all the features associated with the training data. And once the learning is done, I'll give it new data or the test data to determine how well the learning is done and this is the underlying concept of machine learning. Now let's head onto deep learning. So deep learning is the subset of machine learning where we develop intelligent algorithms which mimic human brain. So now the question which arises over here is how do we mimic human brain? Well to answer that, let me ask another question. So what is a brain composed of? Well our brain is primarily composed of neurons isn't it. And these neurons send and receive electrochemical signals. So we have a neuron over here and the electrochemical signals are received from the dendrite. The processing of these signals is done in the cell body and the output of these input signals is sent to other neurons to the axon and if our task is to mimic human brain, all you have to do is create artificial neurons and these artificial neurons work the same way as biological neurons. So to implement deep learning, we'd have to create artificial neural networks and these artificial neural networks companies comprises of an input layer, hidden layer and then output layer. So all of the inputs are received through the input player and the processing is done in the hidden layer and the final output received through the output layer. And to sum it up artificial intelligence is the broader umbrella. Machine learning is the subset of artificial intelligence and deep learning is the subset of machine learning and machine learning and deep learning are basically methods to achieve artificial intelligence. Now that we have understood the basic difference between artificial intelligence, machine learning and deep learning. Let's go ahead and look at these subcategories of machine learning. So, Machine learning a subcategories into supervised learning, unsupervised Learning and reinforcement learning. So let's start off with supervised learning. In supervised learning, we teach the machine using data which is lebelled. Let's say we have a bunch of fruits and each fruit is tagged with the label. So here, the machine learns that an apple looks like this. A mango looks like this. A banana looks like this and an orange looks like this. So once the training is done, the machine is fed with new data or test data. So here the machine is fed with the new image of Apple and the machine predicts that there is a 97 percent probability that this is an apple. Now supervised learning can again be divided into classification and regression. So classifying the input data is a very important task in machine learning. For example whether the mail is genuine or spam. Whether the transaction is fraudulent or not. And there are multiple examples. So let's say you live in a gated housing society and your society has separate dustbins for different types of waste. So one dustbin for paper waste. One for metal waste. One for plastic waste and so on. So now what you are basically doing over here is classifying the waste into different categories. So the classification is the process of assigning a class label to a particular item. And in this example, we are assigning the labels paper, metal, plastic and so one to different types of waste. And one thing to note in classification algorithms is that the output variable is categorical in nature. Let's take this example to understand it better. So over here we have gender of the student and result of the student. Here gender is the input variable or the independent variable and result is the output variable or the dependent variable. So we see that our output variable is categorical in nature. That is, it has two categories either pass or fail. And here we are trying to determine whether the student will pass the exam or not on the basis of the gender of the student. So there are different classification algorithms such as decision tree, random forest, naive bayes, and support vector machine to name a few. So let's go through the concept of Decision tree briefly. Decision Tree as the name states is a tree based classifier in machine learning. You can consider it to be an upside down tree where each node splits into its children based on a condition. So let's take this example to understand decision tree better. Here we are building our decision tree to find out if the person is fit or not and based on a series of test conditions, we finally arrive at the leaf nodes and classify the person to be fit or not. So the next type of supervised learning algorithm is regression. So when it comes to regression, the output variable or the dependent variable is a continuous numerical. So let's take this graph over here. Here we have horsepower on the Y-axis and miles per gallon on the X-axis. Or in other words, horsepower is the dependent variable and miles per gallon is the independent variable. So we see that the output variable is a continuous numerical. And here we are trying to determine how does the horsepower of the car vary with its MPG. So this is the concept of regression. Now let's see some of the use cases of supervised learning. So first we have spam classifier. So how do you think your mail is being classified as whether it is spam or not. This spam detection basically works on the concept of filters. So mainly there are two types of filters, text filter and client filter. The text filter works by using algorithm that detects which words and phrases are often used in this spam email. So phrases like like lottery or you won or free bitcoin are often an immediate flag for removal by filters. So next is the client filter. As the name states, client filter understands the client identity and history to block malicious and annoying spam e-mail. So how does this client filter work. Well this is done by looking at all the messages of a certain user which he has sent out. So if a user has sent out huge amount of e- mails constantly or several of the users messages have already been marked as spam then in that case their e-mail will be blocked entirely. So this brings us the use of blacklist. So spam filters also include something known as blacklist. So blacklisting is the process of adding known email addresses of a spammer to a list. And this list prevents the user's messages to be forwarded to someone else. Now let's look at the next use case. Fingerprint analysis. So in fingerprint analysis, you save your fingerprint in a machine as a record. The machine takes the data and verifies whether the data belongs to you or not. So once the data is saved into the machine. From next time whenever you put your fingerprint on the machine. The machine will scan through all of its user data. And if the machine finds a match of your fingerprint and its data, then your fingerprint will be verified. Now that we've completed the different types of supervised learning algorithms, let's go ahead and understand what is unsupervised learning. 