 To really capture the value of Artificial Intelligence many of our clients are working through the challenge of how to get these algorithms out of the data center and into edge devices in the hands of their customers. The engineering of AI for a real-time, low-power inference, and sometimes learning, often requires new skills to be brought into the team. We recently helped the AI development team of an Asian technology giant with the edge component of their intelligence platform. We accelerated their AI algorithms by 10 times on the candidate edge compute devices, and gave them a true performance benchmark on which to base their design decisions. The challenge they were facing was that whilst AI frameworks like TensorFlow and PyTorch are open and cross-platform, as soon as we deploy the models onto specific processors the tools become much less straightforward, and are specific to each device. Consequently our client engineering team had struggled to get some of their models to run fast enough. And others had failed to convert at all. Our team was able to identify which parts of each model were not needed for inference, or operations which were supported in different ways on the different processor platforms. By considering these, and a host of other optimization techniques, we were able to shrink the model by 75% and the memory by 80% and made it run 10 times faster. and all whilst only dropping 3% in accuracy. And where certain features of other models were simply not supported in our tools we could advise on potential workarounds. As a result of our work the client had a true measure of the performance of the candidate processor platforms for the specific workloads they cared about. And an understanding of the abilities and constraints of the tools. This gave them confidence to move forwards with their vision of putting AI into the hands of their customers in factories and hospitals and cities globally. If you'd like to talk more about building high-performing, embedded AI systems at the edge, or any other business challenge needing a unique AI solution. Please get in touch. You can find out more about our work at cambridgeconsultants com/ai 