 There’s a rumor that Insomniac hid a tribute to the Twin Towers in Spider-Man. But it’s not true. Here’s what people are seeing in the clip that’s making the rounds: a ghostly reflection of two towers on the side of a building — towers that aren’t actually there, if you spin the camera around. And what’s off in the distance when Spider-Man reaches the top of the building? The game’s stand-in for Freedom Tower. But what you are seeing is actually the misplaced reflection of the same building you are climbing, along with the reflection of the neighboring building. The towers in the reflection have different textures. This tower has the same pattern of windows as the tower spider-man is on. The other tower clearly has the same paneling as the one on the right. And if you look at the lower portion of the ghost towers, you’ll see that they have terraces that aren’t consistent with the design of the World Trade Center. But they are consistent with the building spider-man is climbing. Seeing the reflection of the building you’re climbing ON the building you’re climbing is trippy as hell, but it’s a result of the way Spider-Man creates reflections. Some games use ray-tracing to create mirrored surfaces that accurately reflect the 3D space around them. But Spider-Man uses an older technique called cube-mapping, as Digital Foundry explains in this excellent graphical teardown. Cube-mapping takes still images from the game’s environment and uses them to create the illusion of a reflection. Insomniac basically put together a google street view style photo library of THEIR New York City. The game grabs whatever image best approximates the player location and turns it into a “reflection.” Most of the time it’s not accurate — but it’s good enough. So, back to our mystery towers. To simulate a reflection, the game pulls the cube map for this area — and in this case the nearest cube map appears to have been created using still images from THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF THE TOWER. So, actually you’re seeing the south sides of these towers, reflected on the north. It’s a bizarre thing to wrap your head around — but it’s definitely not an easter egg. Spider-Man’s 9/11 reference is more straightforward. Near the game’s stand-in for the freedom tower, you can hear tour guides talking about evacuating the island after the attack. Insomniac may not show the the towers, but it’s not ignoring the city’s history. 