 It’s 8 a.m. at Jens Jänecke’s supermarket in Adendorf: Today, I reckon, we’ll have more customers than this time last year. That is an indication of the work ... ... we have put in in the meantime, and the trend has certainly been very stable. You can’t hear it, you can’t feel it, but it’s plain to see on the evolutionary ladder of the retail trade that the pulse of ... ... Jens Jänecke’s supermarket now beats only in ones and zeroes. This is an all-digital supermarket. We have really made progress as time goes by. Basically, Mr Jänecke is going great guns with his store. Eike Folkerts advises him on how to digitize  the supermar-ket, starting with down-to-earth basics: What is the status quo? Where do we start from?  On that basis we drew up with Mr Jänecke, the store manager, ... ... a plan – a big picture of what needs to be done. The main solutions we have  since installed include wireless LAN to offer the customers a free WiFi service. The second take from the bag of tricks that is digitization  is customer flow analysis. T-Systems set it up to illustrate ... ... how customers make their way around the store. In certain areas we can see cold zones – zones with a low  customer frequency – and we can work on them with a high level of precision. An even smarter idea is to direct customers  to the right places – ideally of their own volition: We are providing navigation within the store, which at over  4,000 square meters can be relatively confusing if you don’t know ... ... your way around, and we are trying to digitize it so  that customers can use the navigation on their smartphones. The NAVVIS system creates from laser measurements and thousands of  high-resolution panoramic views a digital map that is ... ... the basis of the indoor navigation. NAVVIS is a part of  the Telekom Technischer Service Scan&Service package. The idea behind it is that we digitize the store and on that  basis provide the customer with a kind of indoor navigation. And T-Systems relies on smartphones in another context. Joachim von Beesten sees authorization-based access  by electronic key as making work much easier for employees. Time is no longer wasted searching for keys. We are digitizing both access management and identity. The system is child’s play: log into the WiFi outside the door,  launch the app and tap on the display to open the door. It just makes life easier. Think of yourself. How often do you  forget your cellphone? You are likelier to leave a key at home. Many people are accustomed to using smartphones in their  private lives, which is why using a work smartphone ... ... for work purposes is no longer a serious problem at all. Whoever has previously been responsible for issuing, collecting and checking keys simply clicks on Authorizations in the portal to add or revoke permissions. In other words, full- or part-time employees, workmen and suppliers can even  be authorized on an hourly basis. And if something is lost I can simply cancel ... ... the authorization in the portal and  don’t have to replace the entire lock system. It’s ideal for night-time deliveries too.  They used to require extra personnel, but not any longer. For the store manager the solutions implemented so far are not enough.  He has long understood the potential of digitization.  There is much more we can do. In the area of sensor technology, for example,  which we have not yet considered. The Internet of Things ... ... is one of our big strategic issues. And we and Mr Jänecke are naturally  looking into how sensor technology can help him – on the shelves, for instance. The idea is to “connect” a shelf so that the retailer knows exactly  how much stock is left on it. That indicates which ... ... products are in demand, which need to be refilled  and which are frequently put back on the shelf. Digitization is changing the retail business fundamentally. Getting the transfer right – between what the customer  expects today and what worked successfully yesterday – ... ... is for many, I believe, a major challenge. Retailers don’t need to be apprehensive about opting for  digitization. We help them at every step on the journey. And the transformation of the Marktkauf here  in Adendorf shows just how easy digitization can be. 