 Hello from my side, my name is Prouria Bigvand I'm with AUCOTEC since 2012, before that my background is process engineering. I was involved in the plan design and plant engineering of different offshore and onshore plants, so I'm coming from the process engineering and plant design industry background and I started as a product design application consultant and it's about two years that I am working in the product management and since last year as the director of product management. So this is the vision that we had 10 more than 10 years ago the vision was that there should be a platform that contains the complete plan tendering data model and all the disciplines which are involved should work in parallel together there should not be any boundary between them there should not be any import or export and they have to work in parallel to each other. There is no arrow, there is no start or end. This was the vision from the beginning and we called it cooperation plant engineering platform. This is the status that we have today. More than 11,000 active and join based licenses are active in the customer side and they are used mostly in the basic process engineering part in the instrumentation and process automation detailed engineering and electrical engineering. So this is the current status and this is proven by all our customers that this is the technology of next decade. This is the technology of next 10 to 20 years and it is valid for modern plant engineering. We took 12 steps forward in last two years to go further to go towards the modern plant engineering and I will explain this to other steps forward. So the first step is that we created more than 40 new features targeting conceptual designers and process engineers. I will not explain them in detail this is not interesting for you, but we are creating all the state-of-the-art features and functionalities that conceptual designers in the feed and process engineers in the process engineering design need to design the plant. So they will have all the tools that they need to complete the plant and during the data model in their own disciplines. This is what we are going to release in EB 2018 and by this we are covering the complete disciplines that are involved in the core engineering of the plant engineering. So this would be the first structured unified plant data model for complete core engineering of plant design or plant engineering. Probably heard this plant digital twin term a lot during the exhibition and what we understand from plant digital twin is a little bit different from other involved companies in the in the topic we think that plant digital twin what is discussed at the moment by a lot of companies is actually plant digital body so you have a plant it's a real physical plant and then you want to have a digital model of that chance you cannot call it digital twin because this is just a body of that plant you have it in 2D you have it in 3D. This is these are all the body of that plant that plant if it should be a digital twin it should have a digital soul and this is what we are focusing on in the next release of Engineering Base, so if you combine the body and soul together then you will end up with a plant digital twin we've before that you don't have it you just have 2D representations maybe 1D representations and maybe 3D representations so it's just a body and the plant is the soul is one of the focuses that we are going to have. So, for that we created the scenarios and cases and of course operation modes inside the plant. We called it shadow of plant data model. So we went one step after the plant data model. We said you have the complete data model but now you need the shadows of that for different operation modes for startup, for shut down and for different scenarios. For high quality, low engineering consumption, for different scenarios that you can design in your plant engineering. Therefore, we have the the complete management of scenarios and operation modes in the plant engineering. You have to remember that this is valid for the complete plant engineering, means conceptual design, process design, instrumentation, electrical, maintenance and so on. This was step two. Step 3. We created Cause & Effect Management which is valid again for the complete plant engineering. We have some Cause & Effect CAE tools in the market at the moment but they are focused on automation. What we did is we created this Cause & Effect topic for the complete plant engineering. This means that in the process engineering you can say if I open a valve this is the effect in the automation, you can say signal A to signal B. So it has multiple levels but integrated in one platform in one data model Step four is Rule-Based Plant Engineering. At the moment we have rule-based in P&ID, and rule-based design in different disciplines. We combined everything together in one data base, in one date model and then you have the complete plant engineering rule-based. This means that these rules can be discipline independent, can be a rule between the process engineers and logic diagrams. So there can be a complete integration or communication between the rules, between different disciplines. This is step four. Step five is automatic tracking of the history for the plant digital model. This means that at any point of time as an owner creator or as an EPC, you can go back to the data model and ask the data model what was my status in last April. What was the status of my plant in last June. So As-Is is something normal or also called as built and we created As-Was-Status. So the engineers or managers can see what was the As-Was-Status of my plant during some time. And of course, everybody can track on each object all the details of the object and history of the object. So this was Step five. Step six is that for the plant engineering, this is not possible for the engineers to search everything using a traditional search. We added above Engineering Base artificial intelligence and a google like search, that easily with a normal speaking language, you can search, then the system will show you the most relevant and related results. Exactly like google. So you go to a website. This is a screenshot of the website. And then you can search in your normal language. And then it will show you all the relevant results from the search. The most important part here is that, and that’s the involvement of artificial intelligence, is that, we can search solutions. So it’s not that I want to search for a valve. I want to search for a solution, for example a distillation column that gives me the distillation of 95% and associations together. And artificial intelligence will find that solution for you a combined different scenarios and different objects and associations and will give you how much is relevant to your request. And for the next time when you search something and accept it or take it will learn what is your direction of search. So that’s the machine learning part. And we think that this is absolutely necessary if you want to increase the speed of design especially in the conceptual design, especially in the concept phase that you are looking for that you are looking for the solutions you are not looking for a template or a the solutions. You’re not looking for a template or a typical. This is very important for us to know and to have it in the Engineering Base. This was step six and step seven basically is DCS-Portal. We said that when you have the plant engineering for that plant data model completely in one data base it should not make a difference that if you are an EPC. completely in one data base it should not make a difference that if you are an EPC.    0:08:09.360,0:08:13.220 Today you want to work with ABB, in another project you want to work with Siemens,l so you should be able to send this data to different DCS-Tools. And therefore we created a DCS-Portal, that you can easily configure and send the same data in the plant engineering or plant data model directly to different disciplines, to different DCS-Tools with different configurations. So this was step seven. Step eight, we created a Project Execution Management. We created a functionality that owner creators and EPC’s can seamlessly communicate together. Based on the data, based on the documents. So for example here you have the As-Built Project, you have the Parallel Project A and then when you have Parallel Project C, there is a data coming from As-Built and also data coming from Project A. So all of the EPC’s even together can communicate the data and can see the current status of the project. And this is again in the direction of As-Built, As-Is and As-Was. So Execution Management for seamless multilevel data communication between owner operators and EPC’s. Next step is the Standard Plant Maintenance App. We are releasing a Maintenance App which is covering all the normal activities of a maintenance person that can go to the plant, can scan the QR-Code, can see the tasks the engineering base that are the maintenance tasks normal or eruptions or sudden tasks and he can access to the complete plant data model in his tablet without any need of going to the computer or printing something. So this is the maintenance app that we are creating and it’s going to be released with EB 2018. Step ten is virtual reality and 3D. Step ten is virtual reality and 3D. We already have a lot of 3D integrations, the standard 3D integrations. We expanded that to new 3D-tools. And of course, we added the virtual reality. We are going to show in ACHEMA that you can navigate in the plant with virtual reality and can click on any device and then you can see the complete documentation of the device, form different disciplines, from P&ID, form electrical, instrumentation and so on. And even you can navigate from the 2D to a new device and then you will be landed on the virtual reality in a different device. So in principal you can navigate between Virtual Reality and 2D-documentation easily with navigation under 2D or under 3D. Than you can see all the data in the virtual reality. Step eleven is a cooperation that we are doing with our partner IPRO. And we started a campaign. We started a campaign to migrate the legacy data of the owner operators into a structured plant data model. And so far we have a very good reference together with OLIN we made the project. It´s a very big project. We successfully migrated a lot of P&ID’s and other diagrams into Engineering Base and this is going to be continued with other owner operators and futures owner operators that will be used Engineering Base. But basically, the campaign is focused is focused on migrating the legacy data from whatever system that they have and structured in the plant data model. And the last step that we took to create the products that are fitting exactly to the disciplines of plant engineering. So there would not be any options or variants that you have to select when you want to use it. There are clear products directly targeting to the disciplines and then the customers can buy the products, which fit exactly to the disciplines and they don’t need any extra option or radiance. When they buy a product, everything that they need for that discipline and this is a new product portfolio that we are going to release in 2018. Thank you. 