 Hello, I am David Gagne  from Siemens PLM Software. Today, I will introduce you to the main capabilities  of Simcenter Amesim 17. In 10 years, hybrid and electric vehicles  will represent about half of the fleet. That’s why, we have put major development effort  to support electrification. For instance, you can now  automatically import characteristics from the electric motor design software  Simcenter SPEED and assess  electric powertrain  performance early in the  development  cycle. Moreover, you can link the battery cooling system  with the air conditioning system to safeguard proper battery operating conditions. On top of that, for electric and hybrid vehicle design, Simcenter Amesim 17 comes with ready-to-use templates to assess consumption, range, cooling and drivability. In the field of controls engineering, we offer new modeling capabilities  to support controls design and validation. For instance, the signal bus feature has been reworked to optimize CPU performance and user experience. Additionally, the release comes with  real-time compatible components for automotive cooling system design as well as for hydraulic and pneumatic component modeling. For conventional vehicles, a broad set  of new capabilities will help to tackle critical challenges such as  Real Driving Emissions or WLTC standards. Among them, the exhaust calibration tool now allows accelerated test data import, batch processing and automated optimization  of model calibration. In support of the aerospace and defense industry, we provide unique virtual integrated aircraft capabilities to frontload system integration, electrify propulsion systems and streamline jet engine design. The latest release enables rapid modeling  of compressors and turbines with variable geometry as well as assessing mixture composition corrections and degradation performance. Since fuel represents a large portion  of the aircraft weight, it is critical to understand its impact  on handling qualities. Simcenter Amesim now enables you to generate  fuel tank maps from CAD geometry and couple the fuel system with flight dynamics. Seamless process integration  within the Simcenter portfolio is also critical for improving modeling accuracy. A tight link with Simcenter STAR-CCM+ allows  capturing internal 3D flows in the car cabin to rapidly optimize thermal comfort. For autonomous vehicle validation, the integration with Simcenter Prescan enables  to accurately model ego vehicle’s behavior. Finally, Simcenter Amesim is now available  as a service on the cloud to help cope with system simulation usage peaks. In addition, Simcenter Webapp Server provides  a web-based access of tailored Simcenter Amesim models  to your technical sales team. I’ve only touched some of the main new capabilities in this video. Please discover them all  on the Simcenter Community site. Thanks for watching. 