 Manufacturing machines can be a complex and costly process. Assembling the first prototype from parts that haven't been developed or tested together will often cause problems, and getting everything to function properly may require significant amounts of materials and effort. Nobody wants to be known as the manufacturer of poor and unreliable machinery So wouldn't it be great, if you could build your first prototype secure in the knowledge that it already has hours of thorough testing behind it? Well, then, may we introduce you to Mevea? Mevea combines all plans for your machine into a single virtual model called digital twin. This includes all the components necessary to build your machine such as the interface to the real control system. The digital twin that is created, is a virtual, physics-based representation of your machine, capable of simulating its behavior and use in real-time. The Mevea software simulates real-life physics, so the machine can be tested in different environments and on the actual tasks that it's designed for. You will be able to detect potential problems before anything is even built. The digital twin can be inspected and modified when necessary, and stakeholders can also get involved in the development process at an earlier stage. The rapid development iterations that the digital twin enables will result in fewer prototypes, reduced costs and faster lead times. Moreover, Mevea's solutions allow operators to use the simulation for training, which means they will be qualified to use the machine before it even exists. The digital twin lives and evolves throughout the life cycle of the product. Once connected, the digital twin can analyze the machines use and behavior in the field and provide vital feedback This data can also be used to develop the product further. With Mevea's Digital twin software you can develop even the most intelligent and complex machines with ease and change the way you engineer and operate your products. Read more about Mevea digital twin on our website. 