 ? Ominous Film Noir Music? Private Eye: I remember it  like it was yesterday and it only happened  this morning. ? Epic Noir Intro Music ? ? Ominous Music ? ? Phone Notifications ? ? knocking ? Femme Fatale: Private Ilse,  I need your help! I am being followed by a sadistic shadowy presence wherever I go. Private Eye: this wasn’t the first time I’d been asked about footprints, shadows and otherwise. Lately, it’s all anybody talks about. Femme Fatale: Say something! Anything! Are you having a  voice over right now? I don’t know where to go. I don’t know what to do. Employers won’t look at me. Friends won’t talk to me. Oh, I’m just so afraid. Private Eye: Here’s a question kid, ever Google yourself? Femme Fatale: Not recently. Private Eye: Listen we leave digital traces behind. They’re all stored as cookies. Femme Fatale: I used to love cookies. Private Eye: You’re living  an online life kid. Everything you do:  Facebook posts, Twitter, Instagram, Texts, Phone Calls. It’s all there. It’s all traceable. It goes from here,  to here, to there, and everything follows you. Even when you online shop. Femme Fatale: (GASP) In Kazakhstan. Even Winnipeg! It’s awfully cold in Winnipeg. Femme Fatale: That can’t be true! The internet isn’t a real place? Private Eye: You’re fooling yourself Slim. Everywhere you roam, everything you post, everything you type, everything you look at, it’s all being followed. Femme Fatale: I've got to delete  my browser history immediately! Private Eye: Listen cookie. It’s too late for that. That ship has sailed. It’s how to the harbor. It’s sunk. Femme Fatale: I’ve done so many things. I’ve said so many things. Private Eye: let’s take a look. bet I can find all about you in a second. Femme Fatale: It’s never  occurred to me that anything I put online will  ever come back to me like this. Private Eye: Let’s see  where you’ve been kid. Discriminatory remarks? Cyberbullying? Drunken photos? References to illicit drugs? Armchair activism? Promoting stereotypes? And hey, are you holding a gun in this photo? Shaming mothers on Mom Swap sites? ooooh you’re brave behind that keyboard kid. And all this is as easy  as a quick scroll or a screen shot away. Femme Fatale: I didn’t think  this would have all these repercussions over some unintentional acts! I... what I was saying was all wrong. How do I fix this? Private Eye: Listen. Not even Beyoncé can  control the internet. You’ve got to change your behavior and you gotta  clean up your act. Femme Fatale:  Where do I even begin? How do I reclaim my  social consciousness and social media savvy? What do I do? How do I start all over? Private Eye: You don’t behave  like that in “real life,” so why would you behave  like that on the internet? You have to show empathy. You have to avoid assumptions. And most of all You have to think  before you post. 