 Hello guys! Welcome to Ctclockwises Channel! In this episode I will tell you 4 steps to make your traditional art looks like digital by TOUCH TWIN MARKERS / COPIC At the end of 4 steps I will explain why I love this youtuber that I drew, but she is Thai so I assume that it might not be as interesting hahha So I will leave only the subtitles for the important 4 steps! :) (If you want the translation, tell me so!) 1. The first step is to have a great paper for COPIC/TOUCH TWIN I normally simply use normal inkjet paper, the great thickness is at least 190 grams This is not that expensive as well! :) 2. Second is to draw using pencil clean and neat as much as possible as we will color copic on them later Also, since digital arts normally have sharp line, you can use pigment pen to do lineart for eyes and skin border This is different from the technique I told you before in the youtube card above which I use colored pencil for soft edge I will not use pigment pen for the hair and shirt This is because I want the hair to look soft and the shirt to not be as prominent as the face 3. I will color the picture using 'light' then 'dark' techniques If you want to know how I do it in details, you can watch the tutorial in the youtube card above Also, if you have both TOUCH TWIN marker and COPIC, I would recommend you to use COPIC as light color and TOUCH TWIN for dark and saturated color The picture will then look really bright and shine! AGAIN! You can see the different between TOUCH TWIN and COPIC on the youtube card above! xD Lastly, I will use colorful pigment pen according to the color of the area to do line art for the hair and the shirt. This will make the picture looks sharper and cleaner Then I will use dark colored pencil to make the darker area even darker. To me, it is easier to make the picture looks darker using colored pencils than alcohol marker (and you can erase them if needed as well) And that's it for the 4 steps! The rest will be me telling my love story with this youtuber that I drew haahahah xD Hope you gain some insights from it! :) and you can watch the rest of the speed paint for your benefit &lt;3 Thank you so much for watching and I will catch you next time byee~ 