 Hello everyone, Maria Wilson here, global leader for data-driven advantage or DDA in Howden. Welcome to Howden's first ever vlog and also my first attempt at the blogging world please bear with me while I figure the best way to move this forward. What is this all about? Well we in Howden are embarking on a truly exciting journey for digital transformation. We're gearing up for an amazing ride ahead of us and I'm truly honored to lead this journey and I want to share our updates with you. So please feel free to use the comments section to give any feedback or ask any questions on any of our digital solutions or simply just our wider DDA strategy. Introduction done I want to use my time with you today to talk about the foundational technology block and our solution for performance optimization of rotating equipment and that is Uptime. This foundational block is our digital twin model. Now for those of you who work in the IOT space or simply follow the digitalization wave a digital twin is defined in various ways and in fact industry and academia don't really seem to agree on how to best define the concept. In Howden we came up with a digital twin model simply trying to satisfy two essential kpi's one of them is about the value that this model can enable to our customers operation and the other one is about the value data can enable us. I talked about this very topic last month during Liveworx for those of you who don't know Liveworx is the world's largest trade show in IOT and digital transformation. During the executive digital symposium I was asked a few questions about how the Howden digital twin models are enabling our digital transformation. The Howden digital twin model uses two data sets the first data set is something that actually reflects our core experience and that is of being an OEM for 160 years we're using all the design data that we have in our data books, design manuals, drawings, CAD models, selection software to create what we call a theoretical performance map and then we have a second data set that feeds into this digital twin model and this is what we call an operational data set and it's being fed through the model directly by the sensors are deployed around the equipment and field. So the digital twin model and Uptime essentially runs an analysis between the operational data set and the theoretical data set and by identifying that difference between the two curves of performance is how we enable Uptime to deliver the functionality of performance optimization for rotating equipment. This is it for our first vlog thanks very much for your time please use the comments section below to post any feedback you have any questions you might have we'll keep this as regular as possible and let us know your suggestions for content. Thanks and see you next time. you 