 Sound quality is an important aspect of product design. We care about it in our cars, when we travel in an airplane, or when using everyday objects such as a hairdryer. We always expect acoustical comfort in our lives. You know, some say that sound quality engineering is only a tool for experts. But we actually believe it is for everyone. Instead of creating a dedicated novice tool with limited functionality and a specialized user interface, we have decided to create an easy-to-use and efficient application with a short learning curve, where the user is guided from A to Z. Our sound quality engineering solution includes an extensive library of methods applying the psychoacoustic theory, carefully selected default settings for best out-of-the-box results, and a high quality calibrated replay with interactive filtering for immediate acoustic validation. For sound quality analysis we offer a wide range of metrics. You can start with classical spectrum analysis to understand how the energy of your sound is distributed among the frequency range. Use level metrics to understand how measured sound levels correspond to human perception-based loudness. Analyze high frequency content using sharpness to predict a listeners annoyance. Detect and quantify tones in sounds with broadband noise of any level, very important in times of electrification. Determine how comfortable it would be to speak in a room or vehicle interior cabin, in the presence of analyzed sound. Or finally, analyze the modulation of sounds, which can sometimes be very annoying and unpleasant, but on other occasions definitely expected. For example, when designing a sporty variant of a muffler. Our process flow-based approach to analysis gives much more flexibility. It allows you to select different analyses depending on the type of measured quantity, or even per each specific channel. On top of it, you can build your own library of procedures that can be documented and shared internally or externally. With Process Designer you can automate repetitive tasks or work interactively when needed. Simcenter Testlab Sound Quality Engineering joins the product family of Acoustic Testing. It complements our solution for high quality binaural measurements and subjective evaluation with jury testing, to shape the sound of your product the way you want it. Thank you for watching and please visit our website for more detailed information. 