BusinessArista Networks pioneered software-driven, cognitive cloud networking for large-scale datacenter and campus environments. Our cloud networking solutions consist of our Extensible Operating System ("EOS"), a set of network applications and our Ethernet switching and routing platforms. Our cloud networking solutions deliver industry-leading performance, scalability, availability, programmability, automation and visibility. At the core of our cloud networking platform is EOS, which was purpose-built to be fully programmable, highly modular and reliable. The programmability of EOS has allowed us to create a set of software applications that address the requirements of cloud networking, including workflow automation, network visibility and analytics, and has also allowed us to rapidly integrate with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services.  Since we began shipping our products, we have grown rapidly, and, according to market research, we have achieved the second largest market share in data center Ethernet switch ports. We have been profitable and cash flow positive for each year since 2010.EOS supports leading cloud and virtualization solutions, including VMware NSX, Microsoft System Center, OpenStack and other cloud management frameworks. We have worked with industry leaders to define new open protocols for the virtualized data center. We co-authored the VXLAN protocol specification with VMware and were the first to demonstrate VXLAN integration and have now expanded VXLAN routing and integration.We use standard Linux as our underlying operating system, providing customers with access to all Linux operating system facilities. This allows customers to extend our EOS software with off-the-shelf Linux applications and a growing number of open source management tools.EOS has a highly modular architecture, which allows us to prevent network outages in deployments of our cloud networking solutions. This architecture also allows us to rapidly develop new features and protocols without compromising the quality of the existing code base. Because all of our platform products are powered by the same binary image of EOS, we are able to deliver these new innovations to our entire installed base with minimal disruption.In 2015, we introduced CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation delivering a turnkey solution for cloud networking.  We believe CloudVision’s abstraction of the physical network to this broader, network-wide perspective allows for a more efficient approach for several operational use-cases related to automation, visibility, management, security and 3rd party controller integration.In 2018, we announced a new network architecture designed to redefine the campus network into a cognitive single-tier SplineTM driven by a single image operating system that extends across the campus and the data center. Leveraging EOS® and CloudVision®, our Cognitive Cloud Networking approach brings operational consistency and modern cloud principles to the enterprise campus in the face of a proliferation of Internet of Things ("IOT") related users, behaviors and complexities.  As part of the enterprise campus solution, we acquired Mojo Networks, Inc. (“Mojo”), inventor of Cognitive WiFiTM and a leader in cloud-managed wireless networking. We also acquired Metamako Holding PTY LTD. (“Metamako”), a leader in low-latency, FPGA-enabled network solutions.In 2019, we completed the introduction of ten new 400G platforms. In the Leaf/Spine High Network Radix category, we offer two new fixed 32 port 400G switches, and a 128 port 100G/32 port 400G modular switch.  For the Universal Leaf and Spine category of switching, we introduced our R3 series 100G and 400G products supporting up to 2.5M routes on our 7280R3 series fixed and 7500R3 series modular platforms. We also introduced a new modular family called the 7800R3, a high density 100G and 400G platform supporting up to 460 Tbps of system throughput.  In addition, we launched the 720XP Series of fixed Power over Ethernet (PoE) leaf switches with mGig and 60W PoE, enabling us to offer a complete end to end solution for cognitive campus ethernet, as well as the introduction of our new WiFi-6 wireless APs.We sell our products through both our direct sales force and our channel partners. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, 1Table of Contentsgovernment agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. Our customers include six of the largest cloud services providers based on annual revenue.Industry BackgroundCloud computing is fundamentally changing the way IT infrastructure is built and how applications are delivered. In cloud computing, applications are distributed across thousands of servers. These servers are connected with high-speed network switches that, together, form a pool of resources that allows applications to be rapidly deployed and cost-effectively updated. Cloud computing enables ubiquitous and on-demand network access to these applications from internet-connected devices including personal computers, tablets and smartphones.Nearly all consumer applications today are delivered as cloud services. Enterprise applications are rapidly moving to the cloud as well, since cloud services are easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. Internet leaders like Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers in order to meet the growing demands of their users, including business customers. Enterprises and service providers around the world are adopting cloud computing technologies in order to achieve similar performance improvements and cost reductions.The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can be orders of magnitude higher than typical legacy data center networks. Therefore, the networks in such cloud environments must be architected and built in a new way. We refer to these next-generation data center networks as cloud networks. Cloud networks must deliver high capacity, high availability and predictable performance and must be programmable to allow integration with third-party applications for network, management, automation, orchestration and network services.Limitations of Traditional Data Center NetworksIn our view, cloud networks and legacy networks are fundamentally different. In a traditional data center, specific applications are installed on a small number of servers, and most network traffic is server-to-client, or “north-south” traffic, which results in perhaps a few terabits/second of aggregate network bandwidth. In the cloud, most network traffic is server-to-server, or “east-west” traffic. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can exceed 1 Petabit/second, orders of magnitude higher than that of typical legacy data center networks.The much larger scale of cloud networks requires much higher network availability since network outages in the cloud are very expensive in terms of customer impact. Traditional network switches have evolved, and the features and capabilities of their operating system have expanded over many years without addressing the structural deficiencies of their underlying software architectures, making it difficult to achieve high network switch reliability.Some networking vendors have built products that use proprietary protocols to address the scaling needs of next-generation data centers. However, proprietary protocols are generally not acceptable to internet companies or cloud service providers because they create vendor lock-in.Legacy networks are not programmable and, as a result, are extremely difficult to integrate with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration and network services. This lack of integration forces customers to continue to rely on time consuming, error-prone manual processes that may be cost-prohibitive.Limitations of Traditional Enterprise Campus NetworksTraditional enterprise campus networks suffer from complex bottlenecks brought on by the myriad of platforms, operating systems, proprietary features and network management tools. Coupled with the explosive growth of IoT and endpoints as well as the requirement for workloads, users and devices to be connected anywhere, the operational costs of managing these complexities become prohibitive.Our Cloud Networking SolutionsWe are a leading supplier of cloud networking solutions that use software innovations to address the needs of large-scale internet companies, cloud service providers and next-generation enterprise data centers and campuses. Our cloud networking platform was purpose-built to address the functional and performance requirements for 2Table of Contentscloud networks. We deliver our solutions via our industry-leading 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/400 Gigabit Ethernet switches and routers optimized for next-generation data center networks.Our cloud networking solutions consist of EOS, a set of networking applications and our Gigabit Ethernet platforms. At the core of our cloud networking platform is EOS, which was architected to be fully programmable and highly modular.The programmability of EOS has allowed us to create a set of software applications and application programming interfaces ("APIs"), that address the requirements of cloud networking, including workflow automation, network visibility and analytics, and has further allowed us to integrate rapidly with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services.The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows:Capacity, Performance and ScalabilityOur cloud networking platform enables data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We have used active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks.High AvailabilityOur highly modular EOS software architecture was designed to be fault-isolating and self-healing in order to deliver higher stability compared to legacy network operating systems. In addition, our customers can non-disruptively upgrade our switches running in the network using our Smart System Upgrade, or SSU, application.Open and ProgrammableOur EOS software was purpose-built to offer programmable interfaces throughout all levels of our software. This has allowed us to integrate our cloud networking platform with a wide range of leading third-party applications. For example, we support VMware NSX, OpenConfig/YANG and Microsoft System Center for orchestration and fast provisioning, enabling true workload mobility and automatic provisioning of physical switches. We enable customers, through APIs, to write their own scripts to customize and optimize their networks. Workflow AutomationOur EOS software enables enterprises to provision networking resources in minutes with no manual intervention through our Zero Touch Provisioning. We also natively support Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third-party management tools. CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation delivers a turnkey solution for cloud networking. CloudVision extends the same EOS architectural approach across the network for state, topology, monitoring and visibility. This enables enterprises to move to cloud-class automation without needing significant internal development. Finally, EOS embraces the DevOps model, which is a software development method that combines development and operations, to provision and monitor servers, storage and network resources in a unified fashion.Network VisibilityOur EOS software provides a set of tools and applications that proactively monitor, detect and notify network managers when network issues arise, delivering real-time data to third-party management applications including Corvil, ExtraHop, Riverbed and Splunk to provide detailed application visibility. Our telemetry applications include VM Tracer, which provides visibility down to the virtual machine level, Path Tracer, which detects errors in provisioned network paths, MapReduce Tracer, which monitors and optimizes the performance of Hadoop workloads, Flow Tracker which can visualize all connected endpoints including iPhones, iPads and IOT devices, and Health Tracer, which monitors infrastructure resiliency. Our network visibility applications provide real-time insight into the status of the network. They include LANZ, which monitors latency, and DANZ 2017, a set of features previously only available in add-on network visibility devices, which provides advanced traffic monitoring with flow analysis and timestamps, plus the ability to perform tap aggregation for reporting and analysis.3Table of ContentsSecurity Macro-Segmentation Services (MSS™) is one of the services enabled via CloudVision. Since CloudVision maintains a network-wide database of all state within the network, as well as direct integration with hypervisor resources like VMware vSphere and NSX.  It is aware of every workload that is within the network and it learns in real time about new devices or workloads that are added or removed from the network, or moved across ports or servers.  Macro-segmentation extends the concept of fine-grained inter-hypervisor security to cloud networks by enabling dynamic security and services for physical to virtual workloads. Macro-segmentation security is a complement to fine-grained security delivered via micro-segmentation that is already implemented in the virtual switch of the physical host on which a VM is running.Lower Total Cost of OwnershipOur cloud networking platform offers architectural and system advantages that provide our customers with cost-effective and highly available cloud networking solutions. Our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with industry-leading applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our visibility tools provide high levels of visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. As a result, fewer network engineers are needed to operate large networks.Enterprise Campus NetworksArista CloudVision, built on the Cognitive Management Plane (CMP) engine, is a platform for turnkey orchestration, provisioning and telemetry. Born initially in the data center era, CloudVision now extends the same common operational model to the campus providing unified wired and wireless management as well as on-premise and cloud hosted data center management.Today’s wired and wireless campus networks must cope with ever-increasing endpoint devices necessitating the understanding of endpoint behavior. CloudVision’s latest feature Device Analyzer provides inventory and deep flow analysis of all connected devices. Campus administrators can access device type, connectivity method, location and communication patterns. This visibility enables an administrator to identify unauthorized traffic and compromised endpoints. Since CloudVision spans the data center and the campus, customers can leverage a single platform for end-to-end troubleshooting.Our Market OpportunityWe compete primarily in the data center switching market for 10 Gigabit Ethernet and above, excluding blade switches. We more recently began to compete in the enterprise campus market for 1 Gigabit Ethernet switching and above and in the cloud-managed wireless networking market.We believe that cloud computing represents a fundamental shift from traditional legacy network architectures. As organizations of all sizes have moved workloads to the cloud, spending on cloud and next-generation data centers has increased rapidly, while traditional legacy IT spending has grown more slowly. Our CustomersAs of December 31, 2019, we had delivered our cloud networking solutions to over 6,000 end customers worldwide in approximately 94 countries. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. For the year ended December 31, 2019, purchases by Microsoft and Facebook each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. In addition, for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, Microsoft accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Purchases by both of these customers are primarily fulfilled through our channel partners.Our Competitive StrengthsWe believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in cloud networking and next-generation data center Ethernet products:4Table of Contents•Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform. We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale internet companies, cloud service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies and media and entertainment companies, including virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures.•Broad and Differentiated Portfolio. Using multiple silicon architectures, we deliver switches and routers with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements.•Single Binary Image Software. The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a “forklift upgrade” (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure).•Rapid Development of New Features and Applications. Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the structural integrity and quality of our network operating system. We believe our ability to deliver new features and capabilities more quickly than legacy switch/router operators, provides us with a strategic advantage given that the requirements in cloud and next-generation data center networking continue to evolve rapidly.•Deep Understanding of Customer Requirements. We have developed close working relationships with many of our largest customers that provide us with insights about their needs and future requirements. This has allowed us to develop and deliver products to market that meet customer demands and expectations as well as to rapidly grow sales to existing customers.•Strong Management and Engineering Team with Significant Data Center Networking Expertise. Our management and engineering team consists of networking veterans with extensive data center networking expertise. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jayshree Ullal, with 30+ years of networking expertise from silicon to systems companies.  Andy Bechtolsheim, our Founder and Chief Development Officer, was previously a founder and chief system architect at Sun Microsystems.  Kenneth Duda, our Founder and Chief Technology Officer, led the software development effort of EOS.•Significant Technology Lead. We believe that our networking technology represents a fundamental advance in networking software. Our EOS software is state-driven and the result of more than 1,000 man-years of research and development investment over a ten-year period with 10+ million lines of code as a key cloud networking software stack.Our Products and TechnologyWe offer one of the broadest product lines of datacenter and campus 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/400 Gigabit Ethernet switches and routers in the industry, comprising our 720XP, 7010/7020R Series, 7050X Series, 7060X Series, 7130 Series, 7160 Series, 7150 Series, 7170 Series, 7250X Series, 7280R Series Universal Leaf products, 7300X Series Spline products, and our 7500R/7800R Series Universal Spine products.We deliver routing and switching platforms with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency. We have also innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. An overview of our switching/routing portfolio is shown in the figure below.5Table of ContentsOur Extensible Operating SystemThe core of our cloud networking platform is our EOS which runs on top of standard Linux and offers programmability at all layers of the stack. All of our Ethernet platforms run our EOS software.EOS is based on a new and innovative architecture that is highly modular and consists of more than 100 separate processes that we call agents, each one handling specific protocol processing, device driver or system management functions. Each agent runs in user space as a separate Linux process and is completely protected and isolated from all other agents.We are constantly investing in our core infrastructure to provide the capabilities required for building modern cloud networks and enhancing scalability. New requirements for use in cloud and service provider networks and hybrid cloud deployments in enterprises require on-going upgrades and extensions to our state oriented architecture.EOS AttributesThe modular and programmable architecture of EOS enables us to offer a set of attributes, capabilities and features that are essential for cloud networking and next-generation data centers.High AvailabilityEOS is self-healing in the sense that individual processes can be restarted without impacting application traffic. This architectural design principle supports self-healing resiliency in our software, easier software maintenance and module independence, higher software quality overall, and faster time-to-market for new features that customers require.Programmable at All LayersEOS is programmable at all layers from the Linux kernel to switch configuration, provisioning, automation and detailed monitoring of the network.  Public cloud providers have leveraged tools such as the EOS Software Development Kit (“SDK”) and eAPI to implement fully customized infrastructure automation solutions.6Table of ContentsWorkflow VisibilityThrough EOS, we have developed a wide range of applications available to our customers for purchase as additional licenses that enable enhanced network monitoring and visibility without requiring additional external monitoring devices.  This includes (i) DataANalyZer (DANZ), which provides access to raw network data for analysis by security, troubleshooting and performance management tools, (ii) Latency/loss ANalyZer (LANZ), which provides access to internal network performance loads and packet loss and latency occurring at the microsecond level, (iii) Network Telemetry, which provides network state information including correlations with dynamic state of the systems operating on the network such as Hypervisors, distributed job controls and (iv) Network Tracers, which provide active integration and diagnostics for various workload conditions dependent upon network performance.Network AutomationEOS supports Puppet, Chef and Ansible, which enables automatic network configuration in the same manner as servers and storage. In addition, EOS provides tools that greatly reduce network operational costs.  Another major component of network automation is Cloud Vision.CloudVisionCloudVision’s abstraction of the physical network to a broader, network-wide perspective allows for a more efficient approach for several operational use-cases, including the following highlights:•Centralized representation of distributed network state, allowing for a single point of integration and network-wide visibility and analytics;•Controller agnostic support for physical and virtual workload orchestration through open APIs such as OVSDB, JSON and Openstack plugins;•Turn-key automation for zero touch provisioning, configuration management and network-wide upgrades and rollback;•Compliance dashboard for security, audit and patch management;•Real-time streaming for telemetry and network analytics, a modern approach to replace legacy polling per device;•Provides visibility and troubleshooting for underlay and overlay networks; and•Enables macro-segmentation services which provides a dynamic and scalable network service to logically insert security devices into the path of traffic, regardless of whether the security device or workload is physical or virtual and with complete flexibility on placement of security devices and workloads.Leaf-Spine Network DesignsOur customers typically deploy leaf-spine network topologies consisting of leaf switches or top-of-rack switches, located in the server rack connected with uplinks to multiple load-sharing spine switches and routers that provide the backbone. Our leaf-spine network designs scale up to more than 300,000 physical servers and millions of virtual machines using Equal Cost Multiple Path, or ECMP, to load balance Layer 3 network traffic across multiple spine switches and routers. With Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation, or MLAG, we can build an active-active Layer 2 network that can connect more than 25,000 physical servers. Our leaf-spine network designs have been widely deployed and provide predictable network bandwidth and latency. A key advantage of predictable network performance is that it eliminates the need to optimize the network for specific applications, which means a single network design works equally well for all applications.Enterprise resources commonly span multiple data centers or Performance Optimized Datacenters  (“PODs”) within a data center, including the public cloud. The drive to deliver resources quickly, affordably, and reliably also drives the need for a flexible, cost-effective, scale-out design at the data center core, which we refer to as the “spine of spines” or Universal Spine. The Universal Spine is non-blocking, supports large scale ECMP, 7Table of ContentsIP routing and routing convergence.  The Universal Spine enables architects to build the network around the spine and collapse legacy networking layers into the Universal Spine.Examples of our leaf-spine and universal leaf-spine architectures are illustrated below.    Arista Multi Cloud Networking PlatformCloudEOS™ is Arista’s multi cloud and cloud native networking solution enabling a highly secure and reliable networking experience with consistent segmentation, telemetry, provisioning and troubleshooting for the entire enterprise. It can be deployed across the enterprise edge, WAN, campus, data center, on-premises Kubernetes clusters, and multiple public and private clouds. CloudEOS provides multi cloud connectivity across the entire enterprise cloud environment with high-performance virtual and container-based instances of EOS® software that simplify network operations and integrate with declarative cloud provisioning toolchains like Terraform, Ansible, and other popular CloudOps and DevOps tools.In addition, CloudEOS enables the seamless delivery of a fully autonomic software-defined infrastructure by combining the power of network automation, state streaming telemetry, and common management plane across clouds using Arista CloudVision® and Terraform. With CloudEOS and CloudVision customers can integrate their cloud network deployments with the elasticity and automation of the public cloud, private cloud and cloud native platforms.CloudEOS is designed for consumption on Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google public clouds via their marketplace and service catalogs, and it is also available as a cloud native instance for deployment in Kubernetes clusters. With CloudEOS, customers can now deploy networks across multiple public cloud providers and on-premises environments in minutes, without ever touching the network CLI.Cloud Principles Migrate Enterprise from PINs to PICsWith the Arista CloudEOS, enterprise customers can now deploy a reliable and secure multicloud experience with a common Universal Cloud Network approach across all of the places-in-the-cloud (“PICs”) as opposed to siloed Places-In-the-Network (“PINs”) of the legacy enterprise.  This enables IT organizations to harness dispersed cloud resources anywhere for better availability of services and applications across any cloud, any workload and any location.Cognitive WiFi8Table of ContentsWith the acquisition of Mojo, we now integrate the wireless edge via the CloudVision platform. The Cognitive WiFi architecture is tailored to enable an Arista access point portfolio in a controller-less wireless network. These access point (“AP”) solutions are available in disaggregated options harnessing the power of cloud, machine learning and cognitive computing to deliver great experiences to WiFi users. Our Cognitive WiFi delivers massive scalability, and a linear pay-as-you-go pricing model, providing a predictable total cost of ownership path. CloudVision WiFi is based on a similar CMP model for cognitive analytics unifying the operational experience across wired and wireless. CloudVision WiFi enhances real-time insight into the experience of WiFi clients to connect and utilize the network. Client Journey is a set of dashboards that help operators diagnose client connectivity, track availability of network services and identify the root cause of WiFi issues with live and historical telemetry data for the proactive assessment of client to application performance.Arista Cognitive Campus includes a suite of WiFi Tracer tools for wireless security, reachability and network health diagnostics. The Integrated Wireless Intrusion Protection System (“WIPS”) protects networks against rogue APs, honeypots and implements device classification to determine authorized client devices connecting to unauthorized APs. Additional WIPS scanning is accomplished via a dedicated third radio which can also perform various network performance and health diagnostics. The AP can simulate a client device-association and authentication instrumenting identity and access (AAA and DHCP/DNS) latencies, connectivity to the upstream network and voice calls to calculate MOS score and network throughput. These automated tests can be pre-scheduled without administrator intervention ensuring business ready WiFi. CloudVision WiFi applications fuses Arista access points with cloud networking spines and splines for a seamless topology view.Cognitive Cloud Networking for the Campus Our Cognitive Cloud Networking for the Campus is based on three principles:Universal Cloud Network - Offered as an alternative to brittle, proprietary solutions from legacy vendors, our Universal Cloud Network is an open, standards-based design focusing on software-driven control principles. Our collapsed Spline™ approach consolidates traditional campus core and aggregation layers into a simple single tier with high availability.Cognitive Management Plane - There is a dire void in management plane consistency and a need for data-driven analytics in the campus, as in the data center. We believe that a common model can be applied across both, saving customers operational costs. The CMP, based on Arista CloudVision, is a data-driven repository for the automated actions across network analytics.Securing The Campus - Securing the Campus spline requires a holistic approach to network segmentation, device compliance and auditing, as well as service integration with our security partners. We deliver these capabilities through EOS and CloudVision.Examples of our Cognitive Cloud Networking architectures are illustrated below.9Table of ContentsCustomer Support and ServicesWe have designed our customer support offerings to provide our customers with high levels of support. Our global team of support engineers engages directly with client IT teams and is available at all times over e-mail, by phone or through our website.We offer multiple service options that allow our customers to select the product replacement service level 