back-end  Process steps that make up the second half of the semiconductor manufacturing process, from contact through completion of the wafer prior to electrical test.   broadband  An illumination source with a wide spectral bandwidth.   critical dimension (CD)  The dimension of a specified geometry (such as the width of a patterned line or the distance between two lines) that must be within design tolerances in order to maintain semiconductor device performance consistency.   design rules  Rules that set forth the allowable dimensions of particular features used in the design and layout of integrated circuits.   die  The term for a single semiconductor chip on a wafer.   electron-beam  An illumination source comprised of a stream of electrons emitted by a single source.   epitaxial silicon (epi) A substrate technology based on growing a crystalline silicon layer on top of a silicon wafer. The added layer, where the structure and orientation are matched to those of the silicon wafer, includes dopants (impurities) to imbue the substrate with special electronic properties.   excursion  For a manufacturing step or process, a deviation from normal operating conditions that can lead to decreased performance or yield of the final product.   fab The main manufacturing facility for processing semiconductor wafers.   front-end  The processes that make up the first half of the semiconductor manufacturing process, from wafer start through final contact window processing.   in-situ  Refers to processing steps or tests that are done without moving the wafer. Latin for “in original position.”   interconnect  A highly conductive material, usually copper or aluminum, which carries electrical signals to different parts of a die.   lithography  A process in which a masked pattern is projected onto a photosensitive coating that covers a substrate.   mask shop  A manufacturer that produces the reticles used by semiconductor manufacturers.   metrology  The science of measurement to determine dimensions, quantity or capacity. In the semiconductor industry, typical measurements include critical dimension, overlay and film thickness.   microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) Micron-sized mechanical devices powered by electricity, created using processes similar to those used to manufacture IC devices.   micron  A metric unit of linear measure that equals 1/1,000,000 meter (10-6m), or 10,000 angstroms (the diameter of a human hair is approximately 75 microns).   Moore’s Law An observation made by Gordon Moore in 1965 and revised in 1975 that the number of transistors on a typical integrated circuit doubles approximately every two years.   nanometer (nm)  One billionth (10-9) of a meter.   narrowband  An illumination source with a narrow spectral bandwidth, such as a laser.    14Table of Contentspatterned  For semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies, refers to substrates that have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated on the surface.   photoresist  A radiation-sensitive material that, when properly applied to a variety of substrates and then properly exposed and developed, masks portions of the substrate with a high degree of integrity.   process control  The ability to maintain specifications of products and equipment during manufacturing operations.   reticle  A very flat glass plate that contains the patterns to be reproduced on a wafer.   silicon-on-insulator (SOI) A substrate technology comprised of a thin top silicon layer separated from the silicon substrate by a thin insulating layer of glass or silicon dioxide, used to improve performance and reduce the power consumption of IC circuits.   substrate  A wafer on which layers of various materials are added during the process of manufacturing semiconductor devices or circuits.   unpatterned  For semiconductor manufacturing and industries using similar processing technologies, refers to substrates that do not have electronic circuits (transistors, interconnects, etc.) fabricated on the surface. These can include bare silicon wafers, other bare substrates or substrates on which blanket films have been deposited.   yield management  The ability of a semiconductor manufacturer to oversee, manage and control its manufacturing processes so as to maximize the percentage of manufactured wafers or die that conform to pre-determined specifications.__________________ The definitions above are from internal sources, as well as the SEMATECH Dictionary of Semiconductor Terms. 15Table of ContentsITEM  1A.RISK FACTORSA description of factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results is provided below.Risks Associated with the MergerThere are risks and uncertainties associated with the Merger with Lam Research Corporation.On October 21, 2015, KLA-Tencor announced it had entered into the Merger Agreement with Lam Research. Consummation of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including (1) the expiration or termination of any waiting periods applicable to the consummation of the Merger under applicable antitrust and competition laws; and (2) the absence of any law or order restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Merger. Each of Lam Research’s and KLA-Tencor’s obligation to consummate the Merger is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including (1) subject to specific standards, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party; and (2) performance in all material respects by the other party of its obligations under the Merger Agreement. There is no assurance that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Further, the pendency of the Merger Agreement may have an adverse effect on our business and share price. Additionally, if the Merger is not completed, we may suffer a number of consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and stock price. There are numerous risks related to the Merger, including the following:•Various conditions to the closing of the Merger may not be satisfied or waived;•If the Merger does not close on or before October 20, 2016, subject to certain limitations, either party will have the right to terminate the Merger Agreement;•The Merger may not be consummated, which among other things may cause our share price to decline to the extent that the current price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed;•The failure to consummate the Merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community;•Required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the Merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause Lam Research to abandon the Merger;•The Merger Agreement may be terminated in circumstance that would require us to pay Lam Research a termination fee of $290.0 million;•We will have incurred significant costs in connection with the acquisition that we may be unable to recover;•Our ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate current and prospective employees may be adversely affected;•The attention of our employees and management may be diverted due to activities related to the Merger;•We may forego opportunities we might otherwise pursue absent the Merger Agreement, and may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures; and•The Merger Agreement restricts us from engaging in certain actions without Lam Research’s approval, which could prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities outside the ordinary course of business that arise prior to the closing of the Merger.In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger, and these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether the Merger is consummated.Several lawsuits have been filed against Lam Research and us challenging the Merger and an adverse ruling may prevent the Merger from being completed.Lam Research, KLA-Tencor, Merger Sub 1 and Merger Sub 2, as well as the members of the KLA-Tencor Board, have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought by KLA-Tencor stockholders. Additional lawsuits may be filed against Lam Research, KLA-Tencor, Merger Sub 1, Merger Sub 2 and the directors of one of the foregoing companies in connection with the Merger.One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no order, injunction, decree or other legal restraint or prohibition shall be in effect that prevents completion of the Merger. Consequently, if a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants’ ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. 16Table of ContentsThe Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from domestic and foreign regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on Lam Research, KLA-Tencor or the combined company or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Merger.Before the Merger may be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust and competition laws and various approvals or consents must be obtained from regulatory entities. In addition, at any time prior to the Merger, competition authorities may seek to enjoin completion of the Merger. In deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the Merger on competition within their relevant jurisdiction. The terms and conditions of any approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. KLA-Tencor and Lam Research have obtained consents or clearances from regulatory authorities in Germany, Israel, Ireland and Taiwan. The Merger Agreement may require KLA-Tencor and Lam Research to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities and, in certain circumstances, either company may refuse to close the Merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions, or that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger. In addition, we can provide no assurance that any such conditions, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Merger.On May 13, 2016, Lam Research and KLA-Tencor each received a request for additional information and documentary material (commonly referred to as a “Second Request”) from the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) in connection with the proposed transaction between the companies. The companies are working with the staff of the DOJ on the terms of a consent decree. For additional information on the risks associated with our proposed Merger with Lam Research, please review the risks beginning on page 22 of the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed by Lam Research with the SEC on January 13, 2016, which risks are incorporated by reference herein and included as Exhibit 99.1 to this annual report.Risks Associated with Our Industry Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our business to significant risks. The semiconductor equipment industry and other industries that we serve are constantly developing and changing over time. Many of the risks associated with operating in these industries are comparable to the risks faced by all technology companies, such as the uncertainty of future growth rates in the industries that we serve, pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products (which place a growing emphasis on our customers’ cost of ownership), changes in our customers’ capital spending patterns and, in general, an environment of constant change and development, including decreasing product and component dimensions; use of new materials; and increasingly complex device structures, applications and process steps. If we fail to appropriately adjust our cost structure and operations to adapt to any of these trends, or, with respect to technological advances, if we do not timely develop new technologies and products that successfully anticipate and address these changes, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.In addition, we face a number of risks specific to ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry, as the significant majority of our sales are made to semiconductor manufacturers. Some of the trends that our management monitors in operating our business include the following:•the trend of increasing cost per transistor for leading edge technology transitions below the 28 nanometer node, a reversal of the historical trend of declining cost per transistor with each new generation of technological advancement within the semiconductor industry, and the adverse impact that such reversal may have upon our business;•the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’ investment decisions; •differing market growth rates and capital requirements for different applications, such as memory, logic and foundry;•lower level of process control adoption by our memory customers compared to our foundry and logic customers;•our customers’ reuse of existing and installed products, which may decrease their need to purchase new products or solutions at more advanced technology nodes;•the emergence of disruptive technologies that change the prevailing semiconductor manufacturing processes (or the economics associated with semiconductor manufacturing) and, as a result, also impact the inspection and metrology requirements associated with such processes;  17Table of Contents•the higher design costs for the most advanced integrated circuits, which could economically constrain leading-edge manufacturing technology customers to focus their resources on only the large, technologically advanced products and applications;•the possible introduction of integrated products by our larger competitors that offer inspection and metrology functionality in addition to managing other semiconductor manufacturing processes;•changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes that are extremely costly for our customers to implement and, accordingly, our customers could reduce their available budgets for process control equipment by reducing inspection and metrology sampling rates for certain technologies;•the bifurcation of the semiconductor manufacturing industry into (a) leading edge manufacturers driving continued research and development into next-generation products and technologies and (b) other manufacturers that are content with existing (including previous generation) products and technologies;•the ever escalating cost of next-generation product development, which may result in joint development programs between us and our customers or government entities to help fund such programs that could restrict our control of, ownership of and profitability from the products and technologies developed through those programs;•the potential industry transition from 300mm to 450mm wafers; and•the entry by some semiconductor manufacturers into collaboration or sharing arrangements for capacity, cost or risk with other manufacturers, as well as increased outsourcing of their manufacturing activities, and greater focus only on specific markets or applications, whether in response to adverse market conditions or other market pressures. Any of the changes described above may negatively affect our customers’ rate of investment in the capital equipment that we produce, which could result in downward pressure on our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industries, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.Our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been, and is becoming increasingly, highly concentrated due to corporate consolidation, acquisitions and business closures. In this environment, orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a substantial portion of our sales. This increasing concentration exposes our business, financial condition and operating results to a number of risks, including the following: •The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, which exposes our business and operating results to increased volatility tied to individual customers. •New orders from our foundry customers in the past several years have constituted a significant portion of our total orders. This concentration increases the impact that future business or technology changes within the foundry industry may have on our business, financial condition and operating results. •In a highly concentrated business environment, if a particular customer does not place an order, or if they delay or cancel orders, we may not be able to replace the business. Furthermore, because our products are configured to each customer’s specifications, any changes, delays or cancellations of orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. •As a result of this consolidation, the customers that survive the consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales and, consequently, have greater commercial negotiating leverage. Many of our large customers have more aggressive policies regarding engaging alternative, second-source suppliers for the products we offer and, in addition, may seek and, on occasion, receive pricing, payment, intellectual property-related or other commercial terms that may have an adverse impact on our business. Any of these changes could negatively impact our prices, customer orders, revenues and gross margins.  •Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions. Any future change in ownership or management of our existing customers may result in similar challenges, including the possibility of the successor entity or new management deciding to select a competitor’s products.•The highly concentrated business environment also increases our exposure to risks related to the financial condition of each of our customers. For example, as a result of the challenging economic environment during fiscal year 2009, we were (and in some cases continue to be) exposed to additional risks related to the continued financial viability of certain of our customers. To the extent our customers experience liquidity issues in the future, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers. In addition, customers with liquidity issues may be forced to reduce purchases of our equipment, delay deliveries of our products, discontinue operations or may be acquired by one of our customers, and in either case such event would have the effect of further consolidating our customer base.  18Table of Contents•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for that specific production line application and other similar production line applications if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment. Similarly, we expect it to be challenging for a competitor to sell its products to a given customer for a specific production line application if that customer initially selects our equipment.•Prices differ among the products we offer for different applications due to differences in features offered or manufacturing costs. If there is a shift in demand by our customers from our higher-priced to lower-priced products, our gross margin and revenue would decrease. In addition, when products are initially introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin.Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed.The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. The cyclical nature of the primary industry in which we operate is largely a function of our customers’ capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers’ access to capital. This cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, in some cases, future expense levels. During down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. Our ability to recognize revenue from a particular customer may also be negatively impacted by the customer’s funding status, which could be weakened not only by adverse business conditions or inaccessibility to capital markets for any number of macroeconomic or company-specific reasons, but also by funding limitations imposed by the customer’s unique corporate structure. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During periods of declining revenues, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. If we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond fail to accomplish our intended results, then our business could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. Each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 19Table of ContentsIn addition, our management typically provides quarterly forecasts for certain financial metrics, which, when made, are based on business and operational forecasts that are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, largely due to the cyclicality of our business and the industries in which we operate, and the fact that business conditions in our industries can change very rapidly as part of these cycles, our actual results may vary (and have varied in the past) from forecasted results. These variations can occur for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, unexpected changes in the volume or timing of customer orders, product shipments or product acceptances; an inability to adjust our operations rapidly enough to adapt to changing business conditions; or a different than anticipated effective tax rate. The impact on our business of delays or cancellations of customer orders may be exacerbated by the short lead times that our customers expect between order placement and product shipment. This is because order delays and cancellations may lead not only to lower revenues, but also, due to the advance work we must do in anticipation of receiving a product order in order to meet the expected lead times, to significant inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease our gross margin. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial results for a particular quarter and could cause those results to differ materially from financial forecasts we have previously provided. We provide these forecasts with the intent of giving investors and analysts a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future, but parties reviewing such forecasts must recognize that such forecasts are comprised of, and are themselves, forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Item 1A and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. If our operating or financial results for a particular period differ from our forecasts or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we revise our forecasts, the market price of our common stock could decline.Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital StructureIf we do not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business could be seriously harmed.Success in the semiconductor equipment industry depends, in part, on continual improvement of existing technologies and rapid innovation of new solutions. The primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. That driver appears to be slowing, which may cause semiconductor manufacturers to delay investments in equipment, investigate more complex device architectures, use new materials and develop innovative fabrication processes. These and other evolving customer plans and needs require us to respond with continued development programs and cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support. Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees. Our competitive advantage and future business success depend on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, develop and introduce new products and solutions that successfully address changing customer needs, win market acceptance of these new products and solutions, and manufacture these new products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to accurately predict evolving industry standards and develop as well as offer competitive technology solutions in a timely manner with cost-effective products could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.In this environment, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands. Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements. In addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business will be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products.In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks. We regularly recognize revenue from a sale upon shipment of the applicable product to the customer (even before receiving the customer’s formal acceptance of that product) in certain situations, including sales of products for which installation is considered perfunctory, transactions in which the product is sold to an independent distributor and we have no installation obligations, and sales of products where we have previously delivered the same product to the same customer location and that prior delivery has been accepted. However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications. In such a situation, the customer may be entitled to certain remedies, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results for various periods and, as a result, our stock price. 20Table of ContentsWe derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of inspection products. As a result, any delay or reduction of sales of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The continued customer demand for these products and the development, introduction and market acceptance of new products and technologies are critical to our future success.Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to maintain our lead or protect our proprietary technology, we may lose valuable assets.Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights. We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies. The process of seeking patent protection is lengthy and expensive, and we cannot be certain that pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents or that issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Other companies and individuals, including our larger competitors, may develop technologies and obtain patents relating to our business that are similar or superior to our technology or may design around the patents we own, adversely affecting our business. In addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects. The termination of any such collaboration, or delays caused by disputes or other unanticipated challenges that may arise in connection with any such collaboration, could significantly impair our research and development efforts, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations.We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protecti