 Artificial Solutions has built a platform. It's a platform that we call Teneo and it's a platform that allows non-specialists to rapidly build very sophisticated conversational systems, so why are we different? Well, five reasons. Firstly we build highly conversational systems. This means that our solutions can actually query if they don't get enough information it means that they can build a relationship with the user just as a human would do. Indeed they're building a conversation with your customers. Secondly, enterprise. We build enterprise strengths solutions and have built enterprise strengths features into the Teneo platform. For example when you're rolling out multilingual solutions you need to be able to deploy across multiple geographies in multiple languages and that means that you need to have things like distributed work groups, you need check-in/check-out capabilities, you need to be able to host in different environments: host yourself, hosting the cloud, host on-premise. It means that you need things like rollback and automated testing indeed a whole range of different enterprise strength features that have been built into the Teneo platform. Thirdly, hybrid. We have taken the best of machine learning and the best of linguistic learning and bundled it into one integrated solution. There's then data the conversational data because if you can capture the conversational data you can truly start to understand what your customers are thinking, their likes, their dislikes, what they're looking for, their sentiment. And you can use this to better inform your company in terms of what products and services you may wish to deliver you can use it to start to personalize the responses that you give and you can use it to better improve your conversational system. And finally, proven. We've been there, we've deployed multiple enterprise strength solutions on a global basis that speak multiple languages - indeed we support over 35 different languages, and on the back of that and on the back of the Teneo technology we have run multiple awards. So, why are we different Five reasons: conversational, enterprise, hybrid, data and proven. 