 Professional networks are obviously stacked with people and possible connections, but not all of those people are essential  to growing your business. You definitely don’t want to waste loads of time sending cold messages that go nowhere, but on the other hand it can be pretty time-consuming  to narrow your search to the network that's ideal for you. Sumo-lings, we’re about to give you a hand with a tool that gets you warm intros and referrals so you can build a broader, trusted network of colleagues that can help you build a stronger sales pipeline and win deals. Stay tuned for today’s product showcase. What’s going on, Sumo-lings? It’s Vanessa here with AppSumo, and today I’m going to tell you about Sam.ai, which which unleashes the hidden power of your inbox with next-gen relationship management and outreach capability fully powered by the people in your network. In minutes, SAM will analyze your contacts and provide a wealth of inbox intel that you didn’t realize was there. Before I dive into how it works, make sure that you hit that subscribe button and ring the bell so you never miss out on one of AppSumo’s deals. Alrighty, let’s get into it. SAM is all about humanizing the way we use software, and thanks to its voice-activated, conversational AI, you’ll save hours of data entry work every month. Let’s check out how SAM will extend your network from the comfort of your home and grow your business. From the main dashboard, you can edit your profile, import people into your SAM network, and make intros between your network and others. Let’s kick things off by creating our profile. You’ll set a profile image, title, industry, and some other additional info. And then you’ll set up your intro preferences. These preferences act as a filter for the type of introductions and referrals that you’re looking for, and they’re broken down into roles, industries, and organizations. You can add more filters simply  by clicking the Plus button. As you update these preferences, over on the right side of the screen you’ll see the number of people who fall into these categories and meet your search. Click on the category to see who the mystery connections are and the friend that can set you up with warm intros. And check this out: Sam will even determine how well your connection knows this person and the probability of this being a strong match. In our case, you can see we have a lot of 100% matches. From here, you can request an introduction and will get a boilerplate template that you can customize as you see fit. You can also ask the system directly whether someone in your network can make the exact intro you need, for example, when you want to find the contact of someone at a specific company. Now, in order to maximize the number of referrals you get, you’ll want to increase your network size. You’ll do this by inviting people to Sam. Let’s first check out the My Network tab. Here, you’ll see all of your current connections, and you can add anybody into the system that you’d like. To send an invite, go ahead and hit the Invite tab, where you can simply enter the name and email of who you wish to invite. You can also head to the Import tab and bring in contacts directly from your Gmail, Outlook, LinkedIn, and a CSV. On their end, your invitees will receive an email that directs them to the setup wizard and, boom! Once they import their records, you’ll see all of the untapped potential within their contact list. Alright, now that that’s all good to go, let’s head back to the My Network tab, where you will see all of your contacts. You can click into any of their profiles and view a detailed snapshot of the companies and people they can introduce you to. And then the magic happens! Sumo-lings, if you want to grow your network through warm intros that set you up for success, then you better get your hands on Sam.ai today. 