 The ability to use language is as old as humanity.   If there is one superpower that sets humans  apart from all other living things it is language For centuries storytellers as well as scientists  dreamed of building machines that could understand   and respond in human language. And that turned  out to be very very hard because language is   incredibly complex. Our brains are wired to be  good at it but computers are not. Conversational   AI is the technology that ultimately enables  machines to naturally interact with humans   via language. It is a subset of artificial  intelligence that leverages concepts like neural   networks machine learning and others and makes  them available to build useful applications with   it like hands-free control while you're driving,  Siri waiting for your command or even virtual   agents that assist in customer support on phone  lines. Conversational AI has two key components   the first is natural language understanding  or NLU. It is an AI driven capability that   can extract meaning from written or spoken text.  Think of something simple like asking "What time   is it?". There are many ways humans can express  this question and NLU can process them in real   time and recognize the underlying intent. It's  what makes the Conversational AI smart. The second   component is about the ability to deploy NLU to  action. It is the toolbox that brings AI powered   conversations to life on the end user's screens,  devices, cars and so on - and it connects them   with whatever is needed to reach their goals like  play a song, reset my password, file an insurance   claim or anything else that can be done with  language. And this enables them to not only chat,   but to get things done. So what's the difference  between a chatbot and Conversational AI?   Conversational AI can be used to build really  powerful chatbots but a chatbot is just one   channel - and Conversational AI is designed to  assist users on any channel in spoken or written   language whenever they need it. And ultimately it  brings back the most natural way of interaction   which is language to our technology driven world.  Check the link in the description below for a more   detailed guide on how it works, its applications  and even how to get started building your own   virtual agents. Don't worry it's easy. Thank  you, my name is Sebastian and we are Cognigy. 