 Hey everyone, welcome back to another episode of TECH WITH SACH. My name is Sachin, a Google Developer Expert and in this video, we'll be building a chatbot, a call agent, and an action for the Google Assistant all using Dialogflow's latest feature called knowledge base. So without further adieu, let's get started. So the first step to do is head over to console.actions.google.com and click on New Project. Agree to the terms of service. And give a project name of your choice. So behind the scenes, this is creating a Google Cloud project. Once you are into the actions console and since we are building a conversational chatbot go ahead and click on Conversational So the first step to do is to go to build your action, Add an Action and click Build your first Action So, click on custom intent and click on Build. This would take us to Dialogflow console. So let's go ahead and agree to the terms of service and click accept. So once we sign into Dialogflow, this will immediately pre-fill the information of our project ID and click create so this is creating a Dialogflow agent behind the scenes. So once our agent is created. So once our agent is created, we have to make sure that we greet the user. So the first thing to do is. The default welcome intent and change the response over here. So this would typically be the response that the user would see once they interact with our application. So here, we are just notifying the user what are chatbot is all about or what our chatbot can do. So in this case, as an example, we have chosen how to use or give all the answers about Google Compute Engine. So our chatbot is going to be about answering all the information about Google Compute Engine. So the next thing to do is, this entire chatbot is going to be built using knowledge connectors. So knowledge connecter is a Beta feature. So we have to enable that in the settings, so click on the settings icon, enable that specific feature and click on save. Once our agent is successfully saved, go to knowledge, and create a knowledge base. Once our knowledge base is created, since we are building a compute engine knowledge base over here, we have to create a knowledge document so go ahead and click on create. Give a document name. So in this case on we have given Compute Engine FAQ, we have an option of knowledge type as FAQ and MIME type as HTML as well as CSV. So let's go ahead and search for a computer engine FAQ URL. Copy the URL and head back into Dialogflow and paste the specific URL onto your knowledge document. So that's it, just by doing these specific steps, you have created a knowledge base or a knowledge document. So if we click on view detail you can see that it has parsed all the questions and answers from that specific URL. So now that we have added our knowledge document, let's add a response so the response is automatically created based on the document that's been attached. So the knowledge document will parse through all the questions and queries and our knowledge connector is all set. So the next thing to do is go to integration and since we are creating a chatbot over here, enable the web demo so this will allow you to create your own chatbot. So just by visiting that specific URL, you have your own complete chatbot already built-in. So as you can see, once I say "Hi" or any types of greetings, it will trigger our Default Welcome Intent and anything after that is all being parsed by the knowledge base or the knowledge connectors. You can also copy the iframe and quickly create let's say any HTML document or you can have an existing website, you can paste this specific iframe code into that specific website and you can have your chatbot ready within seconds. So let's copy that iframe, paste it save this as HTML and  as you can see once our HTML file is open, we have our chatbot working or integrated into our website. So this is a simple example of how easy it is to build a complete chatbot just by using the latest feature called Dialogflow knowledge base. So now that we have created a chatbot successfully, let's go ahead and integrate this with the Google Assistant. So click on Google Assistant and hit test. So this would open up the Actions on Google console test simulator. So go ahead and click on "Talk to my test app". Let's get the test version of my test app. Hi, I can help you answer about Google Compute Engine. So as you can see our entire application or chatbot is now available for the Google Assistant as well. Compute engine as an infrastructure as a service product offering flexible self-managed virtual machines hosted on Google's infrastructure. Compute Engine includes Linux and Windows-based virtual machines running on KVM local and durable storage options and a simple rest-based API for configuration and control. The service integrates with Google Cloud technology such as cloud storage app engine and BigQuery to extend beyond the basic computational capability to create more complex and sophisticated apps. Let's go ahead and ask another question. Whats the pricing? network use virtual machines are charged on a per second basis with a one-minute minimum storage cost is calculated based on the amount of data, you store Network cost is calculated based on the amount of data transferred between virtual machine instances that communicate with each other and with the internet. For more information review our price sheet. So that was pretty simple, right? So the next thing that we have to do is we've greater the chatbot we've created an action for the Google Assistant Let's go ahead and create a Call Agent, Click on Dialogflow Phone Gateway, so take note that the Dialogflow Phone Gateway is an enterprise edition offer if you'd like to use it as a standard edition the phone numbers will change after every 30 days. So go ahead and click. And another thing to note is at this point it's only available in the United States. That means that you will get a US-specific number. So go ahead and click create. You can see a specific number is assigned to you as long as you contact that specific number our chatbot will be available directly into the Specific number as well. So anytime you call that number We have our chatbot ready to answer everything about the compute engine. So now that we have a phone number, let's go ahead and dial and check if our chatbot is actually working Good day. How do I get started? call agent speaks So as you can see we have built a chatbot, create a calling agent and we have created an Action for the Google Assistant all using just a very powerful feature called knowledge base and knowledge connectors. At the time of this recording, knowledge base is a beta feature so take note of that but pretty soon, I'm sure that a lot of businesses out there who already have an FAQ document can automatically ingest that document into the knowledge base and create a knowledge document and quickly create chatbots to serve your customers. Let me know in the comments below on what you guys build using knowledge connectors and if you like to see more such videos, click the like button as well as subscribe to the channel and click on the bell icon so that you can be notified for future videos. So hope you guys enjoyed this video and see you guys in the next one. A knowledge base represents a collection of knowledge documents that you provide to Dialogflow. knowledge documents contain information that may be useful during conversations with end-users. Knowledge connectors parse knowledge documents ( FAQs or articles) to find automated responses. Subscribe to the channel for more content. 