 Hi, l'm Marcus, the CEO of Stackchat. We're an enterprise conversational marketing platform, so we allow you to build an intelligent voice assistant, embed that in your website and mobile app, or bring your brand to social channels like Facebook and Wechat, and create interactive experiences with your consumers there. Today, l'm going to talk to you a little bit about the 5 things you need to think about when picking an enterprise conversational marketing platform. So, what does it mean for a solution to be "Enterprise Grade?" First up: they should offer an SLA to guarantee certain kinds of up-times and reliability, and that should align with your existing business systems. Secondly, you want a solution that can conform with industry regulations around privacy, security, encryption - your data should be encrypted at rest and in transit - and finally, you want a solution that can scale massively. You don’t want to have to worry about provisioning extra servers and things like that when you’re running a big campaign. It should just effortlessly scale any type of load you can throw at it. So number 2, you need to pick the engagement model that works the best for your business, and there are 3 different types of engagement models you’ll see out there: Number one is a pure professional services engagement where the vendor's team will come in, implement the solution - you might not necessarily get access to the software at all and that’s fine, the professional services team will just build it all for you and deploy that model out into production. Number two is self-service and it’s kind of the other end of the spectrum where the vendor will provide you with a license to their software and it’s up to you to build up a team internally to build the solution on that vendor's software and get it into production yourself. Finally there’s the hybrid approach and that’s where a vendor will provide you access to the software directly as well as a professional services team and then that way you can have a hybrid model where your internal team and a professional service team work together to build out the solution, and maybe long term you as a business can inherit the solution and maintain it going forward. So, it’s up to you to find which of those models best works for your business and pick a vendor that supports that model. The third point is the deployment model. Now your business’ data privacy requirements will generally govern what type of model is required for a conversational marketing platform. So the few different types: you might have a completely dedicated on-premise deployment; you might have data isolation but in a shared hosting environment; or you could have data being co-mingled together. You just need to understand what your industry’s and your business’ requirements are around data privacy protection and find a vendor that can support that. So, point number four is having the flexibility to pick the right AI provider for you. When it comes to AI, it’s not “one size fits all”, alright, there are different AI providers for different use cases and you want to pick a platform that allows you to flexibly mix-and-match for your specific use case. If you’re, say, targeting Chinese consumers in Mainland China, you’re going to need totally different AI providers to if you’re targeting, say, consumers in the United States who might have a strong foreign accent. So, make sure you have that flexibility and you can customise that AI stack for each solution for your specific use case. The fifth point is integration with existing business systems. Now, this is important because you’ve made a big investment already in your business tools and you want a solution that allows you to leverage all that investment in the chat experiences that you’re creating. For example, you’ve got a marketing cloud and you’ve got analytics, a DMP and a CMS, and a digital management asset tool in there, you’ve got a CRM, a bunch of customer records, right, if you could bring all that power to bare in your conversational experiences you can create far more compelling experiences for your consumers that way. So you want a platform that makes that super easy to do. If you’re building an intelligent assistant that’ll be integrated into the rest of your platform, your consumers will expect the same resilience, and the same quality, the same uptime as your CMS, your mail delivery platform, and there are vendors out there who have solutions that have that same level of professionalism and the same enterprise features. So you need to be assessing these tools in the same way that you would assess these other mission-critical enterprise solutions that you have already in the office, and a $100 a month / $30 a month solution out there definitely will not tick all the boxes and pass a security audit that an enterprise solution will. So that’s why you need to care, and that’s why you need to have a good framework for assessing the best players on the market. 