 Good morning everyone can you hear me in the back? Great. So are as people are coming along I think we should get started because we have a pretty jam packed session. So my name is Neeraj Arora. I'm an associate director at PCORI I oversee a lot of our initiatives on palliative and advancing illness care. And I want to welcome all of you for this session. We hope it will be a very meaningful interaction amongst not only our panelists but also discussion with all of you. I hope you're all planning this meeting to be as invigorating as I am. It's always very exciting to go to a conference where you have researchers and stakeholders engaging in a dialogue on addressing common problems from different perspectives. And I hope that this session will further facilitate those discussions not only during the time we have together but also you know over the course of the next two days. So I just sort of before we get started I want to share that. You know every once in a while right we we get up in the morning and you feel that wow today is going to be a perfect day in my life. And that's how I felt when I woke up this morning because today is the day I've been waiting for a long time to cross one thing off of my bucket list and that's to be on the same podium as my favorite person in the world. Amy Berman. So so so. So for me it wasn't even before we got started. This has been a very successful final days so. So thanks Amy. And literally it's a very delighted to have this panel and to bring the discussion today and I hope that you will all be involved and engaged and sharing your viewpoints as well. I just before we get started give you an overview of our panel. Amy do you want to say a few words of welcome to our friends. Welcome friends. This is really a remarkable panel because we are able to share some of the new scientific findings related to advance care planning related to palliative care related to the work that helps people like me and others have not only well but lived the best possible life in the face of serious illness and also have their decisions honored as they reach end of life. We know that these things are important but the work that PCORI is doing is really helping us understand what are the best ways to do this. What are the approaches that are going to be important. And so I welcome you all to listen to today's discussion and really think about how you might within the places that you work or advocate for better care how you might take up this evidence these findings because that's the place that we're at. There's no longer a question about whether these things are right important get better health outcomes. The question is are we going to learn the best ways possible to move forward and how are we going to do this so that people can have better lives. And I would say people in their families people who are supporting people that care versus well. So I'm really looking forward to the presentations today I will say that for me it is an unbelievable honor to be here at PCORI. I see Joe Selby out in the audience and I just want to recognize and thank him for the work that PCORI has done. And for anybody who's been part of the reviews that has made these grants possible wow just wow this is such important work. And then finally I just want to say to dear Neeraj There is a love between us. And it is sincere and deep and you know it goes back a long way. I admire Neeraj personally and professionally in the most profound way. Everybody here has a story and you may or may not know Neeraj his story but I have to tell you on every level this is a person who I hold in the highest esteem. So to be on a panel with him that's why there's this little love thing going on. So thank you. In you can moderate a session when you have tears in your eyes. So thanks. But I just want to put this in a little bit of context. I mean we did a fabulous job yesterday with her inspiring keynote. I really set the stage for this. You know. But it goes without saying that with aging of the population we go to almost everyone every household in this country is going to be facing a once and serious illnesses right either whether we walk in the shoes of the patient or walk in the shoes of the caregiver or both. And in many instances we might experience this on multiple occasions. So when we talk about stakeholders we don't take orders right. We all have a stake in trying to really facility and optimize outcomes for patients living with advanced illnesses and improving care delivery because we know that when confronted with serious illnesses not only is it a great burden of illness both for the patient and the caregiver but it is navigating the health care system adds insult to injury if you're right and it's incumbent upon all of us to really come together and try to figure out ways of how we can transform advanced care in this country. So it's not surprising that given that because we pride ourselves to be a stakeholder driven organization that we have invested a lot of our funding in a variety of topics addressing advanced illness and citizen as population we've funded studies that are looking at Antoine's care plan and goals of care shared decision making looking at different ways of organizing care more effectively and efficiently so that we can reach patients while they're living in their communities. So their focus is not necessarily on improving care for them when they're actually dying from advancing and this is what we really need to do a better job of supporting our patients and caregivers when they're actively living with advanced illnesses and you know he of course is a poster child for that and we really need to do a lot more than what we've been doing and we are very humble and gratified at victory to be able to make at least a small contribution in space. So a lot of our studies that we've funded hard investigator initiated where a lot of our stakeholders have come together with our researchers and identified real world problems and then sent proposals to Pecora and said OK this is the research that needs to be done to address the dilemma that we are facing. And we'll hear from two of our stellar awardees today who I'll introduce in a few minutes. And in addition to our stakeholder initiated studies. Amy thanks for the shout out yesterday in your keynote. One of the central pieces of hard investment has been this funding announcement we had last year our Board of Governors invested 74 million dollars in seven large multistate clinical trials ever happening all over the country today addressing issues of how we can really you know improve delivery of community based palliative care to our patients and caregivers across a variety of illnesses across a variety of settings. And these studies collectively are enrolling patients from 24 states in the country so there's a large footprint of these studies all over the country and we hope to bring our findings from those studies over the course of future not annual meetings because we are really hoping that our findings from these studies would be transformative but just funding the studies enough is not enough right. I mean the focus of this whole conference is on impact and we'll see that more and more in future annual meeting so we really need to continue to working with all of our stakeholders to make sure that our findings get translated into truly changes in how care is delivered in this country for this patient population today. Like I said we are going to hear from two of our stellar awardees we'll first hear from Dr. Randy Curtis and he he's one of our leaders in the field of palliative care critical care and palliative care physician and he is going to present on the wonderful work that he's done on the study that focuses on goals of care conversations that was published a few months ago in Tampa internal medicine and his study is also we have results that we're really excited to showcase findings from our first you know first few studies that funded way back that created the foundation for a larger investment subsequently. And he's also accompanied by Priscilla Armstrong who has been a leader of the patient caregiver and Community Advisory Board. And I will also share her thoughts about you know being in all in this study and as you know each and every study we find that it requires significant stakeholder involvement because we really believe that by engaging the end user of this study from the very beginning sadly going to be much more meaningful but it also increases the likelihood of the findings being taken up in clinical practice. We after the funding period is over so very very excited to have our patient and caregiver partners here as well. After Andy got this we'll hear from Dr. Wendy Kluger again another fascinating partnership between patients advocacy organizations and physicians coming together identifying a problem and then recording funding research to address those problems. So Dr. Kluger is going to talk about his study which is ongoing so we here hot off the press preliminary findings from benzene on evaluating effectiveness of incorporating palliative care as part of care for patients with Parkinson's disease. There are the work that they've done looks at how adding palliative care as an additional layer of support as Amy talked about yesterday to patients with better care who are receiving care from their primary care doctors and their neurologists. This very nicely builds on Jim Dorsey's presentation that we heard about this morning and Menzies accompanied by Kirk and Linda Hall who had been very instrumental in not only being part of the study but even devising this they've been in conceptualizing the study the you know they've been part of the research application process and then implementing the study all talk. And then in addition to researchers bill then we have a treat in store for you you're going to hear from three stakeholders we'll first hear from Megan Feeney who's from the Parkinson's Foundation and Megan's organization has been intimately involved. But when these work and in heaven before or even I mean thinking about how how can we really engage patients in research efforts. So Megan will share her perspective very briefly and then we'll also be involved in the discussion and we'll have Priscilla can also be involved in discussion that will happen at the end of this session because we really want to hear from a patient and caregiver stakeholder about their experiences. And then the next 20 minutes of our structured meeting is going to be a real treat because we get to hear from me once again very you know we can't hear enough from me. So Amy's going to spend about 10 minutes to reflect on the presentations and give her perspective. And finally last but not least I am absolutely delighted to have with us Dr. Burnham Ali Bell is a professor at Georgetown University. And but more importantly for this session is the coach of SeaTac SeaTac as most of you should know has put together the dream team of coalition of all stakeholders who are really vested in this area who come together and rolling up their sleeves and saying how can we really truly transform the delivery of advanced care in this country and advocate who we're really honored and humbled to you know feel very small very small rural and the great effort that it's been leading. And then those other calls for families that he's been in has passed life the fearless leader of a party and they've done a lot of work in this space as well. So hopefully you'll put into perspective the impact of what we're doing it because in the larger picture within the policy and clinical practice that you are leading in this country. So after that our final speaker is gonna be all of you you said to say 20 to 25 minutes for discussion where we feel free to ask questions to our panelists feel free to more than asking questions. Give us your perspective. Any guidance you have for Cody as we move forward in this space and we truly want this to be a dialogue between all our panelists and all of you. So with that overview I want to invite Dr. Curtis to the stage. Also we want to stick on time. So I will give a two minute warning to all of you. Unfortunately we don't have that recording music that we had for the panel discussions but I would have loved to have played that and then you know in case you're going all time but I'll be gentle because it's a brilliant session whereas you could sing the music if you need to. Good morning. I'm Randy Curtis and principal investigator on this because he said that I'm going to tell you about it I'm joined by Priscilla Armstrong who is co-chair of our committee advisory board and it's been a patient and family stakeholder for this study. So we have no financial conflicts of interest to disclose. We do want to acknowledge our funding and particularly PCORI for funding this trial. We also received some support from the can be a health foundation as well as our health care system UW Madison Square Garden. As I said this study was published in JAMA Internal Medicine and it was published online in May 26 to twenty eighteen. I had the privilege of leading this team and Priscilla and also Ron Packer co-chairs of our committee Advisory Board were investigators on this study and I thought what I would do is start by a little bit of terminology particularly around how we're using the terms advance care planning and goals and care discussions for this study. Different people sometimes use these terms a little bit differently but we're using advance care planning more broadly as discussions about values goals and preferences for future care. And that can be for healthy individuals. All of us should participate in advance care planning those with chronic illness as well as those who are imminently dying and that goals of care discussions we're defining as a subset of discussions about current goals and how they should inform current and and sort of immediate future care. And that can happen with patients with chronic life limiting illness which I would consider a sort of early goals of care discussion. It can also happen with those who are imminently dying which I would consider late goals of care discussion and our study really focuses on this this concept of early goals of care discussion for patients with chronic and life limiting illness. I don't really have to give you any background if you heard Amy Berman's presentation about the importance of advance care planning and goals here discussions. But I will say in addition to that compelling testimony to the importance of it there have also been research studies that have shown that it's associated increased quality of care and quality of life reduce psychological distress and reduced intensity of care at the end of life. And yet frequently these discussions don't occur for patients with chronic and serious illness. And so our research question was Can a bi directional patient's specific communication priming intervention improve goals of care discussions in the outpatient setting. So what does all that mean. Well by bi directional we really mean that the intervention included facing a patient pacing component as well as a clinician facing component and patient specific. The way we accomplish that was we actually surveyed patients to get their specific views on having these kinds of discussions and the things that were important to them to help Prime and guide discussions. Our study design was that we did a cluster randomized trial where we randomized primary care and specialty clinicians to either the intervention or to usual care and then their patients were assigned according to the randomization of the clinicians. We did this in two large multi hospital healthcare systems in Seattle. Patients were eligible if they had a chronic illness and a median survival of approximately two years in the intervention group got this what we called a jumpstart tips form a patient specific one page prompt based on patient surveys that was delivered before the target a targeted routine clinic visit to both the patient as well as their clinician the control group got you what I would consider usual care plus they got usual camp plus they were asked asked to fill out these surveys and I think as you'll see in the results these surveys did prompt some discussions as well. And then for the statistical nerds in the audience and you know who you are. What we did was we used an intention to treat approach with cluster analysis adjusting for baseline characteristics which I think is particularly important because of the cluster design. So what are the JumpStart form look like this is a sample of what the clinicians received or at least two thirds of what the clinicians received which gave information about this specific patient whether they reported they'd ever had these kinds of discussions before. Did they want to discuss it in more detail and then some suggestions about how to use that information as well as giving some information about their preferences. The patients received a similar but patient focusing form giving some tips about talking to your doctor about your medical care and some important questions you could ask if you feel a little nervous. Some suggestions and then also highlighted what the patients told us on the surveys that they could review in terms of outcomes we looked at the occurrence of goals of care discussions in two ways patient reports by surveys two weeks after the clinic visit as well as the electronic health record documentation by clinicians. We also surveyed patients said two weeks to ask them a series of questions about their assessment of the clinicians quality of communication and then at three months we asked patients a couple of questions to help us try to determine whether they viewed themselves as receiving Gore can coordinate care and I'll show you how we did that. And then we also looked at symptoms of anxiety and depression amongst patients at three and six months. Our primary outcome was whether we could increase the occurrence of goals of care discussions as reported by patients. This is our busy consort diagram for clinicians. What's important is that we enroll one hundred and thirty two clinicians and randomize those and I think it's important to realize that we got participation from 27 percent of the clinicians who were eligible for this study. And I think that's an issue that's important to sort of keep in mind. There were 73 percent of clinicians who said gosh you know I'm really busy. No thanks. And those clinicians may have differed from the ones who participated. We had 92 percent of the enrolled clinicians participating in the primary outcome. This is the council diagram for patients we had. I can't even read that it's so small we had 500 plus enrolled and now we had fifty nine percent participation patients who are more willing to participate than clinicians and this shows you our follow up at two weeks three months and six months. This shows you a little bit about the clinicians. 24 percent identify themselves as being from a racial ethnic minority group. On average they were 47 years old. A little more than half were women and most were physicians. Some nurse practitioners and most were in primary care but we had we had clinicians and specialty care as well. And then in terms of the patients 21 percent reported themselves as being from a racial or ethnic minority. Their average age was 73. Much older than clinicians 50 about almost 50 percent were female. Cancer was the most common diagnosis but you can see there was really a smattering of a lot of different diagnoses and I couldn't even include them all on this slide. So here's our primary results. This is whether or not we were able to prompt an occurrence of a girls care discussion at the target visit. And we did see a significant increase both in terms of patient reports as well as the electronic health record documentation. The 31 percent in the control group as I mentioned before I think that's higher than you would see if you just went out and surveyed patients about a doctor visit. I think we did prompt discussions with the surveys alone but the survey plus the jumpstart for them really increased that dramatically to 74 percent. And then questions documented more little less than patients reported not surprisingly but also a significant increase. Patients also rated their doctor communication as higher and this is a first survey items on this quality of communication construct and it went from two point one to four point six. What does that mean. Well one of the ways we can understand what that means is something called the Cohen effect size and this is a moderate effect size. So we had a moderate effect on increasing clinician ratings. This shows you the items that were on this seven item questionnaire and the four items in red are the four item construct that we showed to be unit dimensional and used in our in our in our total score there. And you can see that three of the four red ones that we identified did significantly improve. Some did not. And then I mentioned the patient reported goal and coordinate care as an important piece of this as well. We asked clinician I'm sorry we asked patients if you had to make a choice at this time would you prefer a plan of care focusing on extending life as much as possible even if it means having more pain and discomfort or relieving pain and discomfort as much as possible even if it means not living as long. This is a forced choice item that many people don't like because in fact most people don't have to make a choice between these two. But we find it useful as a way of identifying individuals priorities and then we also asked in addition to what would you do right now if you had to make a choice. Do you think the focus of your current care is if those two were aligned we called that goal and coordinate care if they were not. We called it goal discordant care and then we looked at patient reported goal and coordinate care at three months. Overall the increase in the full sample but not in a way that was statistically significant but we wanted to focus specifically on those patients who had stable goals between that time and the prior measurement since those are the patients that we would think clinicians could enact golden cordon care. And we did see a significant improvement in Gulf important care in that group. We measured symptoms anxiety depression and as well at three and six months and we found no differences by the measure we use and a number of different ways of analyzing those results. So in conclusion in terms of the study results we had increased occurrence and quality of goals of care discussions both by patient report as well as medical record documentation increased patient reported golden coordinate care among patients with stable goals and no change in symptoms of anxiety or depression so at least these discussions didn't prompt symptoms of anxiety and depression. And we believe that this can be a useful intervention for health care systems interesting increasing early goals of care discussions and without a minute turned over to Priscilla to talk a little bit about the patient family a stakeholder input. Thank you Randi. One of the reasons I'm here is I spent 10 years taking care of my mother and my father both who had pretty serious chronic illnesses. And during one of the really rough patches my mother needed authority centerpieces pretty much every week. And so I would take her to the University of Washington Medical Center Hospital and go through you know probably a three hour process and then it became twice a week and this went on for quite a while. And it was very taxing on her and me as a caregiver as well and I went to we went to her doctor her pulmonologist and who happened to be Dr. Randy Curtis and he recommended we speak to someone about getting a catheter up placed permanently and the the. That was my first experience with palliative care and the. And the difference was unbelievable in her quality of life. She didn't need to wear oxygen during the day anymore only at night. She could really of her pain in her home in less than 20 minutes the pain and discomfort from shortness of breath and we didn't have to travel to the hospital anymore. So that was my first experience and it was really very impactful and I and I'm a strong believer in palliative care and so was very honored to become a part of the community advisory board for a couple of years and then become co-chair. So Ron park and I are co-chairs and the the community community advisory board which I'll refer to as cab now. It is comprised of 20 to 25 members from all walks of life and it was created to to support the. Can be a palliative care center of excellence and make sure that they were meeting their mission with patients stakeholder input. So we were able to participate in that. We were able to help with the as the cab. We gave a group perspective in the content of the PCORI funded surveys et cetera and videos. And then as well as the Post the post project interview qualitative interviews as well. So we just provided information like let's make sure that this is not too wordy. Let's make sure that it's very patient focused and we were very very happy to be part of the study and support the the good work that the research team was doing. And then just lastly again on a personal note. My father is an infectious disease doctor at memorials was at Memorial Sloan Kettering. He's retired now and he frequently published in JAMA. And so to be a part of this project and a part of the review process was very impactful as well. And I'm just grateful that you're all doing this work because it's made a big impact on my life. So thank you. Thank you. Okay well thanks for having me at this meeting. MARTIN Very excited to present these results. It was a amazing study an amazing opportunity that Corey allowed us to have. So the question that we wanted to ask was whether outpatient palliative care improves patient centered outcomes in Parkinson's disease. I have nothing to disclosed. And my primary objectives for this talk is one is to help people to realize that Parkinson's is not a benign illness that people affected by Parkinson's both patients and caregivers have very significant palliative care needs. And to also understand how our models of care can affect whether those needs get matter or they don't get met. And I would argue that under our current models of care that they tend to not get met as well as they could and then lastly and excitingly I'm going to present the results of our study which we've completed we've done our initial analysis and they demonstrate I think very conclusively that our patient and team based palliative care for our patients and families affected by Parkinson's does improve patient and family centred outcomes as background. Parkinson's disease is the second most common neuro to general illness after Alzheimer's disease that affects 1 to 2 percent of people over age 60 practically a million people in the US sixty thousand new diagnoses each year much more common I think than people realize. While people oftentimes think of Parkinson's disease as tremor Parkinson's is much more than that non motor symptoms such as dementia which can affect up to 80 percent of people with Parkinson's disease it's the number one cause of nursing home placement in people with Parkinson's pain depression fatigue these nine motor symptoms are actually better predictors of patient quality of life than motor symptoms are and is all talk about. These are not well addressed under our current models of care. Lastly and something that came up from our discussions with Kirkwall and other patients is something that we're calling the mortality myth. And so what we're taught in medical school what patients are told everywhere including Michael J Fox Foundation website is that Parkinson's is not a fatal illness. Parkinson's is the 14th leading cause of death in the United States. People with Parkinson's disease do not live as long as people without Parkinson's disease Parkinson's directly contributes to their mortality. And unless we see this and addressed this in a open and realistic fashion we're doing a disservice to our patients. Additional gaps in our models of care is that non motor symptoms the number one reason that they are not effectively treated is not because treatments don't work but because they're under recognized. So when it comes to things like pain and depression about 50 percent of the time doctors don't recognize some patients are having those symptoms they tend to fall between the cracks. Secondly Parkinson's is known to be associated with very high caregiver burden high caregiver distress. And yet there are really no systematic means of assessing caregiver well-being. And this is not something that's routinely supported even in centers of excellence. There is very significant psychological and spiritual concerns associated with Parkinson's disease some of the things that we see in our clinic include grief from people sense loss of what they're no longer able to do their sense of personhood guilt particularly guilt for being a burden to other members of their family social isolation loneliness very normal and expected emotional reactions to having a chronic and incurable illness and yet things that we do not routinely address in our current models of care people with Parkinson's are more likely to die in a hospital than at home. And just by show of hands how many people here would want to die in a hospital. Just curious. OK. However I mean I think in our clinic when I ask people most people want to die at home had personally wanted to die at Iraqis game. I don't know if anyone follows baseball but you know maybe possible. But anyway we're doing the patients a disservice when we're not preparing them for the end of life. We're not looking at those signs and hospice is very much under utilized in this population. So so based on this data we came up with this conceptual model of our current chronic care model for Parkinson's disease and so we know neurologist do a great job with motor symptoms with Parkinson's medications that patient to get care from a neurologist little longer they have less hip fractures they're less likely to go to a nursing home primary care providers obviously pay an important role in this aging population with comorbid illnesses and on Parkinson's medications. But unfortunately there's a lot of things that fall between the cracks in this model. So patients and caregivers are really left on their own to do advanced care planning to do caregiver support or to take care of a spiritual and existential needs and the result we have the typical outcomes that I've just described which is that we have good motor symptom control we have fair and unfair symptom management and then end of life care caregiver support and psychosocial support are sorely lacking. Know I'll get back to this later with our qualitative interviews. This is our palliative care model which actually started with Janice Masaki and who started a palliative care clinic for Parkinson's in 2008. And so in the system neurologists and primary care providers continue to do what they're good at. But instead of having the patient and caregiver do things that they are not trained to do. We bring in a palliative and supportive care team to take on these tasks so we have a physician that can help them with prognosis non motor symptoms. We have a nurse a social worker and a chaplain who can help a psychosocial support caregiver support spiritual well-being and our hypothesis is that with this team in place we're going to close these gaps. We're gonna have better patient quality of life better caregiver support better known motor symptom treatment better emotional well-being and a very intentionally pragmatic randomized comparative effectiveness trial was multi side involving the University of Colorado University of California San Francisco and University of Alberta. And these are the three sites with the longest standing experience of delivering this model of care. We can produce full care which we defined as a neurologist plus a primary care provider and then we didn't think it was fair to compare this level of care to people who were receiving care only from a primary care provider. Given that we know neurologists help and then our intervention well as usual care plus this team based outpatient palliative care and so we had General palliative physician and I would like to note that all of our neurologists were not palliative care fellowship trained. We had a palliative medicine doctor at each side who helped coach our team who was involved with assisting our team. And I think this is a very effective model for integrating palliative care across specialties including in neurology and that doesn't overburden an already very stretched thin palliative care workforce. And then we use standardized checklists to ensure fidelity across sites allowing each team to have flexibility but also to have some standardization or specific aims to determine whether this model of care improved patient quality of life and caregiver burden to identify characteristics of patients and caregivers who are most likely to benefit from this palliative care model. We use qualitative interviews to try to further optimize these services as in an exploratory aim was to look at how these services impacted health care utilization and that was not just to see if we reduced certain types of health care utilization such as hospitalization and home health care but also to see if we increased other types of health care utilization such as home health services such as psychologist and counseling. Our inclusion exclusion criteria are fairly broad. We took anybody with concerns or a related disorder who had moderate to high palliative care needs. We specifically excluded people who had urgent palliative care needs as we did not feel that that would be ethical to randomize those people and then we very strongly believe that palliative care would help them. And then we also excluded people who had another diagnosis or were already receiving palliative care. I won't go through all of our primary and secondary outcome measures right now. The Quantified Alzheimer's disease was chosen and that I think it gets at more of the items that palliative care really helps and is different than the Parkinson's Disease questionnaire 39 which is more about health related quality of life things like going to a grocery store or walking five blocks things that palliative care is not really meant to help. And our primary outcome was to look at differences and change at the six month time point Cook hall and linda who are here were part of our amazing patient and caregiver advisory council. I'd like to say that this really started actually when Kirk invited me to give a talk at his support group on death with dignity. And interestingly the medical aid in dying or proposition 1 0 6 act in Colorado was pushed forward by people with Parkinson's disease a person with Parkinson's put that forward and I think it really speaks to the very high level of palliative care needs in this population and this advisory council helped us from the outset with study design conduct and recruitment analysis. There were papers that we would not be writing if it wasn't for our patient advisory councils. They played an instrumental role. You're gonna hear from me again about our relationship with the Parkinson's Foundation which was also very beneficial I think to the study and then we have representatives from other Parkinson's Support organizations insurance and hospitals and we're very excited to talk to them next week with a wrap up session to understand from their perspective as stakeholders how can we implement this. What we now show to be an effective model of care so our current status is that we completed recruitment of 210 patients and I believe one hundred eighty caregivers people didn't have to have a caregiver to be in the study. We completed data collection last month. We actually completed data cleaning yesterday the analysis that I'm going to present to you are very unlikely to change with further analysis. These are all intent to treat analysis and what we showed was that quality of life of Alzheimer's disease improved it was actually statistically significant at six months and remains significant through the remainder of the study with a nearly one point improvement in the palliative care arm versus nearly one point worsening in usual care. We similarly found a improvement in terms as Eric Berg inventory at six months there was point seventy five worsening in the pound of cure arm 2.5 worsening and usual care. And as you can see at the twelve point time point that gap widened and I think that it has to do with the fact that Parkinson's is a progressive illness and that palliative care helps people more at later stages of the illness as far as other results. There was a very significant improvement in terms of symptom control and symptom burden in palliative care improvement in grief. There was a trend towards improvement in health related quality of life and actually in aggressively we didn't expect this to happen but a slight improvement actually and motor symptoms on the CPRS caregivers and patients reported global improvement. And we did not see significant differences in spiritual well-being or mood. Also just to note that we didn't specifically recruit people with anxiety and depression and that's one of our planned secondary outcomes to see if people had anxiety depression at the outset of the study. Did that improve more in the palliative care arm regarding our qualitative study if you can think back to those conceptual models. They were really borne out in what we heard from patients when we talked to them directly. So in the usual care group they reported that they were actually when we talked to them about a health care team they asked what does that mean. They didn't feel like they had a health care team. We explained it to them and ask them who the captain was. It was usually the answer was I guess my caregiver I guess my wife I guess. And they also felt that they were very much in the dark when it came to trying to plan for the future over and over again. You hear this again for me again. They wanted a roadmap to help them to to move forward in the palliative care group. They felt supported. They identified the neuro palliative physician as the captain of their team. They felt they had a roadmap. They had a guide for their journey. They felt heard and seen as people and importantly they felt empowered to engage with life goals with meaning and with joy. And as a side note in our qualitative interviews to people I you I know from Colorado one of them went to England for a family reunion. One of them actually got connected with her high school sweetheart and they are now he's moving to Denver. And I bring that up now that I'm going to guarantee that with palliative care. But that is what that's actually what good palliative care does is that it helps people to live better and in our goals of care discussions. The questions we have on our checklist Are you enjoy what are you looking forward to. And we have those discussions with people again and again throughout the study. They have a roadmap now they have guides to help them manage their illness and it's amazing how much more engaged they were with life at the end of the study than beginning in terms of optimizing palliative care for Parkinson's disease patients have some very great suggestions. One was to engage patient and caregivers for peer to peer guidance in navigating and we've actually instituted that at our center. So we now have a patient and a caregiver who are part of our clinic visits you reach out to patients and that's been an amazing program. They wanted more written summaries including wanting more quantitative details about where they are. And this again gets back to this idea of a roadmap. They wanted us to continue to and even further strengthen us reaching out to patients into care partners that they often felt uncomfortable giving us a call they didn't know when to call. And so for us to reach out to them and for them to have a pure navigator I think makes a very big difference. And lastly despite the fact that we were paying some attention to care partners that they wanted more individual attention to care partners and to make it a routine habit to let the care partner to have some time on their own away from the patient. As far as current and future directions we are already instituting these improvements in our clinics. We're making version 2.0 as we speak. We're doing a community based pragmatic trial which is funded by another one through the National Institutes of Nursing Research where we're taking this model of care and we're virtualizing it. So we are have 18 sites across Colorado rural Colorado Wyoming California. We're teaching those community physicians how to do palliative care and then we're using telemedicine to provide virtual house calls with our chaplain or social worker and palliative medicine. And that's trial is halfway through qualitative results from from patients is outstanding and clinicians are also actually finding renewed vigour in their practice neurologists are actually one of the practices with the highest rates of burnout and a lot of people coming into us that they really feel reinvigorated since doing this training. You'll hear from again that we're planning on implementing this model of care in their centers of excellence across the country. And we are very actively working on developing training materials for neurologists to try to meet these gaps in usual care to try to change people's mental models about palliative care as this is a very active area of interest to me. We're going to be doing questions later. Lastly to wrap up on time again want to thank Kirk and Linda Kirk particularly who has been with me from the outset who's been very influential in the way that I think about palliative care and also to thank the quarry and to thank Neeraj. You know this study has direct benefits to me to the Parkinson's community but it's really changed the way that I think about research that we now engage patients in almost every study that we were thinking more about real world outcomes. I was actually on the Hill yesterday educating my Senators and Congress people about Pickering and so I want to thank you a lot for this opportunity. So so far this is turning out to be a dream session from a moderator's perspective. Not only we have good results. We are sticking on time as well. So Megan you're not listening from our researchers to our stakeholders today. What impact of this work. Well consistent with the theme of our meeting. So my name is Megan Feeney I am with the Parkinson's Foundation. I don't have any slides but I was tasked with answering why this is important to the Parkinson's community and talk a little bit about the collaboration and relationship that the Parkinson's Foundation has had with Lindsay on this project. And as Benji and Ray Dorsey talked about earlier today there's currently no cure for Parkinson's disease but our foundation believes that while we're still researching one it's important to improve and maximize care for people living with Parkinson's because I'd been to you already talked about this about a million people in the US and 10 million worldwide who currently live with Parkinson's disease. And so it's really important to maximize their quality of life their independence and it depends. You talked about the sense of purpose and so that's something that was really impactful to us and the work that Vince is doing with palliative care. And then this idea of treating issues in a non-traditional care sense I think is really important. And this multidisciplinary care piece. Parkinson's is a very complex disease and it requires several different specialists and physicians over the course of the progression. And what one person needs early on in the disease they may not need later on. And so this idea of this multidisciplinary approach in this care team this care coordination is so important and so significant to the Parkinson's community. And then I am so excited about this project because we we've worked with Lindsay to host two conference awards in the past to host these working groups in 2015 and 2016 to really identify the needs of this. And then we're excited now to kind of disseminate this throughout our centers of excellence which Dr. Dorsey is actually a part of. And we reach through our centers of excellence. One hundred forty five thousand people with Parkinson's and so we're really excited to to really work towards disseminating this moving forward. And then something I really wanted to talk about in terms of our foundation and the importance of this project is this patient engagement piece. We have a patient engagement program that started in 2008 that trained people with Parkinson's in their care partners to work with researchers throughout the entire research process. And Kirk and Linda Hall were part of that team and part of that that learning institute in 2012 yes 2012 and have been instrumental in actually coming back to learning institutes in from 2016 we had benzene Kirk at the 2016 learning institute demonstrating best practices for relationships for working with people with Parkinson's and researchers and I think this is oftentimes understated but not only designing studies that treat unmet needs of people with Parkinson's but designing studies in a way that minimizes burden on the people enrolled in the study and benzene. Kirk I think you've done a phenomenal job on really identifying this manner in which we can have a study and hand research and gather new information while keeping the study participant and the person with Parkinson's in a place where it's not a burden to them to be a part of that study and that it's actually advantageous to them and there's there's communication throughout the entire process. And so I really I really want to praise the two of you for this this collaboration that you've had and they know been to you've worked with other peer advocates as well and other research advocates or foundation throughout the process. But we're so excited to see the direction that this is going to continue as AAA says as they say one good turn deserves another so we got Amy again sharing some pearls of wisdom with us. Well I want to start by congratulating Pickering for their choice to do these awards and for the outstanding work of the people who are involved at every part of this work for the researchers for their clinical teams that are that are implementing for the people and families. Some say patients some say people in families who are engaged in the work and helping us learn what are the right questions. How should the material look. What are the findings in real life. What is the experience that is now changed. This is incredibly important science. I want to talk first about the work around advance care planning and both of these studies are absolutely stellar. When I think about this particular work around advance care planning this is the first time that I'm hearing about an approach that fully leverages the power of the person in the process. So the reason that I say that is oftentimes these things happen in either a very stressed clinical encounter you know you're in the doctor's office and there's very limited time or someone comes in with a clipboard and takes you somewhere and sits down with you to go through advance care planning and that goes into the record. But the discussion may never have been had in front of the clinician. So there are a lot of stresses around the ways the things you're done and we're learning how do we do this. So this was a survey that was done in advance that was really one on one time for that person to think about what their goals and values are and they're not easy questions. You know the question around quality of life if it's a shorter life or longer life even if there's more challenges to that life the life that you're living these are very different ways of thinking about what the reality of medical care can do it can push people out to a very long life that honestly you know people can be on machines to support their life and so it gets to really the heart of what are the things that we're really thinking about. And I do very much appreciate Dr. Curtis saying that it is also a false dichotomy. So if you live a better life if they actually control the pain and symptoms the research shows that you do actually live longer but there still are situations where we can artificially push out somebodies life in a bad way. So this is the worst case scenario choice. And after that person reviews that that survey and puts in their answers the answers don't just go to the clinician but they go back to the person in advance of that conversation. They don't have to stick to the same answers but can you imagine the power of seeing again what you wanted and bringing that with you. How many people have been in a clinicians office and you suddenly lose your voice. And there really isn't something to kind of spur you what are the three questions that you wanted to ask or talk about. And this is an uncomfortable topic to talk about. This is a prompt given by you to yourself about what you wanted. It's a very different way of operating. It really is leveraging the power of the person. This is very powerful stuff and what did we get from this. The ultimate is that care is more concordance at the end of life. People are getting what they want. That's the ultimate outcome for any of this. But this truly is quite remarkable work in leveraging the power of the person. So I just want to thank you for that. I do also want to note that because part of this work the survey takes place in advance of going into the doctor's office. It also streamlines the time you have with your clinician to be more effective and focused in that encounter. And I do have to say when when you talked about 20 percent 27 percent of clinicians being willing to do this and the other 73 percent saying well I'm not sure I have time. What they don't understand because they didn't do this. And what I probably would have used as a major selling point and I'm sure that this these findings as they move forward into dissemination which is what we want you're going to talk about this is a way to let the power of the person outside of the clinical encounter that time is spent before you come into the office and that way we can be more focused in the office. That's incredible. This is a win win win. So I just want to thank you very much for the extraordinary work that you're talking about from a from a person perspective. Dr. Kluger and team the amazing work around Parkinson's disease and palliative care. So today is Dr. Kluger mentioned most people who do get palliative care. It's usually around the diagnosis of cancer certainly not exclusively. But for those of us like myself who have a cancer diagnosis and certainly advanced cancer we generally speaking have heard about palliative care or might have experienced palliative care. But even within the cancer community where palliative care is so broadly available there still are a lot of clinicians who don't refer to palliative care or refer at the point that they feel that they can't make a difference anymore. Now we'll refer to palliative care and if you heard the message yesterday and if you're watching me up here you know that the benefit of palliative care is to live the good life. I mean it also will help you on end of life but it's to live the good life. And Parkinson's disease is particularly insidious because people don't recognize the difficulties the challenges beyond simply the tremor the loss of function. They don't see the the challenges psychologically to having it. They don't see the challenges to the caregiver. And this is a long term disease. This is something that is is not a short duration it is a long duration. And people can see where they're going it's like watching that you're about to have a car accident for a long long time. So there are a lot of challenges to the family and to the person. And so having this palliative care intervention. I mean you saw already what it did in terms of the outcomes better advance care planning which is incredibly important better end of life care. You know all of the things that you want to see happen happen when you begin to address this as a structure as a part of the disease. You know the care for people with Parkinson's Disease and Related Disorders. This is not only important findings but these are important findings for all of the people who are out there beyond the cancer community. I mean their findings for the cancer community itself on better integration but for any disease they don't just have Parkinson's they don't just have cancer. There's a confluence of diseases of problems that people are having and a wide swath of unaddressed needs that could be better mad if we were to think about how we better integrate these services for people who have these very challenging conditions in the next phase of the work. I guess one of the things that I would think about is knowing that people have this Dr. Kluger so ably mentioned multiple chronic conditions. You know it's hard to find somebody who just has Parkinson's disease and it's hard to find somebody who just has one serious illness. This is a multi morbid world we live in a world of multiple chronic conditions. I'm one of the few I've got one chronic condition but most people it particularly is the age they many. And so how are we going to think about this work and its implications at a systems level across diagnoses. So I actually think that Dr. Kluger has a larger scope of work as yet to do to think about in these same sites. How would the health systems address the use of palliative care across the special days to help people as they navigate multiple chronic conditions so that is your next large scale trial. And let me just say it's gonna be a larger scale trial. Joe I'm sorry I don't mean to spend PCORI money but but there is a bigger scope of work to do. So I just want to say this is extraordinary work. There already are findings that should be moving out tomorrow. And I'm very much appreciative as a person to be able to speak to the power of this particular research. Thanks Amy and then as Amy alluded to I mean one of one of the messages that we also want to reinforce with both Ben C. and Danny stocks was that this work is not limited to people who are actively dying from advancing. Right so it really reinforces the need for integrating these services so patients are different. I'll try the trajectory of a diagnosis of an advance serious illness that could be two years five years eight years could be six months and could also be its applicable end of life but let's not think about this as only applicable to people who are actively in that last phase. And if we do that we're doing a disservice to all of us. So now you're going to hear from Dr. Bill Novelli to put all of this discussion and the larger dialogue happening in this country. So thanks but how do I get to that. Oh we gotta close your presentation. Amy you're taking a shot. Amy. Amy you deserve it. Oh I'm not a I'm not an Apple person person right. She really is. Well I was. Thanks. OK. Thank you Dr. Kluger. OK. Good morning everybody. I'm still Bill Novelli and I am my day job is in the business school at Georgetown where I teach in the MBA program and oversee our global social enterprise initiative. You're going to hear more about Seatac in a minute I'm the co-chair of SeaTac and I mentioned it briefly. I also chair a I should say co-chair a care culture and decision making collaborative at the National Academy of Medicine. And I'm wearing my pink tie today because I serve on the board of the American Cancer Society that's come up a minute ago and it's going to come up again in my remarks. I also want to welcome my colleague Marion Grant who's sitting over there. She's our tech colleague of mine and she is a real champion in the world of palliative care. Now on the road you asked me to talk very briefly about policy and practice overview what's going on. And by way of disclosures we have seen tech has received three funding awards from PCORI. I have a second disclosure as well which is that I too am a big fan of Amy Berman. Now there's an old story going around among gerontologists and it goes like this. We should all live to a ripe old age. Welcome to our 90s and then have it end with a quick bullet fired by a jealous lover. But that's not the way most of us are gonna go into the great beyond. So we need to look at where we are today and the big picture is. And I think this is fair to say that with regard to improving care and outcomes for patients with advanced illness and their caregivers we are making progress we're making progress on the policy and the practice front and a lot is happening on both the federal and the state level and because it's so important because we need more and better evidence to expand access to palliative and advanced illness care. Now SeaTac the Coalition to Transform Advanced Care is a national nonpartisan organization we have about 140 members and they are from health systems payers consumer organizations faith based groups traditional health imperative palliative care organizations and many others. And our goal and I think this is the goal of everybody here and probably everybody in this room is that all Americans with advanced illness care receive comprehensive high quality person centered care that is consistent with their goals and values and honors their dignity and keep that last phrase in mind because we're going to come back to it. So we do a great deal of work in policy advocacy family caregivers support and we support state and community coalitions which I will talk about in a minute. And we have something that we are promoting and advancing it which we call the Advanced Care Transformation index. Now believe it or not in this world of advanced illness and end of life care there is no real set of measurements as to how we're doing. And of course you can't measure progress in any kind of a movement if you don't have the the evidence if you don't have the data. So a moment ago one of our colleagues up here said how many people here would like to die in a hospital. That's one of our ministers place of death. And there are probably 19 or 20 others that we are putting into an index. This is both at the state and the national level so that we can all come to grips with where we stand and where we need to go see tech also has Respecting Choices in our midst now respecting choices began at Gundersen in Wisconsin. But as it expanded they assigned it to us and they said we need you to take on respecting choices. It's about advance care planning. And they said we need to scale this up and that's what we're working on. And then we have a national summit every year to study advanced on this care with people from around the country. We just had our summit a short time ago in Denver. And so that's what SeaTac is and what we do now in terms of federal policy progress. Some legislation has recently passed it's called The Chronic Care Act and it is to extend independence at home. That demonstration to allow Medicare Advantage supplemental benefits and expand the use of telehealth. Now this is really an important piece of work because it opens the door to additional benefits like home based palliative care transportation caregiver support and other things. And then also recently past is the raised caregiver act and does is it instructs a secretary of HHS to develop a national family caregivers strategy. And HHS is working on that now and then having some finalized regulations. Now these are separate and concurrent to the legislation. But that's good because it helps to speed up the process so it allows Medicare Advantage supplemental benefits such as home based palliative care. As I said transportation nutritional services. And this is a small or I should say it's a one regulation but it's encouraging. Palliative care has been excluded from the part D opioid over utilization program. And then there are some really important alternate payment models. We heard earlier that if a physician goes to someone's house Medicaid pay for that. So SeaTac and the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine have worked together to urge testing within each HHS of payment models. And Secretary Azar has confirmed that these are a priority and at all recent national summit which I just told you about CNN I announced that they're going to come out. They're going to come forward very shortly with a home based palliative care demonstration. And we're hoping and we believe that it will be built off the two models that I just mentioned. Now in terms of health payor activity there's some encouraging work going on there as well. So the Center for the Advancement of palliative care or cap C and SeaTac recently sponsored a meeting of 20 plus health plans from around the country that are offering or piloting or considering palliative care services and benefits. And this was unusual and it was very encouraging because you had this roomful of competitors and they were all sitting there talking about what works. How can we share how can we basically work together on this important issue in California Blue Shield now offers home based palliative care as a standard benefit and managed care plans have to offer. I have to also offer those due to recent legislation California as a coalition is truly leading the way and is a operationalize this. The rest of the country is going to be able to do this much faster and there are problems going on in a number of other states with other payers. Now with regard to state coalitions I mentioned that California is ahead of the pack so they have this recent legislation to require managed Medicaid to offer palliative care and SeaTac both monitors and tries to support these state coalitions with information sharing model legislation and other things. California is the oldest of state coalitions. The Massachusetts State Coalition is really making progress. They recently surveyed the state on advanced directives attitudes and they leveraged that to one day serious illness conversation true in carrying out that survey. Oregon is another example of a state coalition at work so Camby is funding needs assessments and developing messaging to promote serious illness care. And as I said there there are various other state coalitions in different stages of development now from a research standpoint as I said earlier we need more and we need better evidence to expand access to advanced illness care and proclivity is investing in comparative effectiveness studies on advance care planning including one using sea tax respecting choices first steps materials. Other studies have PCORI is engaged in is or going to test advanced illness and or palliative care models to see which ones are most effective. And as I said we need more. And it's so gratifying to hear that Victoria's doing this because we need strong evidence to persuade health systems and policy and payer stakeholders to offer these programs and these benefits. Now on that note I want to end up with the blue chair and with Driving Miss Norma. OK so at our 20 17 national summit we had a session around driving Miss Norma. Norma is 90 years old. Her mother excuse me here her son and her daughter in law are what they call themselves professional nomads and they live in a recreational vehicle and they go all over the country. Miss Norma was diagnosed with uterine cancer and a young physician came in and said Miss Norma let me tell you what we're now going to duty and mix. Norma said forget about it. I'm 90 years old. I'm hitting the road and that's what she did. And so for nine months she went all over the country with her dog her son and her daughter in law and Miss Norma basically lived life now. The butcher was featured this year at our summit and the blue chair is about a woman with stage 4 breast cancer. Now this woman was sitting in the doctor's office she was fretting she was worried she was upset because she didn't think that things were going right for her with respect to treatment and a young physician came in and he said to her. As with Miss Norma let me tell you what's coming up. Let me tell you what we're going to do next and impulsively the woman said you see that Blucher sit in it and the doctor sat down and she told her what her goals and her values and her life experiences are and what she wanted. Now in the case of the blue chair she didn't reject treatment as Mr Palmer did. She welcomed treatment but she wanted a different treatment set of options and you heard Amy yesterday. Amy is a health care professional. Amy knows what's going on. She wasn't she wasn't one of these people who is trying to sort this all out. And so in all three cases all three of these patients made different choices. We need more patient and caregiver decision making in care treatment decisions. We need this very much and a lot of this research is going to help us that way. Now doctors don't have to stop active treatment to encourage patients to receive palliative care. But many clinicians are not acting and they're not doing this not referring people as they should. And so that's one of the things that we have to do. We have to work on the condition side and on the consumer demand side and so with that I hope you agree with me that there's lots of progress being made. Thank you very much thank you Bill and thank you again for reminding us about the blue shirt. You know I was at the SeaTac meeting and I said I had the opportunity to share a few remarks and what I had said there that you know victory indeed is one big blue chair because we are in the business of sitting in the blue chair and listening to our stakeholders and their priorities and responding with research based on what we hear. So now it's our opportunity as panelists to sit in the blue chairs literally sitting in the chairs. So for you to share your thoughts perspectives ask questions to our panelists. What is yours. And Amy is going to moderate this session and bring up some chairs so we can have Kirk and Linda up here and I will get off. So everyone we do have microphones on the two outer aisles and this is an opportunity for you to ask questions comment. And so to the right. Thank you. Testing. My you are. I am online. Amy as a fellow nurse I want to say good job. And I I also want to thank you for laying some foundation for what I'm coming I'm going to make. Yesterday you pointed out that we're disease communities would be better served by pre Corey if in the future we have sub awards with a larger more prevalent disease awards to look at whether or not the intervention design works in the world as well. So Dr. Kluger my charge to nurses like to push people no matter what what I want to say to you is yes the non milder symptoms in movement disorders must have attention in these centers of excellence. Where were my husband who has spinal seller that spinal cerebellum attacks year three McCarter Josephs. We go to these centers of excellence and they which also treat Parkinson's so we're talking about the same clinical setting is the common Parkinson's and sees where motor disorders occur. So it's the same docs what what I want to say is that the emphasis on the motor problems and the neglect of the nine motor problems is particularly effective. And my husband has seen this neglect at three different academic health science centers. So it's a common problem. I want you to open my mind to the idea here that in the next 30 years include the word movement disorders. Okay. Same treatment plan same intervention and they measure put differences between the Parkinson's patient and the Mercado up Huntington's disease. The other movement disorder patients the knowledge will be compounded. Now you have already Dr. Kluger been turned on to the National Institute of Nursing Research Funding in palliative care. I saw that they had it for rare diseases. Okay. They have palliative care research for rare diseases you could do a comparative effectiveness not between sites but paternal conditions. So I just see your future for dissemination and implementation research crossing diseases as well as sites. And I hope you will do that. And thank you so much for your work. So just to summarize this really. You're welcome to take a seat. So this is really an opportunity to take existing research and embed rare diseases within it. And we appreciate that comment. Thank you so much. Would you speak to that actually and if you noticed that I didn't highlight it but we made a decision early on in this trial to include progressive supra nuclear policy a multiple system atrophy cortical based on degeneration Lewy body disease because from a palliative and supportive care standpoint they're not that different. And so we are doing exactly what you said we're doing a subgroup analysis. We actually put forward a grant that is older general diseases including ataxia because the problems that people with these illnesses experiences people I think supersedes the minor differences they may have in terms of diagnosis. So I'm right with you on that. But this is a point that every person in every piece of research needs to take up and this is really a best practice to be modeled on. So if you go back and look at these slides where it says PD R D it's it's Parkinson's disease and related disorders so that way they could look at some of these rare conditions as well. Next question where are we there. Hi Neal. Hi. Hi Amy. So Dr. Curtis Dr. Kluger brilliant research that is directly applicable which is why we're here. Dr. Kluger I would like to hear a little bit more detail about your intervention. How is it that you get docs that are willing to participate. How do you transfer knowledge between docs. It's it's that level of detail that I think we need to understand in order to propagate the kind of intervention that you've shown works. Yeah yeah. And if you're interested in a lot more detail there's a article in annals of palliative medicine on implementation of outpatient neurology palliative care that has it sold out. It has all of our checklists it has a checklist for the social worker for the chaplain for the nurse. And so I'd have to check that out. But briefly for a current study you know we had groups that were highly motivated that were at academic centers that wanted to do this. We formalized that. I think the use of checklists was actually improved all of our care and helped us to focus on the things that were important in those checklists were developed with the help of patients and caregivers for the future implementation study which may get kind of more to your question how do we motivate people in the community for that study where we have 18 sites. I don't think we're at the 27 percent level but I think about you know a third of the people that we contacted in the community did not want to participate in the study for various reasons sometimes around palliative care. Sometimes around time and so in that trial which is really a pragmatic implementation trial we're working on models to try to make it time efficient for physicians one of the things that I actually did to share and then we can move on to other questions and I can talk to you afterwards is that we're doing and I do for myself is that you have to be very intentional with what hat you're wearing. So when I'm a neurologist and I'm seeing a new Parkinson's patient and I'm not wearing my powder hat I forget to do advance care planning just like everybody else. And so one of the things that we're talking to people about is that you know if you're a community neurologist you have a different talk for epilepsy you have a different talk for migraines you have a different talk for Parkinson's and that you need a primary palliative care hat and that strategy is working in our community physicians are saying that they love putting on that hat and that they've just know that they are going to schedule a separate visit for that just like they would schedule a separate visit if they needed to talk about epilepsy surgery or something else that's complex and important. So we're going to move over to this side of the room. Hi I'm Natalie Blake I need director of program services for the multiple sclerosis foundation and I definitely can see this benefiting those with M.S. It's a discussion that really doesn't ever take place and you know palliative care has been thought to be something like end of life care in the last two years. I lost both my mother and oldest son to cancer and we never even were offered palliative care. So it's something that I think you know does cross the bounds of all of the disease states. And I think it's something that we should talk about and disseminate more to the community. It could also be quickly to that next week actually I'm gonna be part of the Center for Multiple Sclerosis coalition is hosting and meeting specifically to make national guidelines around palliative care. So we already see patients with multiple sclerosis in our center but it is on the map and hopefully we'll become and that's really our mission is that we want to raise and improve standards of care for people neurologic illness. If you go to a cancer center you've got a chaplain. You have a book club you have you know a summer camp. We have all of these things if you know that mass if you have Alzheimer's disease if you have a loss you don't get any of those things. So Dr. Kluger if you don't mind. Kirk I would like if you wouldn't mind to share a little bit about what you learned going through the process and serving as a patient in this body of research. Well it's really been chance of a lifetime I would say to be involved in this kind of work because I figure it was Amy that spoke to something like a slow motion train wreck which is life with Parkinson's and not to focus on the negative side of it because there's a whole lot of great things that are part of everybody's life. But it is a reality. And to be able to play some part and bridging the gap between the medical community and what patients are feeling and thinking and to devise something that's going to make a difference in the lives of people with this disease is a homerun. I couldn't ask for anything better. So that's what I feel. So Kirk would you agree that we need to move this out to people who have M.S. and other kinds of conditions that you shouldn't just be the pallid palliative care needs to move out broadly. I gave the example of a dear dear friend with everybody she had Parkinson's diagnosis who switched to Lewy body disease. She was unable in Philadelphia to get palliative care and that was maybe three years ago. So absolutely. So I'm going to cherry pick the next question. I would like to go to a question specific to the advance care planning work. Do we have a question on that. Thank you. So Amy I'm joined now from chief in medicine and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. So I loved your talk yesterday as well as the discussion here today. So in our clinical setting about a cancer patient either with advanced cancer early stage cancer wanting to try or her cancer treatment. We wonder whether that can help with cancer or so I think it is always a struggle. And as a more doing more peer query type of research I find there's a there's such a tension among colleges say there's a greater need for pushing therapeutic trials more teamwork with a subpoena from the patient so there is the proportion of patients who are like you and even with early stage which could be potentially very dangerous. I want to sort of pick your perspective as also a researcher as you deal with chronic advanced planning is shall we always listen to patients or when there's a poor peer to to be a little bit authoritarian. I don't know whether there's a clear answer and how do we study it. Because I think it's unlikely to be one size fits all. And also some of the challenge with Pequot funding it is short term and I think a lot of oncologists will see I want hard data survival. Are you hurting my patient by allowing them to take more active control. So I feel like as integrative medicine physician I don't have the answers or I'm looking for to your perspective how we answer those questions. So if it's all right. Dr. Curtis and I will both answer this question. And I'm so curious how we're going to answer this question. So you know I think about you know when you when you buy a house you go to people who know houses realtors and they can tell you everything you need to know and take you through choices but they don't tell you this is going to be your house. If there is a part that is still about the person making the decisions around the care and treatment and there is a very delicate dance in advance care planning. And I would even say kind care planning. You know the choices that you're going to make even upstream of the advance care planning and it's the same thing when you go to a car lot. I mean honestly I would never go in and they say this is the car that you're buying. And yes they have much greater expertise than I and I I I heard mention that because I'm a nurse I knew what to do and I do have to say I'm not an anthropology nurse. I felt totally adrift. But I did know what I felt was important and that is so important that we are part of the mix and that there is no right decision without knowing that piece. There can't be. So you know it's not about your telling somebody because you know better you actually are completely blind to one piece of information that you can only get through the advance care planning process. So perhaps trying to add to that well I guess what I would add to that is to say that in answer to the question do you always listen to the patient. Absolutely. I always listen to the patient. But one of the things that I heard yesterday that I think is really important is that sometimes we're asking patients and families to participate in decisions that are incredibly complex and they may want our help and support in making these difficult decisions. They may even want us to make these decisions. And I think that we need to be willing to do that. I think that we unfortunately trained a generation of physicians who felt like their job was to say here are the choices now you have to decide because we're all about patient autonomy and that's not what all patients and families want. You know I I love the checklists yesterday from Dr. House. I think it was Eric Haas is that right. The in the E.R. where he was talking about patients who come in with chest pain but are basically well and one of the options was let my doctor decide. And you can imagine coming in with horrible chest pain low blood pressure you're not thinking clearly you're incredibly stressed and people may say you know what. I want you know I want you to understand who I am and what's important to me but I need help with this decision. And I think to go on day is actually written beautifully about as a physician bringing in one of his children who was seriously ill and just wanting the doctors to decide not wanting to be put in that position. And so I think as we build the system of supporting patients and families we have to be able to work with that full spectrum. Some people want to be in the driver's seat and they want to make all the decisions. Some don't. And we have to understand how to help them through that. So I'm also just going to ask if Patricia would be willing to comment as a participant in this. I support Randy's approach. I think that my mother was very a very great self advocate and came in with a bazillion questions and thoughts and ideas and and she wanted to hear Randy's as well. And so I think that working together asking listening on both sides is critical. And it working well and thank you for your participation in this important work. Do you mind if I speak Harkins Of course. So I think you bring up a really important issue that in Parkinson's is a community organization what we've noticed is if in the appointment the appointments aren't going well and communication isn't going well they'll find that information elsewhere. People with Parkinson's at times can be very proactive and want to. They want to improve their quality of life whether or not that discussion is happening at the appointment. And so at times it works out for the better if they're in a solid community. But then at other times it goes to the Internet and you you have non evidence based alternatives to treatment and so it's a big problem if if we're really not having those conversations at the appointment that's equal and what the expectations are. And I think that also speaks to this important and multidisciplinary care so that if one person may not have the solution they can refer out to something else where they can have the conversation or take the time. We hear from allied health professionals all the time that you know I have an hour to talk with someone with Parkinson's whereas a neurologist may only have 15 minutes. And so really this this having people with Parkinson's in this case know that Michael medical treatment isn't siloed and that there is a real need for this multidisciplinary care so that we can approach all of these questions that a person with Parkinson's may have and really prioritize the various goals that they have through a multidisciplinary approach. I want to get a quick check. We we're actually over time but we get on the break for 15 minutes so we can continue the discussion either formally or informally is totally up to you guys because I'm I just love what's going on here. Thank you so much. So Louis I thank you all for being here. I hope we can continue this dialogue beyond this room. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. 