 FAUSTO: So, we will do our best to reinforce what is on the screen or kind of highlight what is on the screen to make sure that you also can kind of follow along with us, but we are trying to make sure that this does have a bidirectional approach to the information sharing and learning. We have a lot of great expertise on the phone, and we want to make sure everybody has an opportunity to get to know each other as much as possible using this type of interface and this kind of distant-learning aspect. But again, obviously, our ideas can most definitely cross-pollinate through these platforms making sure that nothing, no small idea, no kind of bubbling strategy, everything here especially in this kind of topic around adult SEL and implementation of social and emotional learning. You know, we're all really having to put ourselves in a place of resetting our understanding of a lot of these concepts maybe even our preconceived notions around some of these things to really kind of reset and start bringing into practice what we know is happening. And we're going to unpack that today. So, okay, so audio, chat and then we're going live there. Any technical issues just please let us know through the chat box. Next slide, please. We have a jam-packed agenda and not a light topic to unpack together. I would say to introduce with each other, really, really the purpose of this type of learning experience through the Department of Ed and really, just a broader understanding of the field is really that again. We're just really starting to reset ourselves to the understanding both around the importance of SEL. But really that across the adult learning curve around the implementation of SEL as it both emerged and kind of took off in our field is that we really are still finding that the real big element that is necessary is for adults to really ground themselves in the work. And we're going to take it back even to the idea of vocabulary. We're getting a lot of traction in the field one about once someone establishes a framework to follow to help measure, what is the understanding of the adult terminology that they're applying to implement? And then most explicitly, what are they looking to measure? Because we'll talk a little bit about the importance of knowing what the term is and what you're looking to see in these types of SEL settings and learning contexts that are contextual, and that is a bit of a barrier itself. So, we're going to unpack that. We're going to talk about some of the emerging and established research around adult SEL and even talk about how the interconnection of adult SEL and this idea of emotional intelligence, which is really how we've always talked about the adult graduation let's say of SEL to this higher cognitive meta understanding. And we are going to hold ourselves a bit to the fire there because one of the key strategies to adult SEL is to say that you are committed to continuous improvement both of yourself and your practice in the learning setting and that. We have a couple tools that we're going to highlight that helps us as educators, practitioners, push our practice forward and not just leave it to opinion, also to create safe spaces for this type of work within our group and dynamic to make sure that we all can be a little vulnerable about what we know and what we don't know and how we can all help each other move along along the way. We're going to really bring home some of the resources you have in-house and in Indiana, which has really that you got the science of happiness course, which is then a really great intentional practice for self-care, and we're going to talk about how the implications of that with adult SEL. And then really, after you kind of see that, we're going to push you all to kind of really take some actions to this work and see how this fits again into your own context, both as say as an individual and then obviously interpersonally with your groups and team that you work with on a daily basis. And with that, I'm going to take a mindful moment myself because that was a lot, right. Sometimes, we have to check ourselves, and so, I'm going to go ahead, and I want to really get to know who's kind of with us today. So, we're going to go ahead and go to the next slide, please, and we're going to do our best to do some welcome introductions of those who are with us on the platform this afternoon. So, again, that is me. I'm the base in the place, Fausto Lopez. I'm here in Chicago, snowy Chicago, and I am here with Christy Berger, who is on phone, and I don't know, Christy, if you want to chime in and give them a reprieve from my voice real quick. CHRISTY: No, thanks, Fausto. This is Christy Berger from Department of Education. We also are enjoying a snowy day here in downtown Indianapolis. FAUSTO: Great, great and excuse my post-hasteness. I'm super excited about the topic about this type of work, and I know that we only have an hour to get it all in, and so, I will be mindful of my pace and my speed because it most definitely comes out in my passion. We're going to jump right into the interface piece here. You could go to the next slide. Oh, I'm sorry. Welcome and introduction, this is a second webinar of an ongoing series, but we just wanted to make sure that everyone understood that the recording and the content of this webinar is not dependent on the first webinar. But we want to make sure that if you are utilizing this to again, disseminate some of the broader understanding of this work, maybe you just need a little. You like podcasts and like to hear voices through your earphones. We record all of these, and we have a link to the webinar here if you also wanted to roll this out as a potential ongoing professional passive learning experience in-house or within your resources. Let's see here. So, you have links available to you if you want to listen to webinar one, next slide please. Here is that slide that I've been alluding to of getting to know who's on the phone. So, we're going to go ahead and open up a poll, and if you can just kind of quickly let us know which role there best describes you and if other, then please go ahead and enlighten us with what it is that you do within just within your space. And if we have enough respondents, I think we're about at 50. We can go ahead and see who we have with us today. Okay, so we have fellow teachers in the room. Let's see here. We have some district and school administrators, which is always great. We have some student services, and just because it's always great to just know who's the different expertise, and we could also try to get into the differentiation across roles, but we also know that this work in SEL is ecological. We know it takes various different inputs and various different roles including external vendors. So, we're just happy to see even that other, and again, this may be close. I guess there is no space to designate other. Some folks want to maybe put it the chat what that other is for them just as we can kind of get a broader understanding. That would be great, but not super necessary. We just want to make sure that we understand who is with us today. We're going to go ahead and close this poll and thank you all for taking time today to kind of join us and kind of in this on this trip. We're going to move over to the next prompt. We want to just kind of get a baseline understanding of the day, not necessarily of your work or your profession, but how well you understand the concept around SEL. So, again this is the time to be honest about where you are, and it'll be a first attempt to collect some data for readiness let's say. Okay, we can go ahead and just let's see - see what everybody's broad understanding is here. Great, so we have some – we have some folks who are self-efficacious, who are claiming that they have good understanding. We have some folks who say that they know little and then, oh, we have some experts, which I'm always happy to unpack and well, again what I love about this work is that we cannot settle in this work. This work is dynamic. So, I love the fact that regardless of where we feel we are, we just know that we are all dependent on keeping to push the work and our understanding and the application specifically when we're trying to get it into the work with our young people because that is where differentiation lives. And it's what is going to keep us on our toes. Thank you all so very much for giving us and getting us such a good understanding of who's in the room and where we're starting. And then so just for the sake of good learning theory, we're going to ground ourselves to again working definitions that comes from the Collaborative of Academic and Social and Emotional Learning or our friends over at CASEL you might hear. And CASEL and them have been at the forefront of establishing both the importance, the broader understanding, the necessity for tools and resources to build both adult capacity in this social-emotional space and obviously, the young people's capacities around skill and competency acquisition. So, what is it? It is a process through which children - and adults, which is what I love - again this idea of this is not a one-directional way of thinking about learning anymore. This is about how this is – there is a duality to the way this knowledge sharing. And let's call it data transfers and is shared across both a practitioner and a young person and how we all have to really start training ourselves and our antennas to be up all the time and pay attention to all the indicators and different types of information that are very critical to how we roll this work out. So, what does that look like? It's the process of acquiring and applying the knowledge of these skills and attitudes and competencies, pushing towards positive goals. Because you know that we are counteracting a lot of deficit situations in our ecologies and at times, we are both helping young people navigate those and ourselves navigate those because that is one other part of why we're here today, but is also something that we cannot discount. Show empathy, which again is not one directional, and we have to unpack what that looks like, especially in the hustle and bustle of the educational systems that we inhabit because at times, time is of the essence, and some of those connections get discounted because of the pace. So, that's the challenge, and it shouldn't be just an excuse to say it's too hard to do. We're really trying to leverage positive relationships and what do those look like? And we're getting a lot, more and more like very crystal clear research about what are those, how we get into these power-sharing relationships with young people. The [00:11:35 Hertz] Institute is doing a lot of great work there with the developmental relationship, and then something that I'm still working with at 40 years old is not only what constitutes a good, responsible decision, but how do I make sure I make better mistakes tomorrow? Because it's an imperfect world. We're imperfect people, and it's about making sure that we are just mindful within our practice that at times - that we're working with as a definition of SEL. Next slide please, so another quick poll just to just to kind of think through. When you think about adult social and emotionally, how much would you say you think about that? Is it something that you think about all the time? Maybe again, some of our experts self-assess themselves on an ongoing basis. Just talk about it a little bit about how you put yourself into the reflection around your own adult SEL, understanding, skills, applied competencies at your age, and we won't ask you to put your age in the chat. All right, and if we have enough people need to broadcast, we can go ahead and broadcast. Let's see how – we're seeing, okay, thanks. We already have folks on the phone who are committed, and this going to be great because we're going to solicit you all that this will be those who think about it often at the backend today to really have some cross-sharing with each other say, How are you doing that? You know, that's another big part that not only has to happen. What are we already doing that we can share across our fields to make sure that we're also not reinventing the wheel around how we keep this at the forefront of our brains, but also not get overwhelmed by this? This is especially when you start scratching the surface of SEL, which in education, we've already referenced as the psychosocial development of young people. Especially, nowadays, when you throw concepts around trauma and residual trauma, we you know. There is already a big factor to not only how we're thinking about it, but then how we're taking care of ourselves as we do that and we have a great resource with that today that we're going to highlight for you all that you all have already available to you. With that said, we're going to go to the next one because we're going to jump into hopefully a fun way of introducing terminology to all learners at all ages and all expertise because we all like games. So, there's a game that maybe some of you may have heard of, of course, called Jeopardy. You know, big ups to Alex Trebek. We are going to play it quick, quick because of our time together is short and we have a lot to do, but we wanted to ground ourselves in terminology. You are all in Indiana already blessed with having your own framework to align around the applied SEL choices that are out in our field because that's one of the other parts that is very bewildering to a lot of the systems that we support that there is a lot of framework. Well, in Indiana, you have taken the brunt of already aligning yourself to your own framework, and it's always good to just again ground ourselves, and I love this, the concept of grounding or rooting ourselves because you guys have used a tree. So, what you're going to see for those who are in front of you are definitions a la Jeopardy, and we're going to ask you or challenge you all to use your chat box. So, get your fingers ready, and you're going to see a definition of a Indiana already framework SEL skill competency, and we're going to ask you to name it in the chat as fast as you can, and because we're limited on time, as soon as we see it, we're going to move forward. So, we're going to go ahead and try this out with the first definition. Can we get the first definition? Here we go. The ability to know your emotions, and how to affect thoughts and actions that help build self-confidence, self-esteem, empathy for others, and insights that help recognize strengths and areas of growth, growth. And Christy, you cannot play. You can see it in sight - CHRISTY: Yeah, yeah, but I see someone that got it. FAUSTO: I see Jessica Yoder got it, ding, ding, ding, nice job. Thank you, so we're looking at insights. Next, you can go ahead and click, yeah. So, there lives in your tree in Indiana insight. So, again this is – well, okay, next. The ability to have body awareness and recognize sensations in your body, which is an important skill for managing transitions, changing routines, increasing alerts. We are ready. I couldn't even finish. Okay, we got sensory-motor integration, ding, ding, ding wonderful. Again, it lives at the base of your tree. All right, we're moving. We're moving. The ability to recognize and manage emotions as well as build positive self-control, self-discipline and in – who needs that? Yeah, self-regulation, we all need that even us adults I'm sure. You could think about maybe your partner at home who might need that. This is why it's a process of learning. This does not end. It continues almost to the point where we are not here anymore. All right, let's go with the next one here, the ability to work well others including group and teamwork environment using positive communication. I think everybody got it, ding, ding, ding, collaboration. Yeah and we throw that word around. Collaboration just doesn't happen, and one of the best things about training young people through the continuum now is that they're going to inherit a different place of collaboration hopefully in their future that we didn't get to experience. All right, let's see the next one, thank you, collaboration. Okay, here we go. The ability to make constructive choices, analyze decisions and apply critical inquiry skills that are necessary to approach learning. There you go. You have critical thinking and a huge component, another term that is thrown out there inquiry, questions, the scientific method where all learning starts and takes root and flourishes, wonderful. Let's push it to the next one. The ability to have strong social awareness, including the ability to take on perspectives of others and empathize with people, thank you. It's connection, perfect. Again, we always talk about connections. How do we get connected? The ability – next, the ability to demonstrate cognitive flexibility, willingness to learn, perseverance, adaptability, perfect, the importance of mindset, right. Carol Dweck's work was foundational here, really enlightening people. And if you are a negative Nancy, sorry Nancys on the phone, if you are constantly bringing a negative attitude to the forefront of your experiences and your relationship, your fixed mindset could grind you down, could hold you down and be challenging all of us as educators to apply growth mindset. And I would say to our young people through our careers and our life. The idea there is to not get stuck, and we'll talk about why that is so important, all right, thank you all for taking a quick second to do that. I'm going to contextualize really quickly before we get into the importance of how that creates a bit of safety. You might say, "Okay, that was pretty basic Fausto." Great, well, we have had some enlightening experiences rolling out some PD and capacity building with educators. Because one of the big things here around the importance of SEL is this idea of owning that you may not know something that you may have forgot something from that workshop you took way back when or that master's level class that you took a long time ago, and that there really was no opportunity to kind of do that or apply it. So, this about, again, how we structure and create safety and go back to our - a formative approach to say, At times, we may know the definition of that, but did I apply it in my work? And who do I have as safety net in my team who can – if I can be most vulnerable with and can hold me accountable in this work? Because we all have bad days and more and more, that is becoming the critical importance of this SEL is to understand that we're imperfect and even though our field wants us to be as perfect as possible, we have to really battle with the dissonance of that within our profession. So, let's go into the importance of SEL, because it's not a light topic, and it's extremely critical and foundational to the implementation of this work and as I alluded to, even the measurement, and are we reaping the benefits of this hard work? The next slide, please. Give everybody a second, just maybe kind of take in again more words on the screen about what is it? What is this adult SEL? Now, I'm trying to model over here by breathing, taking a second and not always to challenge your own pace, but challenge how you're presenting a lot of information at times. The word application of this lives from moment to moment and context to context, and as individuals, we're dealing with things fluidly differently at times, which is a part of the challenge. But at the end of the day, we want to model these prosocial behaviors, and those prosocial, we have to press a little bit on prosocial because what the opposite of that is antisocial. So, this idea of trying to promote the positive, already understanding that potentially, and we usually have to live in reflection here about where how we all were educated or conditioned within education settings and at times, it wasn't always very positive. Again, no judgment to those who were before us, but that's where we're trying to challenge the status quo of that is to say that we now know that learning just doesn't miraculously happen, and that the brain needs to feel lots of different types of [00:21:43 fasci] to be open, cognitively. Start being in a place of learning and acquiring knowledge, and half of that is just starting with labeling emotion. It's amazing to see these young people more and more at times understand and be able to label emotions, and I'm going to own this, at times more than I can label emotions and again, it's pushing ourselves through their application as something like a mood meter of like where? I wish I had a mood meter starting in fifth grade. I would potentially way more articulate about how I'm feeling versus I had to learn that a lot longer, a lot deeper in my own developmental trajectory. How do we get into these positive relationships? How do we keep them? How do we advocate for ourselves, really trying to push that our young people know how to have self, develop self-efficacy. Because at the end of the day, we're really going back to this Maslow's hierarchy of human needs and how we really traverse that very steep pyramid of development to make sure that we get to our most best authentic self up at the top of that pyramid. And a lot of us are still working on getting up that very steep pyramid. I'm working on it, and then how do we apply those self-care practices that we alluded to? This is tough work. This is grueling work when we think about the challenge of differentiating now between all these little psychologies that are looking at you bright eyed and bushy tail and are critical. You are a critical component to their development. What does that look like? And thus, how do we battle that residual threat, that secondary trauma depending on what happens when you start getting into the context of young people and breaking down what is challenging them and empowering them to deal with that themselves? There is a lot of storytelling in that. There is a lot of qualitative data there that at times, can trigger ourselves as adults, and thus, we need to more and more and more hold ourselves accountable to how are we feeling when we unpack some of these very both basic and very deep things with our young people and the adults that are dealing with it? And then obviously, the environmental supports, those are the school climate more and more related to the conditions for learning, and that again, that just doesn't happen, and it takes everyone in the learning setting; not just the teacher. It takes the peers. It takes all those adults and which is why we're emphasizing the training of all adults in both child development and safe, good practices that support young people in thriving. So, it's not not important, next. Now, in our field, we have again, a lot of folks. Really, really intelligent, brilliant people are trying to compartmentalize, well, how else does look like in play, Fausto? Sounds great, but the idea here is I still have to show up to work, and I still need to get through my lesson plan, and we need to make sure we get through this stuff. So, again, we're trying to push this capacity building as professionals to say, "Well, just again, this is where it could live." SEL just unpack it. Social emotional learning, well, the social aspect lives in how do we integrate grouping strategies, how we create voice and choice, how we challenge ourselves to not be so potentially rigid in the pace so that we are providing that warmth and support, how we're allowing young people to share a little power with us around our disciplinary strategies. At times, this also lives within our systems that us as practitioners once we start grounding ourselves in what this is going to take is that that also creates leadership opportunities for us as practitioners to hold accountable our systems above us to say, Hey. This is what everyone is telling us I'm supposed to do, but I can't do that based off of the policies and procedures we might currently have. We need to maybe look to be more restored, and that is where we start developing critical masses in this work that are also super critical to how we roll this out and can be a critical component to implementation and thus, fidelity to walking this already rigid at times strict line. And then instruction, one of the best things around SEL is that it's created an opportunity for us all as educators to one, think about our role as educators and two, think about what learning I guess looks like and what it should look like. And for a long time, this idea about like what does it look like to actually instruct SEL? Is it a 15-minute moment of SEL versus is it just alignment that SEL if we go back to learning theory is a way – is just how learning should happen? It should happen in a social context. It should look at how it's happening to them emotionally so we know where their cognitive disposition is to acquire the information so that then we can differentiate the information or the support. And then the learning is intrinsic to both, which is why CASEL calls itself the Collaborative for Academic and Social Emotional Learning. And for those who might pay attention to what the Aspen Institute came out with, which was this amazing kind of push around the science of learning and development is also to reshape or kind of ratify that learning is changing. We are in a new age of information, and we have to keep up and be dynamic, and SEL is dynamic in its nature. If we can go to the next slide, please, we're going to come back to this. So, now we're going to label again. We're going back to the five competencies that we call the CASEL five, but at the end of the day, that's where we want to start with our own adult SEL skills or understanding because that's where we are. We know we're grown. We know we're adults here, but that doesn't mean and shouldn't put us past at least double checking where we feel that we live here and how that affects all of our life and all of our relationships specifically those professional relationships and obviously, the relationships with our young people. Perfect, all right, we're going to move on to the next slide, please. Now, we got the research. This isn't just Fausto's opinion. We have again more and more it is an opportunity to really crystallize the importance of this not just theoretical, but actually more and more empirical and really finding that those educators who reflect that are having an easier time with classroom management. We could talk about the implications of that, but the idea there is self-management of your own emotions, of your own expectations, of your own case of what's happening. And the way that your learners or adult learners in this setting are adapting to that can change the way that you shape how you could get cues for the young people and how you move them forward through the learning process. Again, it doesn't just happen, lots of strategies, and maybe we can unpack some of those and how that can work. Basically, again, a little bit more organized. We used to talk about the term intentionality that if you bring an intentional aspect, are being kind of premeditated about what you know the pitfalls can be with individual learners, with different times of the day, with different aspects of what's happening in the context of young people. By paying attention to different forms of data what's happening in their lives, whether or not again, we go back to like what's happening at home to what's happened in the hallway to what is happening in their own developmental angst. Half of that is, again, understanding it and leveraging it as data and data that these key informants don't just regularly and open up and just give away just to most adults. So, that's where it goes back to the importance of becoming authentic in those relationships. So, young people, one, feel safe, but also are prepared to give you those type of valuable insights to their lives that we can leverage in their learning trajectory, next slide, please. All right, so here's the really great one. I love this for those who want to know the citations of where this all comes from. This idea more and more that SEL is influencing the quality of student-teacher relationships, just talked about that. Those connections don't just happen. Classroom management doesn't just know what's going on and be at the pulse of our input of our young people, of our assets to make sure that we can affect this in the way to be as ahead of any situations as possible, and as we do it as a unit, it can then change school climate. We now know that if you come with high levels of stress, where now you have school systems providing sometimes massages and different ways to decompress, because we know stress is one of the biggest killers in the United States for many other reasons than what we do. But the idea here is we want to try to bring that down, and we don't want to contribute to that dataset in our field because it negatively affects our mental health, our well-being, our satisfaction, thus impacting turnover and obviously, outcomes both proximal outcomes and direct outcomes. And if we can do it and implement it again as a unit, have consistency both for the young people's sake and for our own sanity, then we start talking about how communication, transparency, trust starts being developed in our team. And that's research that has existed forever in organizational psychology of how you empower teams to do their best and thus, boost outcomes, which in our field is student performance. And the biggest piece both for implementation and evaluation, which is why it's really great. I'll go back to definitions and talk about what it means to me versus what it might mean to you, it might mean to other folks on your team. But at the end of the day, if we're defining and thus, if I – and thus training our eyes to identify based off our own internal definition what we think self-management is, that everyone is going to be observing and thus, measuring that potentially different. We need to ground ourselves in the definition so that when we're looking at it, we're making the right attribution. So, this is really about working smart not hard. If we can get that tough work out of the way, then we can move forward in a unified manner, next slide please. And so, this is the key part that's going to transition us to the importance and to the sharing across us as practitioners of how we take care of ourselves because at the end of the day, I hate to be that researcher that says, "This is what you should do. You guys should go to the gym after work, and you should go join yoga." Because I know that context matters and not everyone has the same capability and time at work or sanity to do it, but we have to push ourselves to do it because we now know that that type of data and that putting it off to next month to 'til summer is impacting the overall implementation of that skill. It's specific - and thus burnout and thus, consistency in the lives of young people in communities. So, this is going to get deep, but a lot of them used to folks coming in and out, and one of the biggest levers in psychology is consistency because if not, you create confusion. You can create dissonance. So, the big issue here is to try to be as consistent as possible and show up and be your best self and most authentic self as possible. Now, this is – I love this Reyes et al. because it's just really interesting. It gives you kind of a polar - like a comparison. So, everyone, take a look at that last bullet really quickly. So, if you are mandated to implement a curriculum or a strategy or a group or something related to SEL, but you didn't cultivate your own practices or teacher, teach those - the young people's social emotional skills actually worsened. And I again, it would be interesting to get at the method, but probably some form of confusion like oh, I don't know what that is, and that's what we hear from young people all the time is again is that consistency. Why is so Mr. Lopez so cool and patient, and takes time with us and does that, but you know, Mrs. Reyes is always screaming at us and her scowl and always looking? Again, young people are in tune with that. They are such great data collectors because their ears and antennas are up, and they catch all the nuance in this work. And so, more and more, it really gets into how we train ourselves to think about our cues, our own biases. There are trainings now that are pushing us to our even levels of interaction and how we get to get to eye level with our learner, how we change our tone or check our tone at times as adults when we address young people. But again, that stuff just doesn't happen. And we're going to get into some resources that you guys have already available to you all to help you push your understanding and application of this at your own pace, which is also what I like is that it's not the expectation that you're just going to get this and be done with it tomorrow, next slide please. Great, so real quickly we're going to get into some kind of a interaction here around an assessment tool. What you have in front of you is a tool that is already referenced in your general SEL toolkit for Indiana, and it's something that AIR and great teachers and the Center for Great Teachers and Leadership developed explicitly for educators in classrooms to have a safe way of thinking through these concepts. And so, the self-reflection tool specifically breaks down teaching practices and the social-emotional competencies that you already bring to the table and puts you in a place of reflection to keep pushing yourself professionally in this work. And with that, we are actually - and there is a link in the chat box for those who may already want to kind of interact with it. That would be me. I would've done that, and we are going and going to get instead of just kind of giving you the overview, we're going to let you interact with some of the items because it'll get us to get to know each a little better in this digital platform on the next slide, please. So, this is really again always highlighting the importance of us having to be very in the front of our thinking about how we're implementing the practices and how it's influencing or impacting our young people and so, that we divided it to be something that is a formative assessment, a formative just quick way. Then we have seen different systems implement this tool in different ways because it is relatively comprehensive. So, it's something that you can take from page one to page I think there's a lot of pages or you can actually look at the various domains and create a conversation starter. So, this has been used in various different ways in various different PDs and communities practice to at times, get the conversation rolling, or if you want to create it as a form of data collection, it - we were very thoughtful about the development in that. And it could lend itself to some more structured way of tracking PD, next slide please. Perfect, so here's our opportunity now. We're going to open up a poll, and we'd like you to assess yourself and respond. So, when I respond to misbehavior by considering pupil-specific social, affective, cognitive, and environmental factors that are associated with occurrences of the behavior, phew. I respond to misbehavior by considering pupil-specific social, affective, cognitive, and environmental factors that are – we could have a whole session on that one statement, but go ahead and just let us know where you fall in that gradient, please. So, you either do not implement this practice, you struggle with implementing that practice. You implement it reasonably well or towards that you are our expert and ready to write a book. All right, let's see. Let's see the results here, I general – oh, wonderful. Now the best thing about this type of tool and why it could be from item to item if you have a good kind of self-reflection buddy in your school or in your setting or – and you do it more structured within a kind of adult setting of learners is great. Because at the end of the day, it's always great to have your own opinion of yourself, but then you want to ratify that with evidence and those. That's where the conversation gets rich. You know, you can always crosscheck because we do know that we all have socially desirable responses at times. So, I'm super doing it really well. Great, you're doing it really well. Why don't you model that for the other teachers? So, you can leverage all this information and just kind of quick conversation for the betterment of all the capacity-building strategies and activities you may already be doing in your work. All right, thank you all for doing that and for being honest. We're going to go to the next one here around teacher language. I let my students know how their efforts lead to positive results with specific affirmations, and if you've got those, please share some specific affirmations. So, I think we all need those on our daily basis. So, go ahead and rate yourself that, and the scale is I do not influence it. I struggle. I implement it reasonably well. I implement it well, or I'm killing the game. Alright, let's see the results here. We're just going to keep it quick because it's just a baseline. I want you to say - So, we got a large percentage say thank you so much for being honest that you're implementing it reasonably well. Some of you are all are indicating you guys are doing this practically; I mean pretty well already, and another great understanding of how you can read those data. What's the difference? Half the folks talk about the difference between reasonable and doing it or feeling that they do it generally well. What they do they do? At times, the aha moment is that they might be doing similar or exact same things, and it's just about how they feel about it. That's again the trust, communication, sharing of practices that we want to open up in our field. And at times, I know it's finding the time to do it, but this at times, is going to allow different ways of getting that information, getting our teams to think about it, but not necessarily having to make it so crazy and so, a high accountability structure. Okay, let's see the next. Let's see the next item and see how we're doing here. Responsibility and choice, I make sure students make the connection between their choices and potential consequences. All right, go ahead and let's see this. Go ahead and broadcast, yeah, great. So, we are in a – what I love about this is that at any point, in any type of data that we get here, this allows us the opportunity to leverage the experience in the room, and at times, we don't know the experience we have unless we do these type of at times almost basic processes to say, Well, look it. Fausto says and he's super confident, and he's telling us that he knows how to do this. Let's elevate him and push him and kind of pull that lever around his own professional leadership because that could be his own type of indicator to keeping him around in the profession for years. Again, this is about any type of strategy that gets us to where we need to be, and this one at times just gets us to really just understand what we have in-house. Next one, let's see what we got going on here. Warmth and support, I let my students know that it's okay to get answers wrong or think outside the box. Let's see how we're doing here with these. Are we letting them be experiential? Are we letting them learn from trial and error? I still keep learning from that all the time. Let's see what the results are here. Generally implement this practice well, so that means that we have good check-ins with our young people. That means you guys are implementing strategies of being with the pulse of what's happening and letting them know that it's okay and that they are – it's okay that they don't have all the right answers because that is learning. And the scientific method is is even if you get the right answer, then let's prove it or disprove you and keep pushing the learning and never be you know, always being a lifelong learner, that Deweyan concept that you know, we want to keep pushing and keep asking questions and making sure that that happens. And we need to train ourselves for that. That just doesn't miraculously happen to all learners, okay, next. Okay, perfect, now that we have a little bit more context to this idea of thinking of the importance for your own, I want you to really think about how those competencies influence your day-to-day, general ability to implement those SEL practices in your role. Just think about that for a second. Does it help? What would you do with this information, or what do you do with this information? Again, this tool just gives you the opportunity to [00:43:26 unintelligible] and there are a lot of different tools out there if you Google them, but this is one that we have got a lot of great traction with, and it has a lot of the underpinned – the majority of the underpinning research. As we always say, "We do the research so you don't have to." This is again, a comprehensive guide getting anybody started, but there are a lot of great ways of thinking through, collecting and thinking through your own data in this space. Okay, next slide please. Oh, let's think about self-awareness here. I'm usually aware of how my emotions, culturally grounded beliefs, and backgrounds are precursors to my emotional reactions and understand how they might impact social teaching practices and my students. So, this is about being culturally responsive and making sure that you know or someone there knows how to make sure that they can differentiate some background biases. Let's see what that looks like. What are the results there? Okay, we have some agree, great. So, we are – so, pedagogically, we are holding ourselves to the fire. One of the best things about that is that we want to make sure every one - there is no hitting a plateau in this work because we know that there is an influx of new workers and different experiences and different expertise in this. So, this is more about how we build everyone because we want to make sure that ecologically speaking the young people go from each ecology in their learning setting and have similar experiences. We do not want to contribute to the dissonance that they might see developing when once when we are out of whack. Let's see the next one please. Emotional regulation, I effectively use multiple strategies examples, breathing techniques and/or mindfulness when I have strong emotional reactions in the classroom, stress or anger, while implementing social teaching practices. Perfect, I love it. I love that we all saying that we are work either are doing it, putting it into play already because I said I think that us modeling that both for our young people as a way of acting when that happens. And then even for our other peers as they see that your practice might be different than theirs and how that and how you might be a little happier in your professional life because you're doing some of these things and whether they might be looking at how we really have, again, create safety. Understand that everyone is not at the same place with this and make sure that we are openly sharing how we're doing this because something that you're already doing could really help somebody else, next please. And then it puts you in a place of PD so that you reflect on how you rate. Own it and again, this is going to be housed and put in places of accountability, which again accountability is only a bad word when it creeps up on you versus if you are part of this and you say, "Hey, I need some help on the understanding of this," and you track that, and you put some actions steps. Now, we're really talking about how we build our adult capacities in a structured way, in a safe way, and we keep being better professionals along the way. All right, we're going to skip because I really want to make time though that that was yes, [00:46:51 perfect]. There are at the place where you get to think through or what I think is an amazing resource. I get the pleasure of working with a lot of different systems around the country, and I just have been in awe is a bad word, but I've already used so many of these amazing Indiana resources to try to help our other capacity building and PDs around the country. Because at times, one good resource – there's no stealing in our field, right? This is only just taking a good idea and putting it into a different context. And this science of happiness that Christy is going to break down for you that you all have at your disposal again in a virtual way is I think just such a great way of rolling something out because that allows adults to put themselves in a place of self-care. So, Christy, if you want to just go ahead and jump in. CHRISTY: Yeah, thanks so much, Fausto. I really appreciated you walking that through for our listeners and for myself. I think it's good to reflect on that. And truly where we have seen some growth in school districts across the state of Indiana is where they have really taken the time to invest in their adult educators and being really intentional in putting them as the number one priority to roll this work out by making sure they have understanding of what it looks like. They have understanding of how mastery looks for an adult and kind of going back and forth with that. So, those would be some great tools if that is what your district is looking to get ready to start may be able to have some self-assessment, some anonymous surveys at your school or school district to really lay that foundation. So, one of the things that Dr. McCormick really wanted us to do here at the Department of Education was focus on teacher wellbeing, and we know most of our teachers leave, unfortunately, in the first five years of teaching. And so, we know that there is no better tier-one intervention than a healthy and enlightened teacher, and we believe that wholeheartedly. So, we came together as DOE with Butler University, and we created the science of happiness course. On the next slide, you'll see, yeah, there's a short video that is an overview of what the course is. We're not going to watch that today because we don't have the time, but this course was based off of Yale University, which was created for actual students. They were seeing an increase of students die by suicide, and so they put this course into place and it continues to be the number one sought after elective. And so, Dr. McCormick met with Dr. Santos and really got her blessing to create something for Indiana here, and so, it is housed on our Moodle, which is our online portal, and so, you'll see on the next slide that it's self-paced. So, that means there is no beginning time. There is no end time. That's on Moodle. So, you can go to our website, enroll there, and it's nine modules, but seven modules of content. So, the first module is kind of an introductory around teacher fatigue, why this is important, really looking at secondhand trauma, and then you'll go into more content throughout the process. And so, each of the weeks that is content-heavy should take you no more than 45 minutes per module, and it goes through what is called the [00:50:02 PERMAP] model, and so being intentional with each of those different letters and being reflecting as how you work through that as an adult. You know, are you engaged? Do you have relationships? Are you getting sleep, and exercise and the things that you need? For that module, you will get 45 PGP points, which is half of what you need in the state of Indiana for your five-year renewal. And so, we have seen over 2,300 educators enroll, which is amazing since we released it in October, but what's even more exciting to us is we are seeing school districts really use this in their PLC model, which means they're pulling together their teachers to walk through this hand in hand. So, they're creating and fostering a culture of warmth and nurture and really just a place to share, right? You know, we all need a space of safe place to share and bounce off ideas and really reflect on how we're growing as professionals and really see an increase in happiness around our work that we're doing. So, this is a really great course. If you go to our website, which is you know DOE. Oh, never mind, Cora put it into the chat box. So, if you go to our website, you can enroll right there, but you can also on our website there are one-pagers that if you are and probably have a couple of SEL coordinators, if maybe you're the person who's asked to lead this in your district or school, or you want to, there is a one-page PD overview. And so, you could get your team together, share here's what you all will learn during module one. You go do on your own the next week or two, and then let's come back at a PLC and reflect together. What did you learn? There is a journal that goes along with it. You can write as little or as much as you want. The only things that are required to get the PGP points are their two ten-question quiz midpoint and end, and then we talk about creating a happiness plan. What are things that you are willing to do going forth to really support your wellness and your well-being so that you can support the kiddos that you're in front of each day? And so, we'll ask you to submit that plan. We don't grade it for a grade. We just want to see that you have thought through how this could really play out into your day-to-day activity as thoughts are shared. This is stuff – these are skills that we have to continually go back and focus on to make sure that we are vetting them throughout the day. So, you can go ahead and go to the next slide. So, our next steps, Fausto, I actually don't know if this you or me, but I can keep going. FAUSTO: Go for it. CHRISTY: Okay, so our next steps, it's just if you have any questions for Fausto or I, we want to open up. We have about five minutes left of our time here together and want to provide you all with any answers to questions or if you started the happiness course and you would like to give us any feedback, we'd love to hear that as well. We'll pause for a minute there. Okay, well, if something comes to you, please feel free to still send it our way, but here for the next step is again, the link to our website, which is doe.in.gov/sebw. And when you go to our website, on the next page, you'll see the video pop up, which will give you about that three-minute commercial about what the course is and why it's so important to educators, and really looking at how this can provide some great foundation and SELs for our adults. And then below that, it will say, "Enroll here." You can click that, and that will take you straight to Moodle. If you have forgotten your login or you need to create a new one, you can do all of that there and be able to support the group there. One thing to note is as districts have worked through this together, you need to ensure that each person who's hoping to receive the PGP points is signed in. You can do it all as a group, but you need to be individually signed in and work through the weeks to obtain your PGP points at the end. And the last thing we wanted to share is that tonight at 8:00 p.m., we will be hosting our Indiana Ed chat and it will be talking about the whole child summit, which was last week, which we talked a lot about teacher wellbeing. We talked a lot about student voice, all things social and emotional, mental health, wellness for children. So, if you have additional questions or things that you want to share about the whole child summit, please meet us tonight on Twitter, and we will go back and forth with ideas and support as you continue to do this work in your space. So, thank you all so much for joining us. Thank you for the work that you do each and every day, and please let us know how we can help support you as we go on. Before we go, we're going to share in the chat box one strategy for professional self-care and one action step that you can do, and then I believe when you exit out, you'll be asked to complete a survey, which really helps us to prepare for another WebEx in the future to support the needs of Indiana. Anything I missed, Fausto? FAUSTO: No, thank you so much, Christy. That was wonderful. Yes, again, before we lose you, obviously, please make sure to share some of those important self-care things. I you know, you - boxing, I'll take boxing. I'll take CrossFit. I'll take long walks on the beach, whatever is the thing that keeps you moving and doesn't let you take it out on your person at home, right. What's one? I got hot bath. I love it. One action step, I'm going to go take a hot bath. Thank you for that because now you just inspired my action step. Mindful eating, great, whole life, yes, it is about everything that we put in us, and all intentionality pushes across everything. So, definitely what you consume is great. Thank you for that. Horse riding? All right that – I don't know if that – we're going to have to think about that Chicago REL through horse riding. Again, keep them coming. I know that people might have to jump off. If you got to go too and save the world through you work, go ahead and just leave us with that. We'll still be on. So, don't fuss if you're contemplating which ones to leave us. We really appreciate your time and all that you do. We know there are a lot of tools and resources to push out to your teams and other practitioners. Again, we just wanted to highlight some of them that have been tried and tested that could help move along, but again, anything that you use, please – oh, screenless time. All right, I'm going to – I found my action step for after this webinar, give my eyes a quick moment. Perfect, keep them coming and thank you all so very much. Please, please, please click on the survey. Your feedback we use all of the data. Thank you so very much. Have a great day. 