 [AMANDA] Julie, thank you so much for joining us. We are now recording. We are so happy to have you here joining us for CBIRT and I'll turn this over to you and let you do your little chat. [JULIE] Thank you very much, Amanda, and welcome everybody. I am so excited. This is one of my favorite topics: traumatic brain injury and young children. A little bit about my background: prior to becoming a researcher I was a clinical speech-language pathologist for many years and in rehab, in different settings, early intervention program, working with adults, many different settings. And when I got my PhD I helped start the rehabilitation research program at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and while working there I received funding for a federal longitudinal study to study early elementary school outcomes of children who had an injury before age six and I started coming over to the CDC to talk about that research and when an opening came up I applied and I got it so I've been in CDC for seven years and one of my interest is still looking at young children. In particular, now that I'm in a public health domain, what can we do to prevent these injuries? So, I'm going to start out by talking a little bit about some of the work we've done at CDC for young children and then I'm going to talk about work from my outcome study and I'm trying to leave time for questions at the end for discussion because I'd love to hear from all of you as well. And by the way you'll see my formal name is Juliet on my publications but my nick name is Julie just to avoid confusion with both. Okay, so, as we know injuries occur across the lifespan for children all the time and what one thing we do know and we've learned through research over the years is that age matters. So, children who were injured at a younger age are more at risk for long-term outcomes and some of this is conference studies from Australia where they look at both birth cohorts and they are talking about what happens to kids in a long term; particularly Audrey McKinley's work at looking at adult outcomes of early childhood injury. Unfortunately at CDC we don't have that kind of longitudinal data. I'll talk a little bit more about that at the report to Congress when I talk about that but age does matter and children who have an injury in an early age when everything is developing are at much more risk for longer term effects. So, we do know the children under five years have the highest number of emergency room visits for TBI, they're more vulnerable to the effects of a global brain injury such as a TBI. A stroke is considered a more isolated localized injury where a TBI is considered a global brain injury. There's been studies, as I mentioned, out of Australia particularly Anderson and her group that talked about how these early injuries have effects on cognition and language that can impact learning. And if you think of young children at age two you don't have a lot of what's called cognitive reserve because you're just starting to talk and process what's going on in the world; you haven't learned to read yet, you haven't learned math facts. So, younger children have lower rates of cognitive reserve that might help them following this injury and we also know that the effects of the injury under-five may not be obvious till formal school entry and by that I mean kindergarten/ first grade which is part of the reason why we applied for this field initiated study through NIDILRR because we know that children aren't in formal education before they go to kindergarten. Some preschools do offer more formalized learning but typically that's not done till Kindergarten Now, I love this slide because over the years I've given many talks to Head Start providers, preschool providers, early intervention people and I show this slide and I say oh these are outcomes for young children that they have changes in organization, inhibition, memory, behavior regulation and if I show this slide to preschool teachers they will tell me "this is my whole class. How "do you know what stands out?" And having raised three boys I would agree with them at this age. So, there's a large span of what is considered "in the "normal range for kids age three and four" for these kinds of behaviors that's one of the reasons why it's often hard to tell the effects of the injury on children in this age group. So, this is a little older data but it's still true that emergency department visits are rising for children, hospitalizations are reduced. So, you'll see the blue bar is from 2007 the orange is from 2013 data and so deaths are being reduced and hospitalizations which is an indicator of a more severe injury are being reduced but, we still see a high number of them and this is really true for the 2010 data but, even in our more recent ones which is why I kept this slide. Children aged 0 to 4 years have the highest rate of emergency department visit for brain injury. Now, our current data shows that seniors aged 65 years and older are top so they're higher than 0 to 4 years but in children that's still the highest rate of emergency department visits and that is a lot to swallow that those kids all are getting injured at that young age. A few years ago I did a project with Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. They have a large pediatric healthcare system that has an integrated EHR so, we were able to see where patients were entering. Was it primary care, ED care, specialty outpatient (like concussion clinics or sports medicine clinics), and impatient? And, as you can see from this, one striking thing we learned is that children with concussions or mild TBI were mostly seeing their primary care physician for care: 82% However, in this same paper we also show that ages zero to four are more likely to go to the emergency department or Urgent Care. I just saw a question so, I'm going to stop a minute. I would love to share these slides with you however they would have to be cleared by CDC and they are not so, I will post something afterwards to share. I apologize for that. That's something that I have to work with in working in my government position. So, these exact slides will not be able to be uploaded. So, this is another paper we wrote on that data because while sports has really brought brain injuries to the forefront in the public, we're thankful for that, it's not the only mechanism of injury in children and as you can see sports and recreational injuries really don't start til children get into organized sports which can start in preschool but really starts between ages six and ten and really peaks in adolescence. So, approximately 30% of concussions were non sports related overall but, there were higher proportions for younger children which makes sense. Younger children are more likely to experience their brain injury because of falls. And this is a paper that I wrote looking at something called the national survey of children's health where parents are asked questions: "did your "child have any of these health conditions" like diabetes, learning disability, they asked about a brain injury that was diagnosed by a physician. So, parents who report in this study had to be seen by a physician and the reason I put this slide up is there's a large amount of estimates by parent report of children who have a lifetime of history of TBI in the US but also with that there's a list of health conditions that are more aligned with those parents who said "yes" to those questions. So, yes there is a lifetime history of TBI compared to those who said "no, there's not a lifetime history." So, you see particularly some things like developmental delay, speech and language problem, ADHD are very high in those children. They're very highly associated with TBI and again we're so thrilled about the impact of what sports laws and sport has played on influencing care for children. I think it's brought much more to forefront so we thank them. However, how do young children experience the TBI? How did they get their TBI? On coming to CDC I was very interested in this so, I started a study with my colleagues here and also two interns: Kaitlin law and Michael Joseph. They looked at 39,000 narratives about what causes a fall in children ages 0 to 4 because they're more vulnerable. There's very limited literature talking about how these kids fall in the circumstances and this gave us an opportunity to provide a national estimate. So, on your left you'll see narrative examples. So, this is what we reviewed. We looked at these narratives and said "okay what kind" they were coded for actions. So, you see in the first one: nine-month-old was sitting in a shopping cart, rolled out of car seats, fell from shopping cart, and hit ground. So the action "rolled" kind of started that. Whereas in the second one they really fell to the floor after being pulled by their brother. So, they were pulled by their brother and then fell. The third one is a patient was running, tripped and fell hitting head on coffee table. So, we looked at these and coded them, and we also looked at product codes. What products are associated with falls and children? When we were looking at the method we weighted the cases, we did a joinpoint regression analysis to look at trends over time, and calculated confidence intervals. So, our results showed a large number of children ages four years and younger, and that's what's in the data work emergency room data, were treated annually and they increased significantly over time. Most are treated and released to home and child action such as running accounted for the greatest proportion of injuries. However, actions by others were highest for children younger than age one which makes sense because they're just starting to move around in their environment and the majority of falls occurred in the home. So, what was interesting from this is this is the first paper out of CDC that we really looked in addition to internal injury to the head and concussion what we're coded as fractured skulls. That's a more serious injury and it's much smaller. As you can see, most of these were coded either as concussions or internal injury to the head; most of them in this age group were males not surprisingly and most of them were in children ages one year or younger which means, as I mentioned before, somehow adult actions were more related. So, what we learned about child Actions Falls for all ages some of the narratives simply said the child fell on the floor but less than one year we saw things like "roll" as indicated or "climbing." That's the time when children are just starting to acquire developmental milestone. Three to four years we're seeing kids jumping, tripping, and running. That makes sense if you think about them developmentally but actions by others were highest for less than one year old and it was primarily kids were being dropped. Meaning they were held in car seats and dropped. They may have been carried somewhere and dropped. Greater than two years they were carried, placed on a surface where they fell off up or pushed. And three to four years old were pushed, carried, or pulled. And so, here's all the products related to it. As you can see, there's a lot of furniture products: beds, baby furniture, and as children get older you see sports and racks start to come into the picture as one of the leading products meaning that it doesn't always mean they were playing these sports they might have been in their home in their parents gym area and they were on a running machine or something like that. So, we know these children are at highest risk. They had the highest rate. What can we do to prevent that? We wanted environmental occasions such as modifications of physical space like you see that young man looking at the gates on stairs and also improved parental supervision approaches in the home such as how you carry your baby. Do you make sure that they're secure when you do that? Here's some limitations from the study that we're not able to really talk about it. It underestimates the burden, causes and circumstances may vary by community and location because of differences in home and community environment, and they're captured from health care provider notes. So, there may be some omissions and inaccuracy but, this is something we really want to address and I'm currently working on a second paper looking at those fractured skulls and how children fell hard enough to get fractured skulls to see if we can come up with some prevention messages. So, that's about prevention. Now I just want to mention our report to Congress on the management of traumatic brain injury in children. This was mandated to us and we started this after this paper was published in 2016 online where a group of us, as you can see, it's multidisciplinary: physicians, educational people, I think Debbie was from CBIRT. At the time we looked at: what are the service delivery system the parents navigate following traumatic brain injury? And it is health care and educational systems. And that paper was very helpful in our report to Congress that identified gaps in health care, school, and community services highlights policy strategies that could address short and long term consequences of TBI and offer specific and actionable recommendations to improve TBI care in children and also advance our understanding of what happens to children following TBI. So, this report was mandated in 2014 by Congress. It actually asked us to do a systematic review in collaboration with health and human services and it was released in March of 2018. And just a little note about the process; we had over 50 external reviewers from different aspects including Head Start who looked at our contact at the beginning, looked at our outline, looked at our first review and then the final one and provided us feedback. One of the things we learned in this report and we talked about deep inside the report there's one section on preschool children. And what we talked about is when they leave the health care setting they do not have a single point of entry for services because they're not in formalized school yet so, they get a TBI diagnosis some return to preschool, some return to Head Start, some may go to daycare settings and the potential sources of care following this are the pediatrician or family physician but, these community settings are all over. There's not one single point of entry for kids and also we noted that the link between the medical community in school for all children is better if children are enrolled in inpatient rehab as a study by Ann Glang et al. talked about but, there's such variability across the country in terms of if school intervention coordinators are available. Medical records are not always easily accessible by the school; this is true for preschools and the injury may not be reported to school especially if it's mild. So, even in preschool kids this may happen at home and parents may not tell the school about it and return to play or activity for children. As you know there's return-to-play legislation in 50 states that focuses on organized sport and there's also consensus guidelines for return to sports but, there's very little out there about returning to activities such as gym class particularly for young kids. There's nothing for kids under 5. Should they play on the playground after they have this concussion? What should they do? That's lacking. We also make a point to say in this report that there are very very few studies of long-term outcomes of TBI following a childhood TBI. So, we do know from some of the work that's done that there's low rates of enrollment and post-secondary education employment and independent living and also we do know there's a high rate of self-reported childhood brain injury in the justice system. Those aren't outcomes we really want to see. We want to see that kids have more positive outcomes and unfortunately there's not a lot of studies that I know of or any that I know that report on what the successful outcome even for kids who had an injury at age 4. So, we don't know a lot about that yet. So, here's some recommendations that we made in the report to Congress about returning to school. Training and coordination is important. It's important to think about the transitions the children experience throughout their lifespan and really a need for more longitudinal studies and comprehensive surveillance estimates to better understand this problem. And these three words recognize, monitor, and care are three main messages about this report about what's needed for children. And I will say there's a think tank brain injury conference called the Galveston brain injury conference and this year it's been dedicated to pediatric TBI and we focused on these three areas including across the lifespan and young children. So, hopefully there will be some products and messaging out of there that can expand the work in this area. Now I'm going to talk about outcome. I'm going to talk about the studies out of my NIDILRR longitudinal study called Language and Literacy Outcomes of Preschool Children with TBI. So, one of the reasons we got this is we included a graph that showed the number of emergency department visits which was in the ten thousand over five years for young children compared to who's enrolled in special education and those numbers range from 5 to 10 over five years for preschool from the Department of Ed report. I think that really helped us get this because we know that we don't know much about this age group and what their outcomes are so one of the things we wanted to do in this study is understand academic and behavioral outcomes. We also had a control group of children with orthopedic injuries and we wanted to examine service utilization patterns both in medical and service delivery for this age group so, we asked parents at the first study visit to tell us about what services they access after their diagnosis. So, children in his study were between the ages of six to nine years old, they had a history of traumatic brain injury for age six and the reason we moved up from age five was that we wanted kids who had not started school yet and were at least a year post injury, and we were learning that kids might be five years ten months and not in kindergarten yet and this was a study that was very difficult as recruitment was challenging. So, we extended to before age six and they had not been in formal school yet. What was interesting is 81% of our cohort was mild. That surprised us as we thought we would get families with more severe injuries and many of their parents told us they approached us because they noticed differences in their children's behavior after the injury and they were having trouble getting professionals to listen to them or know where to refer them to. We also had a control group of children the same age who experienced orthopedic injury and so, we saw them for three time points, one visit annually, that was part of the reason why some parents didn't want to participate because we did three hours session. I'm going to talk to you first on the participants for year one and discuss the differences. So, this is the paper we had published in the Journal of Head Trauma Rehab in 2018 where we talk about early elementary school outcomes and children with TBI. And what was interesting about this study is a., they were primarily mild or mild complicated meaning they had a mild injury on the Glasgow Coma Scale but they had imaging findings and 61% of our kids in the mild category or 63% in this paper that we looked at were mild complicated so, they had imaging findings at the time. What we learned was all children scored within the range of age expectations on our measures and working with two psychologists who are very statistically oriented they were very very worried about how we could talk about this data when everybody was scoring within the average range or most of the kids were in both groups, but we started looking at group differences. So, even though children were scoring within the average range we noticed group differences on more complex measures such as pragmatic language. And on that test instead of asking them to name something, we would say "what would you say to your "grandmother if she asked you to come to her house." So, you posed a situation of the child and they would have to respond which requires more formulation and thinking, reading comprehension, and again in young children even on the woodcock-johnson the reading comprehension is like a sentence it's not very much information but children were showing group differences in verbal fluency, storytelling, and executive functions measured by parent rapport and adaptive behavior. So, these are areas that we saw differences, but children weren't necessarily in the clinical range and if you see this table one of the things we did was look at the percent of children in the clinical range and we defined that as more than two standard deviations or below the mean in this group because that's often what helps them get services at school. They have to be lower than the mean, and as you can see, not very many kids are in that range; some of the higher ones are story retell, pragmatic language, reading comprehensions, executive function's definitely high, and adaptive behavior. So, parents are noticing things that are different about these kids and some of these measures such as pragmatic language or story retell aren't traditionally done as part of a school assessment and so, a few other things we learn from this study is high rate of hearing screening failure. That surprised us, and parents were telling us things like "oh they fail that all the time" and we learned that many of these children had not had their hearing even screened after the injury or they were being screened in the pediatricians office and if they failed they weren't referred to further testing according to the parent. It may be that this was the state of Georgia. I don't know. We also learned that children experience headaches long after the injury and one of the physicians on our Advisory Board suggested we start asking about health conditions, but then when we asked I think it was a rate of between 4% and 10% in the TBI group compared to a lower rate in the orthopedic group and if you look at like national surveillance of children's headaches in ages six to nine, it's less than 1% so, these kids were still having headaches after the injury. So, the index injury was the injuries that got them in the study but, in examining medical records our research assistants noticed some parents had been back to the emergency room a few more times that they didn't tell us in the interview but, they saw it in the record. So, as I say overall children start their concussion and brain injury history before age five before they even get into sports. We also looked at services for preschool children. As I mentioned in the report to Congress, we identified that there's no single point of entry but, what we learned from our study is nobody received inpatient rehabilitation or early intervention services. Some of the parents were referred to early intervention services by whoever evaluated them for their brain injury but in Georgia they administer something called the Ages and Stages Questionnaire. So, if you passed that you are not seen for early intervention services and a couple of the parents told us their children passed that because right after the injury they weren't showing delay. Parents noticed their behavior was different but, that wasn't something that could be accounted for in the screening method. Only 26 received outpatient treatment and all were in regular preschool; there were no special education placement. Now, looking at how these children tested, that makes sense because not very many were below the second standard deviation. They probably aren't qualifying for services at this young age but now I want to take you to a second study we did where we looked at how pragmatic language was related to adaptive behavior and Cathy Hendricks, who's the lead author on this, she was a research assistant at the time. She's now finishing her doctorate in developmental psychology and she came up with this idea and did all the analysis. So, we know that language skills are very important for social functioning and the pragmatic language is a more complex skill that not only requires language but it requires you integrating and using it to achieve in school. It's more linked to cognition. And some studies have shown that basic language skills like expressive language, expressive vocabulary, grammar can remain intact after TBI if you look at executive skills it develops across childhood starting early on but then it continues up to age 20 to 25. Those of you who are parents of sons can understand that I think as I can but, executive functioning predicts later adaptive outcomes and it also predicts later social adaptive outcomes. And children, regardless of whether you're injured or not, it's a very good predictor in looking at adaptive functioning. And the measure we use has these three domains on it: conceptual adaptive functioning which is language use, and literacy social adaptive functioning which is interpersonal skills, and practical adaptive functioning which is hygiene and safety skills and those are the three that I'll talk about in this study. So, we wanted to look in further into outcomes into adaptive behavior. So, what Kathy did is she looked in the study and we picked two groups who were approximately age eight years old. So, we had 36 TBI children and 40 orthopaedic controls and we excluded those outliers who had lower or more severe injuries and more severe conceptual and practical adaptive functioning. We did a sensitivity analysis that showed no difference nd children included, again, were primarily mild complicated so, they had a mild injury but, they had imaging findings and these are the measures that we used for this study. We did for all children an IQ, Glasgow Coma Scale, for language we looked at expressive vocabulary and pragmatic language, for executive functioning we looked at the BRIEF, Global T score, and for adaptive functioning we used the Parent Report Adaptive Behavior Assessment System where we looked at those three domaines: practical, social, and conceptual and then we did sensitivity test. We use standardized scores for all the analysis. Kathy first ran a series of ANOVAS to tests our primary aims but then she did something called bootstrapping. I'm not going to go into what all that does but it incorporates indirect effects and it's a much more complicated statistical procedure which allows you to look more closely at relationships. So, what we learn from this study is that the TBI group had significantly lower scores compared to the orthopedic group on all age 8 outcome measures except for practical adaptive functioning. So, that's the one that's just like safety and hygiene. Performance on the measures in both groups was mostly, again, in the average range relative to normative data. These between group differences in pragmatic language and social adaptive functioning persisted at the age 9 visits so a year later. And at age 9, TBI participants showed lower conceptual abilities. So what does this mean? So, expressive language at age 8 did not predict any aspect of adaptive functioning so, how children were using their vocabulary their vocabulary abilities didn't predict. he pragmatic language did. At age 8 it predicted 11% of the variance in adaptive functioning at age nine over and above injury type at any of the other covariates and having a TBI predicted reduced pragmatic language. Pragmatic language was a significant mediator in the relation between adaptive behavior. So executive functioning, it predicted adaptive functioning for social and conceptual but not practical, but there was an indirect of injury type that it was not significant for any age of nine adaptive score suggesting that it doesn't mediate the relationship like pragmatic language does and we didn't see a bi-directional relationship with adaptive behavior meaning adaptive behavior at age nine did not go back and look at pragmatic language. So, the point of this study are that early TBI may interfere with pragmatic language development or more complex language development into this middle childhood time in elementary school and it may affect the ongoing development of conceptual and social adaptation skills, but it's not explained by expressive vocabulary. So, it's really the more complex language skills that rely on organization of language and cognitive skills to respond to social situations that are vulnerable to the effects of early TBI. And so, in school-age children who experience TBI in the midst of language development, it's aligned with previous literature from Ryan et al. even in mild or mild complicated. So, there is some literature coming out of Australia, again, that talks about it as a possibility because social adaptive functioning really relies on language expression and social communication and as conceptual functioning relies on higher-order integration of communication planning and self-direction. So, executive functioning wasn't the main mediator- that's what we found surprising about this study; it was really the language. And other contributing variables that we wonder complicate this is we did a laboratory based language assessment of pragmatics. Did we really capture the issue? And we didn't have data on maternal education, we didn't talk about that as much. So, the point from this study is even children who have mild complicated injuries can have a lasting impact on their adaptive and complex language development. So, what are some interventions we can do? One is pragmatic language assessments of children who have experienced a brain injury and also intervention, and we need to do further longitudinal studies. So, I want to mention this because, again, this is a paper that I published that showed speech and language problem. It's one of the first to show that there are speech and language problems related to a history of traumatic brain injury, but also pragmatic intervention in school is something that speech-language pathologists could do. Now, recognizing that most of our children scored in the average range on these measures, our research staff developed a one-pager to give to our family with suggestions for parents to facilitate social participation. So, as you can see, we not only researched the literature we interviewed some families in our neighborhoods and asked what can parents do to get their children involved. So, you can see this is something that we gave to parents because we were concerned that we're seeing these findings, but they may not qualify for services at school or in community settings. The next study I want to talk about is hearing screening following traumatic brain injury and young children. Yes I am able to share those handouts with you. I will do that. I just want to give you a little bit of background on TBI and hearing loss because if you look at the anatomy of the ear, the nerve of hearing is housed in the hard bony skull as is the middle ear the whole ear so, anything shaking up to the skull could potentially impact function of the ear and a lot of reports talk about temporal bone fractures which is the area of bone right around the ear. There is research saying that these fractures can lead to not only injury to the facial nerve and nerve of hearing but hearing loss and as we know early recognition of hearing loss, especially in children, is imperative and can greatly decrease issues later on. So, what we did is of the parents of participants who attended a testing session each testing session we did vision, hearing, and articulation screening and interestingly not a lot of research studies on kids do hearing screening and my colleague, who's a neuropsychologist, at first balked at this and then once we did it and we saw what happened now she uses it in all her studies of children. So, when you read about children's outcome studies check to see if they check their hearing or screen for it and we were surprised at the number who were failing the hearing screen. So, we developed a one-pager that parents could take to their pediatrician that said "they failed this hearing "screening, we're suggesting that they have a complete audio metric assessment "because they've had a brain injury." I think we worded it we "suggested" the audio logic assessment because we were learning that even children in the orthopedic group were failing the testing as well so, not only did we have children with TBI who failed the hearing screening, we had children with orthopedic injuries which makes sense in this age range. Hearing can also be related to other factors such as ear infections. So, Akilah Heggs led the study. She's an audiologist who was getting her PhD in public health. So, she conducted an interview with parents who were interested in participating and then we looked at trends on what happened after the hearing screening. So, that's our rate of hearing screening failure in each group; higher and TBI. Some participants failed the hearing screening at multiple time points in our assessment. Children in the TBI group, 80% had a mild TBI, most were mild complicated. 40% of the parents reported they did not understand the hearing screening results. We had parents reports their children failed the hearing screening several times. This one parent in particular said she was never referred, and 50% of the parents reported they did not follow up with their pediatrician. So, it's not just at the doctor's office it's also parents aren't following up in part because they may not understand what this means. 20% of the parents reported their child had subsequent ear problems. We had one child return to the second study visit with hearing aids and the diagnosis of severe sensory neural hearing loss. Interestingly, this child was being evaluated in school for an autism diagnosis. *Interruption in audio* So, children following TBI have a risk for hearing loss and these findings align with other studies, and they need to be educated, and children need to be screened and if they fail the screen they really need to be seen for audiometric testing. And so, for preschool children, hearing screenings offered as part of a well child visit as the pediatrician, but children's hearings not systematically screen in either clinical settings or research studies following TBI and changes in hearing are not always readily observable the child just may seem quiet and maybe parents think that's their personality, or in the case of the child who came back to our study with hearing aids, her caregivers thought that's just her, she just doesn't respond much. And parents may also notice issues with hearing and ears and not know where to go for assessment. So, again, what should we do for this? We created this one pager which I can share with you that talks about hearing loss and brain injury. It gives parents " what should I do?" And if it goes undetected what it means. We really want to make sure kids get their hearing checked after TBI and we really want to make sure in taking care of young children that their school performance is monitored and that parents need to let your doctor and school know when you have concerns. This is my research team for this study and the funding source for it and now I'm going to leave some time for questions and discussion because I'd like to hear from all of you either about your experiences or if you have any questions on the information I presented. [AMANDA] Thank You Julie, it's Amanda. So, for those of you who have questions for her please make sure to use your chat box on your right hand side. I would love to hear from you. [JULIE] I have a question for the group. How many people are preschool teachers or are you elementary school teachers? How do you interact with children I guess is my question. Or maybe healthcare professional *responding to chat* Oh district nurses. Great *responding to chat* Oh awesome Awesome, so I'm wondering we have a range. So, some of you work in preschool, some of you are in k-12. I guess my first question is of those of you in k-12, how many of you ever hear that someone's had a brain injury before they start school and that's accounting for what you're seeing in school? Does anyone ever experience that? Only one. I guess we can unmute should we unmute microphones Amanda so folks can chat or is a chat box the best option? [AMANDA] I think probably chat box is if we get this many people talking all at once it's going to be tough. I did see a couple of questions kind of in the middle. So, I was going to go back to those if that works for you? [JULIE] sure. [AMANDA] Here's one from in Anna and she said: "do you think some children are being misdiagnosed with ASD when in fact "it's TBI?" [JULIE] Yes, we saw that in action on the study. We saw a young child she had a hearing loss and actually she had a fractured skull in her temporal lobe which we think really caused the severity of her loss. We had two parents in our study tell us that their pediatrician sent them to an autism center because they thought they did the best testing for what the parents were concerned about and these parents were reporting behavioral differences. So, I'm sure that happens. I also, in a recent meeting where I talked about this study, was told by a few people, I forget what state they were from, that they often categorize children with TBI as having autism because they can get them services. So, yes, I have heard of that. I'm not sure, it's not been tested whether that's a good thing to do. I think sometimes well-meaning educational professionals are just trying to get kids served and as you can see from what I reported, children may not qualify, for example, for a TBI special ed category if they're not scoring well below the mean on tests. So, hopefully that helped and [AMANDA] I've got a few more questions in here have one from Nora.Can you give specific questions to help trigger parents to recall specific Falls or injuries? [JULIE] oh that's a great question. That varies from survey to survey. I think, some folks asked "has your child "ever hit their head that you had to take him to the doctor?" I think some folks asked "have you ever had a traumatic brain injury?" I think ones that ask more detail about the symptoms or there's a screening measure by the state of Nebraska that specifically list symptoms for children 0 to 5 and I think I can share that too because if I pulled it off their website we used it in our study to screen our orthopedic controls to make sure they had not experienced a brain injury prior to their entering the study and we continued in each year to make sure they weren't having brain injuries that would contribute to their performance. So, yeah I can share that with you too. [AMANDA] It looks like that would be appreciated. So, another question is from Lori and she said: "for very young children who have had TBIs but don't "qualify for early intervention, what would be the best way to keep in touch "with families? Would we be best off to establish eligibility based on medical "statements if possible so we can follow up?" [JULIE] That's a great question. All of these are great questions but, what's interesting about that one is I talked to someone from the state of Ohio who told me that they didn't, at the time, this was at the time of our study, they didn't use Ages and Stages because some children with specific health conditions passed it as with TBI and so, technically, in some states, just having a new onset medical diagnosis will help you at least be evaluated. And early on when I was in rehab and a practicing clinician if all you needed even for the TBI category at school was documentation of the injury is a medical condition. Now most school systems and states have in there "and impact on educational "functioning" to qualify for TBI. But I think some states you'd have to inquire about eligibility requirements for your particular local area for early intervention because it may just be that your state just allows for medical documentation. [AMANDA] Thank you and looks like Janet wants to know how to get access to the handout and documents that you mentioned. [JULIE] I could share those with you. Amanda can post them right? [AMANDA] yeah and I'll just send them out to the group afterwards when we also have an eval and certificate and those things available at the end. And then Tiffany Hall wants to know if you recommend any particular testing for pragmatic language under the age of six for standardized scores. [JULIE] Well and we used the sub test from the castle and interestingly when I was writing up the proposal for the grant I asked a friend who's a neuropsychologist, very well-known, he suggested using the pragmatic language test on the castle because they found it sensitive and so did we even for very young children. And we tried to do some child testing in executive functions and the tests just were not sensitive to this age group because of the wide range and the fact that most of our kids were testing in the normal limits. [AMAMNDA] Then Lois Hawkins asked "what about long-term accommodation "during school to end of high school and possibly college?" [JULIE] Oh boy. As you know, if you work in the schools each year, eligibility is reviewed and determined and I think from what I've seen with these young kids they may not qualify for services early on but then as they get older they may qualify. And then sometimes the brain injury isn't considered as the source of why they're having trouble. It's forgotten. That what I've heard from the field. We are looking into what's happening in this transition to adulthood. There's not a lot out there on brain injury at all especially for kids who had it at a younger age what were they like older. I think Sherry Wade's group and the Australia group are the places that have the best research on that but it's still not following kids from the time of injury up until adulthood at age 18 or 20. Now we need more research on that. [AMANDA] It looks like the last question is from Alina West and she wants to know "Are any of the patients with hearing loss being "reported as speaking louder?" [JULIE] That's a good question. We didn't ask. We asked what parents noticed. I didn't see that in our data but I'm sure that happened. In the case of the young lady who was fitted with hearing aid, she was just very quiet and not socially interactive, but she had a pretty severe hearing loss that would explain that she wasn't really hearing much. But someone who has a more mild loss or, for example, when I presented on that paper at different conferences, interestingly, I've had parents come up to me and tell me they experienced that they found out like six months later their child had a hearing loss from the injury. And then I had a couple physicians at different places tell me kids can have their ossicular chain broken like if they have an impact of the side of the head and nobody thinks to examine that and that would be conductive hearing loss because that's what conducts the sound that would be kind of like having an ear infection if that's broken. So, hearing a lot of stories we need to do more research to show what's really happening. Our study is very small end but I'm hoping that it gets accepted where we submitted it so it gets the message out. [AMANDA] Thank you so much I think that probably comments would continue to come in but I know we're short on time. We really do appreciate you taking the time to answer all of these questions and listen to these comments and stories and your presentation and the work you've been doing is phenomenal. So thank you so much we do appreciate it. [JULIE] I appreciate hearing about all the teachers, what everybody's experience and interest though thank you. [AMANDA] all right well, thank you all so much for joining us 