 Hello, my name is Michael Goard and I'm an assistant professor at UC Santa Barbara in the departments of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology and Psychological and Brain Sciences. Today I'm going to tell you a little bit about some work both in my lab and also in the field in general, in the field that you may or may not have heard of called systems or circuits neuroscience. I'm really excited about this field because we're getting a lot of new technology that's allowing us to look at neural activity in unprecedented detail, and we're learning a lot about how the brain functions. This is going to be useful both for understanding in a basic science manner how it works, but also for trying to correct dysfunctions in neural activity. In this talk I'm going to cover a few major topics the first thing I'm going to cover is why are we interested in studying neural circuits? Why do they matter? I'm going to argue that they brain servers have a link between the biology of the neurons, the cells in our brain, and cognition. The second topic is how do we study the neural circuits? I'm going to take a bit of a left turn and talk about some of the tools of the trades that we use to investigate neurons and circuits of neurons and how they work. Then finally, I'm going to talk a little bit about some of the work from my own lab using some of the techniques I talk about to investigate neural circuits involved in spatial processing. What do neuroscientists study? There's a whole range. You probably know already neuroscientists study the brain, but there's a whole range of different levels at which we can study the brain. For example, we can look at the level of molecular and cellular events trying to understand how particular proteins in the neurons allow it to function in order to become electrically excited and signal to other neurons in order to change its connection strength with other neurons and so on. Then there is this more intermediate level where it's looking at how systems of neurons have worked together, how they wire up and connect to each other in order to do particular computations. Then finally, there's the most macro level, what's called cognitive neuroscience, which is where we're looking at whole brain networks and how they act together during cognitive behavior, so for example, when someone is reading or doing a memory task, which brain areas become excited. This is often uses fMRI, for example. Now, I set these apart as three different special skills but of course its a smooth spectrum and all of these interact with each other. For example, drugs that work on molecular mechanisms might end up affecting cognition and when you learn something it ends up affecting molecular level events in the cell. Now in my talking specifically talk about this circuit systems level, and again, this is because we're really starting to get some new tools just in the last couple of decades that allow us to get unprecedented access to the nervous system. Try to figure out what's going on. Why are neural circuits important? If you were to open up your smart phone or laptop, I don't necessarily recommend doing this, but if you feel confident doing it, you would see something that looks like this. A printed circuit board with a bunch of electronic components on it. Now even if you know nothing about electronics, you probably know that if you just plucked all those components off and put them in a pile like this, you won't get any interesting behavior anymore. You won't be able to run Microsoft Word or your text message to your friend. Well the brain is pretty much the same way. We tend to think of it as this big hunk of undifferentiated tissue just what it looks like from the outside. But if you zoom in at the microscopic scale, each of these brain cells is actually very carefully organized and connected to its partners. For example, this is a slice of a structure called the hippocampus from the mouse brain. This is a structure, it's very important for forming new memories as well as special cognition, and this is a special transgenic mice in which each of the neurons expresses a different colored fluorescent protein. You can see that all of these neurons are arranged in orderly rows. They all have these processes called dendrites that extend down this way and it turns out they're all connected in very particular ways. For example, all of these neurons are getting inputs from these neurons down here, which in turn get inputs from this band of cells over here and there's a very well-defined circuit here and if the circuit is disrupted, then the hippocampus doesn't do what it normally does. This has serious consequences for memory formation and other cognitive processes. Just like the computer circuit board needs to be wired correctly in order to function correctly, the brain is much the same way. What is it that these sophisticated neural circuits kind of allow us to do? What cognitive functions do we get out of them. I just wanted to give you some examples from across the animal kingdom from different places and evolutionary tree. I didn't pick this story by accident. Many of them are models that neuroscientists use in order to study the brain and the simplest is here on the left. This is the C elegans, which was the first organism in which we actually mapped all of the neurons and how they're connected to each other. We actually know there's exactly 302 neurons and we know how they're connected to each other. Since then there's been one or two other simple organisms that they've been working on figuring out this same connectivity diagram. As you get into organisms with larger brains it such become harder and harder to fully map them out, and that's because we no longer have the exact same neurons. Two humans don't have the same complimentary set of neurons, they'll often have different numbers and it's more probabilistic how these connections get formed and what types of neurons they have. As we get these more complicated brains, you get many more complicated and probabilistic structures. That's part of what makes it so hard to figure out how they work. Now, why do some species have these larger brains? You might think that's obvious like well, of course it makes you smarter, lets you do more things, and that's true, but there's also will cost to having a bigger brain. There are metabolically very expensive, you may not realize this, but your brain despite being about a few percent of your body weight, uses up about 20 percent of the energy you consume. They're also very developmentally expensive. A mouse, for example, a baby mouse is ready to go about a month after it's born. It's completely independent. A worm or a drosophila, which is just a fruit fly, is independent even sooner, while human takes about 18 years, give or take a few years before it becomes independent, some never become independent. There's a real cost when you have these big brains that takes a long time to get them set up and develop them and get them fully trained. Let's take the simplest example of the C elegans roundworm. What do these simple nervous systems allow us to accomplish? Well, the simplest nervous systems are principally and is probably why the nervous system evolve is simply an input, output device that takes in some sensory inputs. For example, like chemicals in the environment that might be tasty or something you want to avoid, and it instructs motor action. If you look at the nervous system of this C elegans have about 302 neurons, and some of these neurons are involved in sensation. Those are the blue neurons over here. Some of the neurons are involved in motor action. Those are the yellow neurons over here, but you also have some neurons that are in-between. They're neither sensory neurons nor motor neurons, but they're connected to both and those are these orange neurons here and they're called inner neurons and they allow the organism to do more complex things. For example, even this worm, which has a very simple nervous system, it isn't just an input, output device. It doesn't always react the same way to environmental stimuli, but it can act differently depending on its internal state. For example, if it's hungry it might respond differently to a food Q than if it's not hungry. As we get into more complex brains, this becomes even more the case. As organisms get bigger and bigger, you would expect there to be more brain cells simply because you have more sensors on your body, you have more muscles that you need to control and sure enough, there's an orderly relationship between an organism's mass, at least invertebrates, and its brain size. However, there are some surprises. You can actually predict how big a brain an organism should have based on its mass and you find that there are some animals that have less or more than you would expect. This is often quantified as the encephalization quotient. It's basically the amount of brain mass an organism has divided by how much you would expect given its size. Some animals, particularly humans are way over-represented in how much brain they have versus what you'd expect given their size. We end up having about 7.5 times as much brains as you would expect. If you look at some of these other animals that are over-represented, you'll see that they also tend to be animals that we think of as being smart, having complex behavior. Dolphins, chimpanzees, gorillas, et cetera. For those of you who are cat people noticed that dogs edge out cats. But of course this is very simplistic and we can't take this too literally as a measure of the intelligence of an organism. Needless to say that there are certain organisms that seem to have a gross overrepresentation of brain size relative to the size of their bodies, so why is this? Is it because they have more sensors or more muscles? No, it really is being over-represented or all these inter-neurons that I was talking about, the ones that aren't directly for sensing or for enacting motor actions, but the ones that mediating processes in between. What are these doing? Well, some of it might be for getting more complex sensory perception so for example, the ability to recognize your friend rather than simply reacting to light. Or some of it might be for more complex motor action. Learning how to play the piano, for example, as opposed to just doing basic and green like walking behaviors. However, we think some of it is actually involved in more complex representations or kind of divorced from either sensory or motor action. For example, the ability to remember things that happened a while ago, or even to have internal representations of the external world they're not dependent on your immediate sensory input. What do I mean by an internal representation? It sounds like a out there psychological idea. But it's actually quite simple and intuitive. The idea is that, even when something is outside of our sensory view, we can still perceive it as being there. Babies actually learn this quite quickly. If you take a ball from them and you put it behind a board and then you knock the board on top of it, they are not surprised at all when the board doesn't fall all the way down, but it lands on this ball. If you put a trapdoor here so that the board actually falls all the way down, they get surprised and they can measure that in various ways that we'll get into. However, this doesn't happen right away. They actually learn it through experience. There's a specific developmental stage at which say learn this. It turns out we learn all kinds of intuitive physics about the world, how the world works. You know that if I drop this pointer, it's going to go down and not float up in the air and this is very useful and this doesn't just apply to sensory things like in this case. But we have abstract rules about what's legal and illegal in our society or about social relationships and all these things. We're able to represent things abstractly. Now, notice that animals don't have to do this in order to be successful at survival. For example, rather than perceiving the world as these objects that maintain their mass and everything even if they're out of view, you can just build a system where, for example, you see something that has a certain characteristic and then you eat it. For example, the frog has a structure called the optic tectum, which is involved in sensing small dark spots on a light background, which usually corresponds to a fly or an insect, and then it goes for it. Here's a video showing exactly how that works. You can see they do it quite well, these little ants drifting across the screen. Even though it's not getting any tasty morsels, they'll keep on doing this because their brain is basically just been trained up in such a way that when you see this black spot, you eat it. You may laugh and think that the frog is being dumb, but you'll see that this strategy is actually quite successful. You eventually hit spader. This type of sensory processing works quite well. Many of these species I mentioned have been around a lot longer than humans have and will continue to be around even after we're gone. We shouldn't make fun of them. But I should also note that the internal representations aren't unique to humans. Many critters have them including insects and frogs. But what I can say is that humans have more complex internal representations. Hopefully I don't have to argue that. Now I'm going to take a bit of a left turn. I talked a little bit about how we have these internal representations that allow us to understand our world. Now we want to know how do we actually study this? Clearly this is not going to be mediated by single neurons, by entire circuits full of neurons. We need a way to be able to measure neural activity. While animals are doing various cognitive processes, we need to be able to manipulate the activity of these neurons in order to see if we can disrupt these processes. We need to be able to visualize these neurons, see where they are, how they form the various circuits that they do. This is where the tools come in. This is something that really wasn't around when people first started studying the brain, and as a result, we were able to make limited progress. But as we have developed more sophisticated tools, we've been able to really dive in and understand how these different circuits work. One of these tools I'm going to talk about is genetic modification. You probably learned about this a little bit in one of your biology classes. The stability to add, remove, or alter target genes in specific cells, and that's really important. We can do it only in some neurons, not others, only in one brain cell type and not another brain cell type in order to figure out how things are working. How do we actually do this? There's two general approaches. The first is that we can infect the cell with a virus. Typically we just inject the virus directly into the animal's brain. You may think this is awful. Why would we do this? That's because you know what viruses typically do, which is they glom onto cells, they inject their DNA or some RNA into the cell that gets incorporated and ends up making more copies of the virus, which then break open the cell and spread around. Unfortunately, right now we're in the middle of a pandemic caused by one of these viruses. However, viruses can also be very useful for scientists. Of course there are a lot of negative things that come about from viruses, but we can actually engineer them in order to work for us rather than against us. The way we do that is we change the DNA or RNA that's inside the virus. Instead of making more copies of itself, instead it makes proteins that are useful for us. For example, we can put in a sequence of DNA that will cause it to express a protein which is fluorescent. In fact, this is very commonly done. We took a fluorescent protein from jellyfish and we put the sequencing for that protein so that the cell will then make copies of this green fluorescent protein, and we can see where that cell is. We also have transgenic mice. I'm not going to get into the details here in the interest of time, but the idea here is rather than injecting a virus and we actually manipulate the germline so that the mice will express different genes that they wouldn't ordinarily. Again, this allows us to get specific proteins that the mice wouldn't normally express. We can mutate the proteins or we can have them express proteins from other organisms like jellyfish, under the control of genetic drivers. For example, we can put them just in the neurons that release dopamine or just in glia cells or in some other way that allows us to do the experiments we want to do. A couple of examples of that. First a very obvious example, here they express this green fluorescent protein I was telling you about from the jellyfish in the skin of the mice. You can see one of the parents was positive first gene, the other one is negative. You can see which pups inherited the positive alleles. We can also express this green fluorescent protein in neurons. This is again in the hippocampus, that area I showed you earlier. Depending on what genetic driver you use, you can get either dense expression across all the cells, very sparse expression so you get only the single cells, which allows you to zoom in and see the microstructure. They have these little bumps on them called spines where they receive inputs from other neurons. This really allows us to label cells in a comprehensive way. Most recently we've actually, some other labs have developed approaches for clarifying intact tissue. Rather than having to slice it up or dissect things, we can actually look at relatively intact tissue and see where all the different types of neurons are. This is allowing us to develop brain atlases where we can look at different cell types and know where they're located and how they connect to other regions. For example, this is a brain here before it's had anything applied to it, and then after this technique for obvious reasons, is named clarity. You can actually read texts through the brain. What they've done is actually replaced the lipids with hydrogels in order to make it transparent. Once you do that, you can actually, this is zooming in through that same hippocampus region. They've used different colors to label different cell types. We can start to get an idea of how all these cells are arranged within the hippocampus. In the interest of time, I won't be able to talk about this, but there are a number of other approaches, including those using electron microscopy, which are also mapping out the brain in very exquisite detail. We're hoping to put this all together into resources where we can use it. Where if you want to study a brain region, you know where all the inputs and outputs of that brain region are and you know what cell types are there. It's very helpful in doing your experiments. In addition to mapping brain structures, we don't think that just mapping them alone is going to be sufficient to understand what's actually going on. In order to really understand what's going on, you need to observe the neurons and actually see what they're responding to. A lot of neuroscientists are working on ways to actually measure the activity. There are a number of ways to do this. The traditional way is actually put an electrode into the brain so we can record the electrical activity from them. But I'm going to talk about a newer one. What's nice about this one is you can do it in a relatively non-invasive way because it's using purely optical techniques. This is using, again, a genetic trick in order to make the neurons blink when they become active. How does this work? We take a green fluorescent protein. This is, again, our green fluorescent protein which was originally isolated from jellyfish. It's been modified in such a way that it's calcium sensitive. So it's brighter when there's high calcium, and less bright when there's low calcium. Why would we do this? Well, it turns out that neurons, when they become excited and they fire action potentials and communicate with other neurons, there's a big influx of calcium. We actually see this as the neurons blinking as they become active. This is actually recording from my lab in which you seen neurons becoming active. In this case, we're showing them a visual stimulus and they're lighting up as they see things. This is in the visual cortex so they're responding to certain things in the visual field. What's nice about this is, again, because it's genetic, we can actually build it into the mouse lines. There are transgenic mice which express these green fluorescent proteins that have been modified in different types of neurons. This is one that expresses an excitatory neurons. You can see the whole brain, this is looking down on top, glows bright green. However, it would normally be very hard. The brain is a highly scattering tissue and we can't make it transparent in a living mouse. Normally it'd be very hard to see what these neurons are doing in an intact organism. Ultimately we want to be able to do this in animals that are behaving and moving around, and so this is where some technology comes in. Earlier we borrowed from molecular biology, but here we're actually borrowing from physics and engineering. We've develop these microscopes in which we can actually shoot light deep into the tissue in order to read out the neural activity without having to dissect it in any way. One example, this is a light sheet microscope. I'm actually going to skip past that. But I'll talk more about this. This is a two-photon microscope. The idea here, the reason it's called a two photon microscope, is we're shooting IR light which passes through the tissue and then where the photons are focused, they run into each other and there's an interaction which will excite fluorescence even though it passes through all the other tissue. As a result, we can image relatively deep into the brain without needing to dissect any of the top layers off. This is actually a light sheet microscope, which I won't go into. You can only image transparent organisms, and they have to be fixed. But this is a zebrafish being imaged. You can see there's several thousands of neurons that are all being imaged simultaneously. This is a very cool technique. But for the organisms, we're interested in mice, we use the two-photon microscopy. Just to give you an example of how we're doing this, again, we want to be able to study these animals while they're awake, and behaving, and hopefully having some interesting internal representation. What my lab is studying right now is how animals map the space around them. How they use their sensory input to figure out where they are in space. How do we do this? The mice need to actually be still while we're imaging them. What we do is we actually move the world around them. We have them walking around on a floating chamber. This chamber is actually being floated on essentially an air hockey table. It moves around them and they can explore, and sniff around, and do all the things that mice do. Meanwhile, without them even knowing that we're doing this, we can image their neural activity. Right now we're imaging this area called the hippocampus. You see all these blinking cells. This is the band of cells I showed you way back at the beginning of the talk. This is another area of the hippocampus called the dentate gyrus. You can see the activity of these cells. We know from old experiments that these cells respond when the animals are in a particular place in the environment. This is a couple of examples here. This is a representation of our circular chamber. This neuron, for example, always becomes active when the animal is in this location within the chamber. They basically have a map of the animals local space encoded in the activity of their cells. We can use that to read out the internal representations in the animal's brain. That's how we can use the measurement of neural activity to try to figure out what's going on. How can we actually do causal experiments? If we figure out that some regions seems to be important for something, we want to really test, if you take those neurons offline, does that disrupt behavior in some way, or if you stimulate them artificially, can you artificially evoke that activity? For doing that, we needed a technique for manipulating cells. Traditionally, the only way to do it was, people would stick electrodes in and zap a bunch of tissues, kind of a mess, you hit all sorts of neurons, whether or not you mean to. But recently, again, using genetic tricks, we've gotten more specific ways to manipulate neural activity. What we've done is again, we borrowed from nature. We took these proteins that were from other organisms. Often, these are coming from algae, bacteria, even archaea, which are these extremophiles that leave live in high salt environments. These are proteins that are responsive to light. What we do is we take them and we artificially express them in neurons. We can then shine light which normally doesn't enter the brain, and we can even do at different wavelengths like blue and yellow, and use it to excite or inhibit the cells. For example, this is a neuron that's expressing both excitatory and inhibitory opsin. When you shine blue light, it starts firing these little blips called action potentials. That's how their neuron signals other neurons. Then when you shine the yellow light, it stops firing action potentials. We have had bidirectional control over the neurons. Usually we just do one or the other, but you can do bidirectional control as well. You may think, okay, why is this useful? Well, just to give you an example of how it can help you figure out what neurons do, this is a mouse in which they took some neurons which belong in an area called the hypothalamus. It was known for some time that these neurons get active when the animal is really thirsty. For example, if you restrict their water for a little while, these neurons seem to undergo a lot of gene expression which suggested that they were active. What these researchers did is they actually put this optogenetics pro, they put channelrhodmpsin in there, so that when they shine blue light it will artificially excite these neurons. This is a mouse, and there's a little fiber optic cable which is going to shine blue light. It's not on yet. The light gets turned on right now, and then you'll see that the mouse beelines over and go straight for the water. There was no interest in the water beforehand and as soon as the light goes on and the mouse wants nothing other than drinking continuously. As soon as the light turns off, loses interests. These neurons seem to directly control the sensation of thirst that the mouse has. Just to give you one more example, this one's a little scarier. They actually found neurons that seemed to control aggression. These are also in this area called the hypothalamus, and when you excite these neurons the mouse which, right now they're putting this little rubber glove in here, latex glove, and the mouse doesn't care, until they turn a light on, and then the mouse starts attacking this glove. It allows the researchers to figure out exactly which neurons are underlying what we think are these relatively complex behaviors. How do we do this, to look at something more cognitive, to look at spatial perception? Now, I wanted to get to a little work in my lab and I'll have to move quickly here. But I want to talk a little bit about how we're using this. We became very interested in how the brain recalls familiar context in order to guide motor actions. For example, when you walk out of your house and you're trying to get to work, you see a familiar landmark, and you're like, oh, I've to turn right here in order to get to where I'm going. We tried to simplify this as much as possible. We didn't actually want the mice running around because then there's all kinds of other spatial signals which might be confusing. We actually basically taught them mice to do a video game, in which they go down one of two mazes, and depending on which maize they see, they have to choose to turn right or to turn left. But again, we didn't want them actually moving, so all they're doing is rotating a joystick. You can think of this like riding a bike or driving a car, or playing a very simple video game. You're just selecting your route, but you're not actually physically moving in any way. This is what it looks like when the mouse does it. The mouse is down here and you see their little four paws are on the joystick, and as they go through the maze, they stop at the junction, and then you have to choose which way to go in order to get the reward. This mouse is well trained, so it gets the reward pretty much every time. Believe it or not, it takes a month or two to train the mice to do this, but i had to do that at a pretty high accuracy. So not perfect, they're about 80 percent correct, but eventually they do pretty well at this task. Now, we wanted to see which brain region is really important for doing this and can we figure out something about the circuit underlying the behavior? The first thing we did is we wanted to look very closely at the neural activity across the cortex, which is the top part of the mouse's brain. We used this microscope we built in the lab, that allows us to image, again, this is through the mouse's skull, so they have no idea where doing this while they perform the task, and allow us to see all these different brain regions. Perhaps, unsurprisingly, there was a whole bunch of different brain regions that lit up. When the mouse performed the task, there's the visual areas, they're are seeing a pattern, there's motor areas when they turned to joystick. We wanted to look for a simply at are there particular regions that seem to be more active when the mouse performs correctly and particularly before they actually make their decision, because before they know whether they even got it right or not. It turns out that there's this one area, and you can see it's near the midline of the cortex that is more active when they're performing the task correctly. This is an area called the retrosplenial cortex. This was an area that really interested us, because it gets a lot of inputs from spatial areas as well as sensory areas and has outputs to areas controlling motor action. It seemed like a really good place for tying together the sensory input and the memory and then using it to guide the action the correct way. We also know that if you lesion this area, they have problems with spatial navigation. Is true in humans as well. How did we test if this area is really important? Again, we used causal experiments in order to see what was going on. We injected a virus that expressed an RQ rhodopsin. What this does is actually suppresses a cell when you shine light on it. We express it just in retrosplenial cortex, so you can see that in the red, we also put a red fluorescent protein there just we can visualize it. We found that when we shine a light, we suppress the activity just in retrosplenial cortex without affecting the other regions. If you look at performance on the trials in which we shine the light, they did much worse in your chance, actually slightly below chance compared to trials in which we didn't shine it. Well, if you just shine a light alone without having the virus in there, then they performed similarly to the normal case. This showed us that this area is really important. Next we wanted to look at the individual neurons to see if we could figure out what was going on. Here again, we have the mice performing the task, but we use our two-photon microscope to actually look at the individual neurons and their retrosplenial cortex while they were performing the task. What we found is sure enough, particular neurons responded in different ways during the task. Some of them, preferred the yellow dash maze, others performed the blue diagonal line maze, some of them responded to both of them, but with slightly different dynamics. Then using a bunch of computational approaches, which I won't get into, we also borrow a lot from math and computer science, we are able to decode different parts of the task just based on the neural activity. We can see where the mouse was encoding, what their sensory contexts was, where they're encoding their motor action, and where they're encoding the outcome, whether they got it right or not. For example, we found in the posterior part of the retrospinal cortex in the back of the brain, that's where they seem to be encoding the context that they were viewing. While the motor action started posterior, but then actually moved anterior as they actually started turning the joystick. We did anatomy experiments showing that the visual input is actually coming into the posterior and then an output to the motor areas are leaving from the anterior area, which wasn't really known before. We're basically working out this circuit by which the animal is able to receive sensory input, associate it with a memory and then use it to control its actions. Of course, this is going to be useful for understanding what goes wrong when people have damage to this area, the retrospinal cortex. Now, it's pretty rare to have lesions in this area. However, it is one of the first areas that degrade during Alzheimer's disease. During neurodegeneration this could be responsible for some of the symptoms that underlie getting lost, for example, or having problems especially navigating. We're trying to figure out exactly how the circuit works. To summarize, the field has developed a lot of powerful new techniques that allow us to examine neural circuits even in behaving animals. This will allow us to understand some of the neural activity that underlies complex behaviors. I just wanted to give you a couple of examples to leave off with of ways in which we've used our knowledge in order to build new therapeutic devices. This first one is a patient who unfortunately suffers from Parkinson's disease. If you're not familiar with that, I'm sure you've all heard the name Parkinson's, but it results from the death of dopamine neurons that project to the basal ganglia, and it results in these characteristic tremors and inability to control or use motor action. It was discovered that if you stimulate a different part of the circuit, you can actually relieve the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. This patients actually has electrodes that have been planted into this area. Right now the physician is using this interface in order to turn on the stimulating electrodes. You'll see what happens once he manages to turn on the electrodes. Almost immediately the tremor cease and the patient is now able to do quite agile movements with our hands. This is quite an incredible relief of symptoms. Again, this is only possible because we know the circuitry underlying this disorder. Finally, one more example. This is a four year-old girl who has unfortunately lost her hearing from birth, and she's just been implanted with a cochlear implant, which directly stimulates the neurons in her cochlea. Here she is hearing for the first time. Can you you hear mum? Yeah. You can hear me clearly? Yeah. You can hear what I'm saying? Oh, gosh, this thing is still burning, I can't hear my voice. You couldn't hear your voice before. No. That gets me every time. You couldn't? No. Hopefully, you got a taste for some of the techniques the neuroscientists are using and also, why we are investigating neural circuits. I hope you enjoyed the talk, and thank you for listening. 