 (heartfelt piano music) - Hi, I'm Patrick, and welcome to Tillett. We make hand printed textiles for the Interiors Trade for now over four generations. I'm the fourth generation. I have a lot of fun, and color is our life. So with all silk screening, you first have break the screen in. We usually do that on a separate piece of fabric, and then we go and we print the material. That ensures an perfect and even print. (heartfelt piano music) You start with one print, and then you skip a panel and you do the next print. And that's ultimately so that the outside edge or the frame doesn't affect the print that you just did. So every pattern has a slightly different print repeat, and so the stops are put on the rail so that the table can be set up to print each specific pattern. So here we are in the factory. You'll see these rows of fabrics behind me. They're basically all of our archived fabrics. Fabrics that have been made from the 50s all the way up through 'til about 2000. We keep them here just as a reference or in case we want some inspiration. Nothing at Tillett gets discontinued, so it's pretty amazing to be able to recreate things that have been done generations ago. So amongst these fabrics, there are some that have been made by my grandmother and grandfather. They became dear friends with Jackie Kennedy. Helped make fabrics for the White House. For many of the Kennedy homes around the world. This material, very special in our hearts, was created originally for the White House master bedroom. So here we are, ready to create this Jackie's Daisy. Jackie's Daisy has really three process to it. It's first printed in white, then Bob will use this can which is a hand drag can. And it ultimately will put color onto the fabric by walking backwards. And then we'll put the final print on top of it. (heartfelt piano music) - We first coat it once, and then we coat it again. And when we coat it again it not only hides the overlap marks, it makes the color even more saturated. So from time-to-time I actually get a chance to work with my mom. KT. The amazing keeper of the flame. - I love it. I'm happiest when I'm printing. (heartfelt piano music) - So this spot is home to all of our patterns. I can spend hours up here and come across a pattern that I never saw before. So that's pretty cool. They date back all the way until like the early 50s. This happens to be a screen that is an original screen. So you can see that it's wooden rather than metal. Another really cool thing is that these are all labeled with the textile union plaque. So you know they're totally legit. Sometimes what I'll do is I will fish out a pattern, kind of say 'I think we need to look at this. I think we need to work on it'. This is one of those particular patterns. It was drawn by my grandmother. It's just sort of bouquets of flowers. You can see with the light behind it what the pattern will look like. Considering the fact that some patterns have two or three screens, some patterns have one or two screens, you know, I definitely feel like we're in the several hundreds of patterns in this room. This spot is really my happy place. (heartfelt piano music) 