 Hello and welcome to the Dell Networking Infrastructure Solutions team. In this video, we will be looking at deploying SmartFabric Services for VxRail. This topology will be used for this SmartFabric services VxRail demo. The first rack consists of two S5248F switches and three VxRail nodes that connect using a Layer 3 routed uplink to an existing DNS NTP infrastructure. The extension of SmartFabric Services to multi-rack can be found in the Dell EMC Networking SmartFabric Services Deployment with VxRail guide available on the infohub.delltechnologies.com website. The first step is to identify which switches will be the first leaf pair. This is done using the service tags of the switches. Also, we verify that the switches are in Full Switch mode. Next, SmartFabric Services is enabled. This is done using the “smartfabric l3fabric enable role LEAF vlti ethernet 1/1/49-1/1/52” command. The two QSFP28-DD ports on the S5248F switch are used for the VLTi and must be specified when enabling SFS on the leaf switches. The management ip address and management route of each switch is also set at the CLI. The switches will enter SFS mode and then reboot. It will take 5-10 minutes for the switches to reload and complete the fabric build out. This includes electing one of the switches as the master and starting the required services to operate in SmartFabric Services mode. SmartFabric Services can be verified with the “show switch-operating-mode” and “show smartfabric cluster” command. This will identify which switch is the master switch as well as indicate that all configurations have been applied and the embedded SmartFabric Services UI is ready and available on the master switch. Open a web browser and launch the embedded SFS UI using the master switch IP Address First, we will update the default names and descriptions for the fabric and the switches to user unique names. All uplink interfaces used in this example are 40GbE. Each interface has been broken out from 100GbE to 40GbE using Option 1 Breakout Switch Ports. This step is only required if a non-default port speed is being used. Also interface 11 will be used for the jump host and needs to be broken out from 25GbE to 10GbE. Once all of the interfaces are broken out the Jump host port will be configured using option 2 configure Jump Host. Interface 1/1/11:1 will be selected and placed on the client management network. Each VxRail node is automatically discovered and also onboarded in the client management network. After the Jump Host is configured and connectivity to the VxRail Manager verified we will connect the fabric to the existing network for all north-south traffic and provide external network connectivity to the VxRail Nodes. Select Create Uplink for External Network Connectivity. from the SFS UI home page. The values in this table will be used to create the L3 routed networks. Configure the point to point interfaces, and the eBGP routing policies. When all of the L3 uplink are created, the created networks can be viewed in the SFS UI. Also the switch CLI will be used to verify all connections. The “show ip bgp summary , show ip interface brief, and show ip route” commands will be used on both Leaf1A and External-A. At this point the fabric is deployed and ready for VxRail Cluster deployment. Launch the VxRail Manager using a web browser and connect to the default IP of the VxRail Manager at 192.168.10.200 and accept the EULA. Now you will see that the VxRail Manager has automatically detected that it is connected to SmartFabric Switch cluster. Confirm if you want to automate the switch cluster as part of VxRail Deployment and click Next. Now the user will be prompted to change the default password for the Rest_User account used by VxRail Manager to communicate with the SFS master using REST APIs. Next continue using the VxRail Manager normally to build the VxRail cluster. Once all the configurations are completed, the option to “Configure Switch” will be presented. At this point, you can review the configuration that will be automatically applied to the fabric and then apply the configuration. VxRail Manager will automatically program the fabric to onboard the VxRail nodes on to the fabric with the required network settings. To allow for DNS resolution the user must navigate back to the SFS UI after selecting configure switch. Once at the SFS UI, all of the newly created networks are visible. They can also be viewed via the switch CLI. The Management Network, vni1811 in this example, needs to have an IPv4 address assigned to it. This is done using option 3 Update Network Configurations. The Management network vni 1811 is chosen, the IPv4 radial button selected, and the necessary values entered. An IP address needs to be entered for each leaf switch in the fabric. This fabric will be expanded to two racks so IP addresses are entered for the future two leaf switches. Once the IP addresses are configured, they can be verified via the switch CLI as well as the routing tables verified. Now you can proceed to complete the validation and VxRail cluster build using the VxRail Manager. With this you have completed deploying SmartFabric Services, configured a L3 routed uplink and deployed VxRail. 