 People come to ISPO. They need to start somewhere because time is important. So they come straight away to the ISPO trends. They want to see the new things, what this jury thinks. Well, what does it look like? What is the color? Because people want to keep it for a long time. Now we have to look for both: The fashionability and the performance together. Plus the third factor, which is on everybodys mind at the moment, which is sustainability and environmental production. So it is a tripple axle discussion." It is an important starting point. It is an important focusing. So you can see, what is new, what is going on. And everybody needs a place to start." Welcome to ISPO Textrends. This is the platform, where we start sourcing for the following season. Here today I am going to share with you the new developments, that have been submitted by the global textile industry and selected by the international textile jury. We have ten sectors ranging from insulation, which are very important ingredients for winter sports. Right through to baselayer, outerlayer, street sports, soft equipment and trims. So let me share with you today and show you the latest developments. I am now on A. Sampaio & Filhos stand. It is a Portuguese company. They have participated in ISPO Textrends. What is interesting about this company is, not only are they European, but they also are specialized in sustainability combined with performance. So this is one of the sequel developments and new in recycled polyester from ocean waste. Perfect for active outdoor. Hi David. Hello, how are you? Fine, thanks. How are you? Good. Nice jacket. Thank you very much. So, tell me about the latest developments with Polartec. Well, I am wearing one right now. This is Power Air. It was engineered specifically to reduce micro fiber shedding. Oh fantastic. When you touch it, it is well, a feeling of bubble wrap, like you can feel the air in the little pockets. So you just want to touch and squeeze them. What we did is we took encapsulated air into lock of fibres, that are typically on the outside of the garment. They trap in holed hot air, which is such a great warming insulator. We took those lock of fibres and put them inside the fabric construction. Therefore it protects them and keep them from shedding. And from testing, that we have created right now, we are looking about 5 times less than a typical fleece in turns of fibres they dismiss.” Great, thank you very much. You are very welcome. I see you soon. Thank you. This is a prime example of what we see developing in the textile industry. A collaborative approach through the textile chain with the brands increasing smart textiles and benefits to the wearer. Tell me a bit more about the membrane technology used in this jacket and how important it is and what it actually does? Hydro-Bot is an active system. So as soon the as moisture hits the panel, it is actively pulls through. He uses the process of electro-Osmosis, which means we have conducted the fabrics on the inside, we have a membrane in between and to a plus/minus pole within the fabric you are pulling water molecules outside the jacket. And in an incredible speed. So, this all connects to the app to control the performance for personalized use. You have it connected. And very interesting is a sweat monitor, that calibrates based on outside temperature, it is -4°C right now, the current humidity. And then it determines based on how much sweat is hitting the panel. Ok, great. Thank you very much. Sure. Glad, that I can help. This product first called my attention. Basically FENC, Far Eastern New Century, is one of the leading textile companies. And not only do they develop the textiles for wearable technology, it is really interesting because it allows consumers to compete on an online platform. That really highlights digitalization, that ISPO is pursuing. And it infects all the industry. Ok, without the fibre industry we would not have any of the great textiles we have in ISPO Textrends. There are five products selected by the international textile jury at ISPO Textrends. And this is one of the products. They have made it into a concept garment. It is a woven fabric with a coated finish. It has really got a great hand to it. And will have DWR, so it is durable water resistant with Pallet Finishing. And a very light weight parka jacket they have created. Thank you for joining me for this journey through ISPO Textrends today. Without all these fabulous ingredients and developments we would not have any end products. We look forward to seeing you next year. 