 My dear elegant ladies. Welcome back to my channel! Today I want to share with you some of my best but most elegant fashion hacks that you can really do on a budget. So this is for all of you ladies who want to level up your image, who wants to look more expensive, but not necessarily have to break the bank for it. I run an online finishing school where I teach women about their transformation, so if you're interested in that visit. www.SchoolOfAffluence.com. Now, it's actually a really good time for me to make this video because we are approaching sale season. I would personally say the winter sale is by far the best sale of the year. I don't believe so much in the summer sale or the black Friday sale, but I definitely love the winter sale. Before in the past, I used to truly only maybe shop a few times a year and it would always be during the winter sale. Because truly, you get the best bargains at this time. But I do want to share with you some of my tips because I really think now is the time for you, especially those of you who do not have a big budget to spend. And perhaps, you want to elevate your wardrobe. You want to buy items that are of better quality, that are perhaps more expensive, but you don't usually have the money for these items. I'm definitely thinking about luxury shopping, luxury items, even if it's something that is just in the mid-range bracket. But truly ladies, now is a time for you to figure out what is it that I need in my wardrobe, what items will elevate me to the next level? What are kind of the key items that will help me improve my overall look? So first of all, you actually need to really think about these things because once you kind of do a little analysis of your overall wardrobe, what's missing, what's already there, what will truly compliment the existing items that you already have and just really make you look so much better. Once you have figured that out, you know, okay, I need X, Y, Z. So I will use the opportunity now, the sale is coming. I'm going to make sure that I find exactly what I need during this time, instead of just going in and impulse shop all kinds of different things that you're not going to end up wearing. One of the big issues with sale is actually  the fact that we tend to buy so much rubbish during sale. We tend to buy things that, so not our style. We tend to buy things that we think we will be wearing, but we ended up not wearing it because a. it doesn't suit us b.we were compromising on it or  c. we didn't actually really love it. I really advocate for only purchasing items that you really love, love, love, love, items that really make you feel like $1 million when you wear it. Not items that make you be like, Hmm, I don't know. What's the point of spending money on something that doesn't make you feel, wow? I think, it's really important to have a wardrobe full of wow items only. So you need to figure out, what are those wow items going to be. Perhaps you already have a few items in your wardrobe that whenever you put them on, you truly feel like your best self.  If so, what are they? Think a little bit about that because that can give you a clue. My wow items are usually a really nice pair of trousers that makes you look slim, tall, really long legs and you have a perfect butt and so on. Those trousers can really make me feel like the King of the castle whenever I go out. So then I know for instance that whenever I have to go and shop, I really have to look for if I need trousers, those type of wow trousers that really make me feel like my best. And now, I actually managed to figure out a way how to spot these type of garments and I don't buy any other type of trousers unless they're wow trousers. Now I spoken in my previous videos about colors and colors is of course, really important and I do encourage all of you to do a color analysis that I I have personally done. As you might know, I studied image consulting not long ago, where I also became qualified as a color consultant. I won't be teaching the full spectrum of color analysis because truly, you cannot do it all the way just over the screen or online in the sense. You can do the kind of 80% version, which is actually quite good enough, but doing the full blown color analysis, I really recommend all of you to actually go to color consultant and get your colors made for you. There is a good a company who does that, they're called, Color Me Beautiful. I know there's another company called, House of Color. But the problem with House of Color is that they don't take your hair color into account when they do a color analysis and that becomes a problem. Because actually, one of the biggest contributors to your colors is actually your hair color. If you exclude your hair color, then you're actually not going to have your true colors made. So that's my little tip when it comes to getting your colors. Actually, they're not really that expensive. And doing a color analysis doesn't have to cost you a fortune either. There is a link in the description box below. You can go and look for a color consultant where you live. So why did I want to talk about color analysis? Well, that's because when you go shopping and especially during the sale, it is so important that when you go and navigate throughout the store, you make sure you know already what are your best colors, what are your wow colors and you just truly skip everything else that is not applicable to you. That's actually how we end up saving ourselves a headache when we go shopping. And that's why I go into an image consultant or to call a consultant and get advice on how to dress and what colors to wear. It actually helps so much, so I really recommend you to do that.  In my online finishing school, I teach women about styling themselves and that's a really good base to start off Because truly in the end of the day, we actually have to learn how to properly style ourselves. Now during the sale, I think it's so important to not go crazy when it comes to what to buy. I will actually give you an exception on that one because I really think that during the sale, when people ask me, okay, but what should I purchase? Well, like I said, you purchase what you need.  That is the most important. What you need, not something that you maybe will wear one day, not something that you imagine you will be wearing somewhere. No, I'm talking about things that you actually need, that fits your lifestyle, fits your needs, fits you as a person and of course, fits your colors. Definitely stick to safe colors, unless you kind of doing some experimental purchasing, but I will talk about that in a second. Safe colors and those that suits you and safe colors of those that are classic. We don't want to go all in and purchasing neon stuff now because neon for instance, is a color that is just a trend, so that's not a longterm investment. During the sale, I would also really focus on buying preferably  from more expensive stores rather than going through the kind of $10 rack at H&M. Why? Well, first of all, you're not really going to elevate your appearance with some left over $10 reduced clothes at H&M or Forever 21. You will not look more like a lady. You will probably look like a girl wearing polyester type of thing. You should really actually focus on purchasing less during the sale, but really focused on strategic shopping. Strategic shopping is actually not really that difficult. What you do is that, like I said, you figure out what is it exactly that you need, what are the wow items that you need? You may also do a little bit of research online and kind of see what other people are wearing. If there was something that you really liked on somebody, let's say you saw an Instagram picture of this beautiful girl wearing something and you thought to yourself, Oh my gosh,  I would love to look like that. Then you have to ask yourself,  will that fit me? Will that suit me? Will that compliment my look and is that my style and does it fit my lifestyle? If you tick yes on all those questions, then you can go ahead and just bring that picture with you whenever you go shopping and hunting during the sale season, and you just simply look for it. So that's kind of the basics.  When it comes to strategic shopping, you also make sure to, well, okay, it depends what type of shopping we're going to do. Are we going to do online shopping or are we going to do offline shopping? Online shopping is actually quite easy because with online shopping, you can really prepare yourself and you can research like there's no tomorrow and actually ended up making the best bargains as a result. How we do it is that before the sales starts, we create loads of wishlist inside each and every store's account. For instance, at the Outnet or Saks or Barneys or whatever you shop online. So we create our accounts and we simply start looking at a shopping list because now we have defined what is it that we need and want and so on. Then we go and simply just look for those items online. We will find them before the sale starts,  they won't be reduced, but we put them in our wishlist. So as soon as the shop announces their sale day, we go straights to our wishlist and we start checking what has been reduced and what's not. Those items that are reduced, we simply try and purchase them pretty much as soon as possible because things do finish quite fast. So if you see something, you grab it. You can do a little gamble and see if they maybe reduce it a little bit more. I personally do not really advice too much risk taking during the sale because truly, the best sizes and the  best items, they always finish fast. So make sure when you see it, you take it.  If you're doing offline shopping, then I really want you to be even more strategic there because offline shopping is actually a pain. I don't like offline shopping as much as I used to. Now, I'm all about online. And what I personally used to do, especially if I knew that, okay, let me put up my sleeves, I'm going into the battlefield, I want to get home with the best bargains, I want to look expensive on a budget. Now is my time to do so. So basically, you would definitely start off your shopping round by going early in the morning, like when the shop opens, basically.  You make sure you go yourself, because I still don't understand  people who like to shop with other people. It is such a pain as well. It is frustrating and you have to wait for the people and you can't just roam around and do your own thing. You end up being more productive if you shop alone. So for that reason, I really advise you not to bring anybody and do not care about people's opinions. Because anyway, most people are always going to say that you look good at whatever you buy. So go by yourself and make also sure to be dressed strategically. Depending on where in the world you are, they will of course be different seasons.  If you are in the summer season, then I would simply wear something like a skirt and the ballerina shoes because those two are so easy to take on and off. But of course, if you are part of the Northern countries like I am, then at the moment there's, going to be a lot of jackets and boots and things involved. So I would again suggest to wear something that is just easy to take off and on. Do not wear boots that you have to untie. Do not wear things that are going to make you really hot whenever you go into stores and don't have too many layers. Just have something very simple and very easy to kind of zip off and on. If you are going to be buying luxury goods, then make also sure that you have befriended your SAs, sales assistants beforehand so that you can actually get the best scoop of their sale. Because most luxury brands do also have some form of sale and you don't want to miss out on that. Maybe your first design a purchase can be from the sale and actually I would definitely encourage that. But if we go back to the online, actually, it's such a great thing that today we can even purchase designer handbags on a discount online. So make sure do not miss out on those opportunities. And again, winter sale is one of the best times of the year to make yourself look expensive for the rest of the year on the budget. I have loads of other fashion tips that I won't be sharing with you in this video that I actually instead share on my free cheat sheet that you can get at www.ClassicCheatsheet.com It's also the topic of How To Look Expensive, so make sure you don't miss that freebie. Another very common thing that happens during sale time is that we oftentimes encounter a wow garment that is not in our size and we are doomed. And we look and look and look and no, nobody can find it in our size and why does it have to happen type of thing? It happens to all of us all the time, it feels like. But the beauty is that if it's a little bit bigger, then you can actually buy it anyway and just take it to a tailor. I really do recommend that. I really advise it because I oftentimes speak about tailoring anyway. It's really good to get your clothes tailored  and if you find something that you just love and adore and will wear so much, then get it. Even if it's one or two sizes too big and then just get it tailored afterwards, it is worth it. I actually did that with a coat that I have. It was two sizes too big. I took it to a tailor, got it fitted perfectly, and also even change the shape a little bit from the original shape. And today, it's one of my favorite pieces in the wardrobe, so I wear it so much. I really got my return on investment. You know what I've noticed that is also another common phenomenon, it's called repeat buy. And repeat buy happens when we like something, we know it works for us and then that's the only things we tend to buy, even though we already have it in our wardrobe and maybe plenty of them. I used to have a terrible case of repeat buys but since I'm wearing much less black these days, I kind of cured myself from this particular repeat buy scenario. I used to be obsessed with buying black kind of skater looking dresses. I don't know how many I had in my wardrobe and they all look the same, but I just couldn't stop buying. So you really have to think about, do I really need this item even though I love it? So you really have to ask yourself when you go and you see something you like, do I already have this or do I really need it? And really ladies, be honest with yourself because if you are repeat buying, then you're just wasting your money. When you could have taken that money and actually invested it in something bigger and something better. It's funny how we oftentimes say to ourselves, Oh no, I cannot purchase that one very expensive item that actually will truly elevate our look to the really next level. Instead, we go and waste our money on so many smaller items that does not make sense or does not really end up expanding our options in our wardrobe. Instead, we just wasted a lot of money and we just have yet another item in the wardrobe that most likely we're not going to wear.  Remember I told you, there is actually one exception to what you need to buy and I said you shouldn't be buying crazy colors or crazy this or crazy that. Go for simple, solid, safe choices during the sale because it's so easy to buy things that you are not going to wear. However, there is an exception ladies and the exception is that it's always good to have some percentage in a wardrobe that is just for experimental purposes, in order not to end up looking the same  year after year after year and always stay in the safe zone. Although I must say, there's nothing wrong with doing that. I'm pretty positive towards that attitude. But I think there is a lot of us who like to renew ourselves from time to time and that's kind of where you need your experimental section in your wardrobe. Clothes that might be in a different color but still suitable color for you and that you usually do not wear or maybe fabrics that you usually do not wear, or maybe style that usually not wear. Even makeup perhaps that usually wouldn't be wearing, but you want to experiment and you want to see if maybe you will like it or maybe if it will suit you. So you need to have an experimental kind of zone like that, but I would never advise you to experiment at a full price. I will always tell you going by all those experimental things are during the sale. Now is a time to really see, will I love wearing stripes or  will I just feel fat in them or is green really my color? Maybe I should try different shades of green and just see which one suits me the best. That's the attitude you need to have for your experimental little bracket there in your wardrobe. And truly, now is the time of the year to purchase anything experimental. I just don't want you to spend too much money on the experimental stuff because again, it's just there for an experiment. But what else would I encourage you to buy during the sale? Definitely buy things that you know are classic and timeless. You know, that is my mantra and I'm not going to pretend it's not. During the winter, it's mostly winter items that are being on sale, so it depends also where in the world you are. I definitely think now is a good time to invest in Cashmere, invest in tops and long sleeves, and turtlenecks. If you can try and find beautiful trousers, beautiful boots, jackets, coats, those type of really important basic items, buy them now and again, buy them from high quality stores. Buy less during the season but buy more high quality. Invest, even if you think that yes, but if I buy a jacket now and I'm not going to be wearing it for much longer because spring is kind of next up. Yes, but you need it for the year after and the year after. The purpose is not to buy trends during the sale. The purpose is to buy very classic looking items. Nothing that is overly too crazy that you might get bored of unless that belongs to your experimental bracket. Buy things that you really need and that you know that you will be wearing. Another great tip I got from the stylist that was teaching me during my image consulting course, she said that for sure during the sale, regardless of which sale of the year it is, it's a good time to purchase things like pajamas, underwear and so on. And especially if you want to go a little bit more luxury and you want to for instance, purchase like let's say La Perla. I don't know, would you want to pay $500 for a bra? That's a bit crazy amount of money for a bra. But during the sale, you can definitely get great bargains even from brands like La Perla. So really think about these things, these kind of small luxuries that you might be a little bit too stingy the rest of the year to invest in. Now is a great time to purchase those things. Then I will definitely be stocking up on loads of silk pajamas because that's something I will be wearing all year round, year after year and you can just never have too many pajamas in my opinion. And if I see a few Cashmere socks, I might even get that because that's just something I love lounging about in the house. If you want to have a video where I talk about how to look expensive and elegant at home, let me know, use the comment section below. If there is enough interest, I will make that video. By the way, ladies, one of my first ever videos that I made on this YouTube channel, it's actually quite embarrassing to watch it today. But I want you to watch it though.  It's called How To Look Expensive on Budget, and I really go over so many good basics in that video. So hop up there because I will see you there. And don't forget to be clever during the sale, ladies. 