 Hello my dears! This is Sarah from  sheholdsdearly.com. Today I want   to show you ten ways to use thrifted linens. {Music} So a lot of times we will take our  - I'm calling them thrifted linens,   it also means vintage linens, hand me  downs - any type of fabric that you love,   you don't want to get rid of, it has some  cool details and texture to it. But you   just can't quite figure out what to do with  it, that's what I want to talk about today. So, for instance we had a lot of tablecloths  and cloth napkins from my relatives growing up,   and my mom would just keep them in  drawers in the dining room. And maybe   they would be used once a year, but a lot  of times, they would just never get used.  So here's some creative ways to use fabrics  like that, that maybe have great monograms   or lace edging or something. And starting with number one,   which is actually not a feminine piece of  fabric but this used to be a men's dress   shirt. I have a video on this, but I turned a  men's dress shirt that I got at a garage sale   last summer into this little Bistro apron. And I actually got it in the free box which   is extra fun, and turned it into a little  apron so that's fun if you have sentimental   men's dress shirts for whatever reason  you could do something cute like that. Okay number two has to do with doilies. And  I'm not opposed to doilies, they're not super   popular the way they used just as sort of an  anchoring piece on the table under a vase or   something. But I love them for bunting, you can  fold them in half, you can stitch bias tape on   them and they're cute for parties or little girls'  rooms. I also love them at Christmas because they   look to me like snowflakes. And I actually I  have in my head a blog post I want to do on   a bunch of different ways you can use doilies at  Christmas time to just have that snowflake feel.  But I inherited a rather strange one  from my grandmother, I got this bird;   just weird! I've never seen another one like it  and I didn't know what to do with it and I was   about to just get rid of it and then I had this  "a ha" moment and I thought "I'm gonna put this   on my linen skirt" that I got at Goodwill  and make sort of a knockoff poodle skirt. Okay, number three is crocheted runners. Number  four I'm going to talk about another type of   runner I'll show you, but first of all we're going  to talk about the crocheted runners which I think   are beautiful if you put them on the bottom of  a drape. So these used to be my curtains in my   bedroom and I have a blog post, not a YouTube  video, but a blog post on how I made these.   You can actually do it without sewing. I just  hand stitched these along the bottom of these   curtain panels. You could hot glue them if sewing  was holding you back, and the post is called "No   Sew Lace Curtains." I'll link that for you. Okay, number four, this is another use for   table runners that I love to do. You just  simply cut them in half, fold them over and   stitch them down and make café curtains. So these  are from my kitchen. Great use for table runners! Number five has to do with twin size dust ruffles.  That's usually the size I get. I actually don't   normally see cool larger dust ruffles, so I just  used twin size. There's a lot of ways to use dust   ruffles a which probably means I mistitled this  video. I think there's more like 15 ideas in this   video, but it's okay! So I love dust ruffles for  curtains! I'll cut them in half and I always look   for one, see this one has a really pretty edge.  I think I paid a dollar for this dust ruffle.   And if you find them that have really neat edges  that you like. Okay, so I have cut them right down   the middle and then I'll have drapes that have,  you know, each side has the pretty edge. I've   used them for shower curtains. I really like  them for tablecloths for those 6-foot banquet   tables that you set up for parties and  things, they fit nicely for that. And then,   I did a video a while back on turning a  dust ruffle into a, just kind of a light   linen blanket. Just stitching it on a machine. I  stitched it onto a huge piece of linen and it's   just a beautiful blanket. We especially love it in  the summer, and I drape it over my couch as well. Okay number six, sheets, just regular flat bed  sheets. I always look for these when I'm out   thrifting. They're good and you have to like  the pattern, you have to like the feel of it,   they can't be too ratty, all those things.  But if you can find a good flat bed sheet,   think of it as more than a bed sheet, it's just  a huge piece of fabric! And so a lot of times   I'll buy that and I'll make whatever I want out of  it. So I made a slipcover out of a bed sheet that   I bought. I've made a few slip covers out of bed  sheets. So think of them as fabric, and of course   the possibilities are endless at that point. Number seven is something I did a while back   with a lace tablecloth and I don't have with  me because it was a gift to my nieces so they   have it. But I took a lace tablecloth and built  just a simple simple frame with 1" x 2" boards   and made it into a tent. So I will link that  below, it's easy to turn a lace tablecloth into   a super cute tent for little kids. Okay, number eight, handkerchiefs!   Now this might be a little stressful for you,  but I'm not opposed to altering things. It's   kind of my philosophy around here that it's fine  to cut up things, or repaint things, as long as   that antique is becoming something that's loved  again and gets to live on. That's my philosophy.  So I took some of my grandmother's handkerchiefs,  and I made these little driftwood sailboats,   and I'll link the video for this. I use them in my  summer decorating and then this also is going to   be a gift for my Mom. I hope she's not upset  that I cut the handkerchief, but we'll find   out. And this is a piece of driftwood from their  beach house, so I thought it was a cool gift. Number nine is a lace screen and these are cool  for hanging on the wall. I actually made it as   a solution for a problem that we had in our house.  We had a few windows in our house that didn't have   screens and we don't have air conditioning so we  depend on being able to open our windows. So I   got tired of waiting for our screens, real ones,  to get put in our windows and I just took a lace   curtain one day and cut it up. Built this little  frame really quick and stapled it onto the back.   And then pop this in our window. And it's just  so pretty and I don't even care about screens   anymore, I just love these! So that's the fun  solution if you have some lace you want to use up.  All right last but not least number 10.  I have a chair now, caveat, I cheated a   little. I couldn't find the piece I wanted for  the back of this French chair that I redid.   I wanted to find like a embroider tea towel  or something and I couldn't find it so I   went ahead and just took this old French  hemp sheet that I had, and I embroidered   this wreath on here and I wanted it as a  contrasting piece on the back of this chair.   So you could embroider your own piece and use  it when you're doing some upholstery project,   or if you are lucky enough to have a piece that  would work, think about that where you could use   it as a contrasting piece on a piece of furniture. Alright so hopefully you got some fun ideas   there! Thank you so much for  stopping by. If you're new here,   please consider hitting that subscribe button.  I do post regularly and I share my professional   design advice in our vintage home life. All  right take care and I will talk to you soon! {Music} 