 Welcome! I'm disappointed that we were unable to hold this session in person, but I'm grateful for the opportunity to share all the wonderful things that the Wilson College of Textiles has to offer. I'm Heather Lyerly, director of academic services in the Wilson College of Textiles. Our primary responsibilities are advising transfer students, enrollment management, and working with the Office of Undergraduate Admissions to bring amazing students like you to NC State. NC State has the only college of textiles in the United States and is one of the leading textiles colleges in the world. This means that you will work with the best faculty and staff and get an exceptional education through one of our truly unique programs. The Wilson College of Textiles has about 850 undergraduate students. Some of your high schools have had more students than that, but to put it in perspective, NC State has about 24,000 undergraduate students so you can see that we are quite small in comparison. There are definite advantages to being in a small college. You get to know your faculty and staff and our smaller word here class sizes. We provide a lot of resources within the Wilson College to make sure that you are as successful as possible. We'll discuss those as well as high-impact activities in more detail later in the presentation. Wilson College has two undergraduate departments, textile and apparel technology and management, or TATM, and textile engineering chemistry and science, or TECS. TATM houses fashion and textile design and fashion and textile management. TCS oversees polymer and color chemistry, textile engineering and textile technology. Fashion and textile design is a four-year, studio-based cohort program that combines the aesthetic and technical aspects of apparel and textile design. Both are in foundational design concepts, use cutting edge technology and participate in the emerging designers showcase in spring of senior year. The biggest difference between fashion design and textile design is that textile designers work in 2D. Fabrics for home furnishings and medical settings are typical, and fashion designers work in 3D, taking 2D material and making it into a 3D product. Fashion design students learn skills such as fashion sketching, sewing, computer draping, pattern making. Textile design focuses on the creation of the materials from which products are made. So textile designers work with fabric design and development, coloration and product technologies and translating their creative visions into textile materials. A few courses that students will take are yarn design, CAD, knitting and weaving. There are many unique opportunities available in both concentrations. Kori Hyer, a fashion and textile senior and Centennial Scholar, has been invited to compete as the finalist at the Professional Clothing Industry Association competition in London, England. She is the only finalist from outside of Europe in the competition. Fashion and textile management is a business degree taught in the context of the textile and apparel industry. Both FTM and FTD are bachelor of science degrees which means students must take intro calculus, chemistry and physics courses. This may be intimidating to some, but these courses prepare students for their fiber science, yarn dyeing and finishing courses. The strong foundation in textile material science is one thing that makes our students incredibly competitive for internships and full-time employment. Also, we have a ton of academic resources just as students who need some extra help in these courses. Brand management and marketing provides knowledge and skills relating to marketing strategy, retail planning, consumer behavior, advertising and sourcing. Courses incorporate active learning, teamwork, and application of classroom knowledge to real world industry challenges. Fashion development and product management focuses on technical garment construction and allows students to enhance their creative skills. Courses cover fundamentals of product development for apparel and textiles with a strong emphasis on technology. Students actively work with industry to address timely challenges through product design and development. Germanee Gerald, FTM graduate, founded GG+CO styling firm after a ten year career with Gap. She now styles clients for the Emmys and works with various celebrities in the entertainment and tech industries on the West coast. Polymer and color chemistry is an applied chemistry degree that address the science and technology of polymers and color chemistry. It's more specialized than a general chemistry degree because of the focus on polymers and color. The three concentrations are American Chemical Society certified, medical science and science and operations. American Chemical Society Certified concentration serves the textile polymer and color-based industries by providing high quality chemists prepared to enter any chemistry or related graduate programs with specialized skills. The program is designed to expose students to the technical and scholarly disciplines of polymer chemistry, fiber formation, color physics, dying, finishing, chemical modification of fabrics. Medical sciences concentration is designed for students wishing to help students interested in an applied science degree, with the flexibility to take a variety of biomedical-related courses that will help them succeed in a medical-related career. Students wishing to complete all prerequisites for a successful medical, dental, pharmacy or other school application can do so through this program. Science and operations concentration provides exposure to the technology and chemistry of polymers including polymer synthesis, extrusion and characterization. Students can choose to pursue graduate or go directly into an industry such as textiles, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics or forensics. Julia Koehler, a senior in polymer and color chemistry is a Patagonia Campus Activator and was a materials research and development intern at Patagonia in summer of 2019. During her internship, she researched microfiber shedding and established a baseline test for fleece materials. Prior to her internship with Patagonia, she interned with Freudenberg Performance Materials. The textile engineering program is an interdisciplinary engineering that combines textile science, mechanical, material science and industrial engineering. The three concentrations are chemical processing, information systems and product engineering. Chemical processing concentration is designed to combine both textile and chemical engineering to develop chemical process improvement engineers for industries dealing with fibers and polymers. It's common for students to double major in chemical engineering and textile engineering chemical processing. Information systems provides students with skills and database information systems and is linked with industrial engineering which allows most to minor industrial engineering or double major or minor in computer science. Product engineering is the most popular concentration and focuses on the design of new and innovative products. Students may concentrate on specific areas of interest including biomedical materials, sports textiles and composites. There's an opportunity to earn a double major in biomedical engineering or minor in material science. Adam Barksdale, a 2016 textile engineering alum, works as the new product development engineer at Tempur Sealy International. Prior to his current role, he was an engineer at Nissan Motor Corporation, where he led the design of interior trim parts based on styling specifications and manufacturing requirements. Textile technology is similar to textile engineering with the about 40% overlap in skills and knowledge. The difference is that textile technology is an applied textile science program that uses technical skills to produce the materials. The three concentrations are medical textiles, technical textiles, supply chain operations. There's also an undesignated option that allows you to add a minor without taking additional courses. Medical textiles concentration covers design and methods of production and state of the art textile products and devices used in medical applications such as artificial arteries, prosthetics and cardiac support devices. Supply chain operations focuses on the design, management and coordination of all activities to transfer raw materials into finished textile products. Technical textiles focuses on textile applications and products that serve a specific function without much regard to appearance. Automotive, packaging, transportation, wearable technology are examples of industries where technical textiles are prevalent. Most people do not care what color their airbag, but they certainly want it to work if needed. Jonathan Bethel will graduate in May 2020 and begin working at BAE Systems. In summer 2019, Jonathan interned with Ralph Lauren as a supply chain planning and optimization intern where he tracked and analyzed all purchase orders for multiple special products totaling almost $1.62 million. Senior design is the capstone course for the textile engineering and textile technology degree programs. This course presents student teams with a relevant industrial or research problem that necessitates the need for the teams to leverage prior coursework to create a solution. These open-ended problems defined by sponsors challenge students to think outside of the standard educational classroom learning environment to prepare them for the workplace environment. Students gain experience in defining criteria based on sponsor needs, concept ideation, prototyping and evaluation. Under Armor sponsored a senior design project called Functionalizing Down Fiber. The goal of this project was to create a commercial, performance-driven, non-woven insulation that incorporates down waste, which are short fibers that are left over from the processing of down which typically go into the landfill. The non-woven insulation created will be the internal insulation component of a conventional, quilted puffer jacket. This team performed a manufacturing feasibility study which included determining the best way to control the down in a facility and incorporate it consistently and durably in a non-woven web. The team developed a puffer jacket prototype from a lifestyle perspective that is ideal to have this insulation as a primary component. The team won first place in the senior design day competition and was identified as one of the top two products that Under Armor focused on in the following year. Nike is a good example of a company that hires interns and full-time employees from all of our majors. All of the job titles in this slide are taken from real job descriptions on Nike's website. A few additional examples of our undergraduate students who currently work for Nike are Brook Shuff, a 2012 fashion and textile management graduate who is currently the global senior merchandiser and product line manager for apparel at Nike Swim. William Halligan, a 2013 textile technology graduate, is currently a flyknit engineer. Hannah Joyner, a 2019 textile engineering graduate is a quality engineer. Erin Bendig who is graduating with a degree in polymer and color chemistry in May 2020 was a footwear materials development intern for basketball. So you can see that industry-driven programs make our students incredibly marketable in fashion and textile companies and beyond. Because we want you to be as successful here as you were in high school, we provide an abundance of resources to help you achieve your goals. We offer a developmental advising model which means that one of our advising staff will work with you during your freshman year, will be your T101 Intro to the College of Textiles instructors and will be a resource as you transition from high school to college. In your second year, you'll transition to a faculty adviser to begin building those all-important relationships. They will be able to help you with your academic advising needs and also be a mentor to guide you in your career path. In addition to advising, you will also have access to the Peter R. Lord Tutoring Center. It is located in the Wilson College of Textiles and provides free tutoring in all subjects. Not just textiles classes, but physics, calculus, economics, accounting. Tutors are available on a walk in basis every Monday through Thursday afternoons. We have our own career services office that provides support for students who are preparing for internships and full-time employment opportunities. We have the largest percentage of students on scholarship of any college at NC State which means about 60% of our students receive some type of scholarship during their academic career. We also offer 13 student organizations where students can focus on sustainability, leadership, networking and more. Our student services office also provides diversity and inclusion programming for faculty, staff and students. One example of an event that is on the horizon is a group trip to the movie Just Mercy. Food will be provided and a roundtable discussion will take place afterwards. Jeff Sackaroff, director of career services, assists students with internship and full-time employment preparation and hosts two career fairs each year. Not only does he offer individually career coaching appointments, but he also hosts information sessions, career panels and coffee talks. The career outcomes for our main 2019 graduating class are pretty impressive. Within six months of graduation, 96% of our students were either employed full-time or attending graduate school. So you can see that companies seek out our students, and our faculty do a great job of preparing This is obviously not a comprehensive list of our internship and employment partners, but I wanted to give you a snapshot of companies that hire our students. You can see some are traditional textile companies like Nike, The North Face and Target, but some are completely unrelated like Amazon and the United States Navy. There is data that shows students engaged in activities outside of the classroom are more successful academically. We highly encourage students' engagement in high impact activities in Wilson College. From study abroad in a variety of countries, to research, to service learning, to internships, we offer opportunities in each area to help students broaden their experience and add a different skillset to their repertoire. We hope that you will decide to make NC State your home for the next four years, so if you have not already paid your advanced enrollment deposit, that is your next step. After that, you should begin checking off items on the new student checklist, it's a comprehensive list of everything you need to do before enrolling this fall. Make sure you sign up for new student orientation when registration opens online in April. It's incredibly important for you to complete the placement test, so I encourage you to start on those now. Mark your calendars for the Wilson College new student orientation which is July 23rd and 24th. We highly encourage you to attend our main orientation if possible. We understand that are other things going on during this summer. There are a couple of alternate dates if you are unable to attend in July. Contact the New Student Programs office for assistance. All textiles students need to take the chemistry and math placement tests by May 21, 2020. If you have already earned AP or dual enrollment credit for chemistry 101 and 102, math 131 or 141, you do not need to take the test. If you are planning to take AP tests or are currently dually enrolled in these courses, you still need to take the placement tests. If you do earn credit, it's much easier to drop one of these courses than to add them later. I've included links to AP, IB and dual enrollment credit. AP, IB and transferrable credits can be found on the admissions website. Make sure you send an official high school and college transcripts after all final grades have posted. You will begin registering for courses in early June, so be on the lookout in May for information from your academic adviser about that process. It's important for you to register for classes prior to attending new student orientation to have the best course selection. Make sure you are checking the email address you put on your application. That will be the main form of communication that campus partners will use. If you used your high school address, log in to WolfPaw and change it to a personal one. Once you graduate from high school, that address will no longer be valid. We will send you online tutorials and information on how to enroll in specific courses to enroll in. While you will be able to make adjustments to your schedule through the first week of classes in August, I'd encourage you to finish by June 20th. Another program you may want to consider is the First Year Inquiry in Buenos Aires or Prague. Both allow students to participate in a study abroad experience before they even enroll full time. We've had several Wilson College students participate in Prague in the previous years and have raved about their experience. For your reference, here is the contact information for our academic, career and student services staff. Also, check out our webpage for additional information about our programs and services. Feel free to reach out to one of us if you have additional questions that I did not answer today. I hope to see you this fall! 