 Hi I'm Annie with ByAnnie.com and Patterns by Annie. Let's take a closer look at our pattern Handle It which includes complete step-by-step instructions for handy door hanging organizers in two versions. Version 1 features a swivel hook strap. Version 2 uses chalkboard fabric for the bottom pocket making it a great place for quick reminders. You'll love the checkboxes in the pattern to help you keep track of where you are in the process as well as the handy tags for labeling all your pieces. There are lots of helpful illustrations in the pattern to guide you and we've also filmed an Add-on Video to help you with some of the more unique or challenging aspects of this project. This video series will help you with these areas: choosing and cutting the fabrics, preparing the bottom pocket for both versions, and bringing everything together to assemble the organizer. The clear and complete pattern instructions combined with the Add-on Video make Handle It a pattern that can be accomplished by all levels of makers; from beginners to more advanced sewists. With no quilting, no zippers, and no complicated features, it's a fun and easy project to make and a great project for introducing sewists to ByAnnie's patterns Makers will need skills for careful marking and rotary cutting and for sewing accurate seams. The project is very straightforward and the videos will walk you step-by-step through the more challenging or unique aspects. Let's talk a little bit about the supplies that you will need to make Handle It. The pattern recommends that you use two fabrics for the organizers: A main fabric for the body of the organizer and the pockets, and a coordinating fabric for the bindings, straps, and bottom-pocket lining binding. Feel free to mix and match a variety of fabrics for the pieces if you prefer. Using ByAnnie's Soft and Stable for the organizer gives great body and stability and enables you to use any type of fabric. We especially like to use quilting cottons because of the wide range of colors and designs that are available. You'll also need some fusible interfacing for the pieces and we prefer Shape-Flex 101 for this purpose. Just a few more items are needed to complete the organizer. A half-inch swivel hook if you are making version one or a small piece of chalkboard fabric for version 2. And of course you will need thread to match your fabrics. We prefer using Superior Threads So Fine #50. A fifty-weight polyester thread. It is strong and sturdy yet light enough that it blends in well. I'd recommend choosing colors to match both of your fabrics. Most of the stitching will be done on the coordinating fabric but sometimes it will show on the main fabric too so you will want to match that as well. We have loved making and using these handy door hanging organizers and appreciate their useful simplicity. We know that you'll enjoy having your own Handle It too as well as making them for gifts. Be sure to share pictures of your finished projects with us as we can't wait to see the organizers that you make and how you use them. Find us on Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, and YouTube, by using @PatternsByAnnie And if you liked this video please click on the Like button below to give us some feedback. Remember to hit the subscribe button too so you're sure to know when we post new videos. Thank you so much for watching. Happy stitching! 