 Hello, I'm going to the upholsterer for everyone and so I thought that by the way I can show you what materials to choose for a sofa, corner, chairs. Which will be resistant to a child's dirty nice, wine after a party, sandwich butter, chocolate or cat's hair, or even the cat itself. We will listen to it all from the lips of a professional, young girl upholsterer, who has transformed her passion into a way of life. I'll be there soon. See you soon. Hello, I arrived again, I am already in the beautiful village of Rajcza. I'm visiting today, not with Olga and the cat. I hope that our tester will like him, that Ryszard will help us, because I would really like to show you today which materials are worth choosing, that will not get damaged quickly, that will not get stained at a larger party, or small children with theirs with ubiquitous hands won't do it for me once two. And Olga as a professional, professional upholsterer will help us. Therefore, for now, as usual, a short theory, and then we will go to the tests and try it live, in such normal use as these materials behave. Tell me. What should I pay attention to if I want to upholster myself or buy a new corner, armchair, anything? Yes, what should I pay attention to, if my house is open, I invite you to parties, And these parties never end politely like this. Only, sometimes something is spilled on these fabrics. Sure, in the first place, as you say, it is worth paying attention to whether the fabric is easy to clean. It is primarily at this point that we can be sure that something will flow from this fabric. That it's not like it will be absorbed right away. Of course you should wipe it right away anyway, but you don't need to use any special detergents. These fabrics have special coatings that protect against dirt. At this point, during the tests, we will check it to see if it really is so. So is this water pouring like that? So it's hydrophobic, meaning that it just flows over it. Probably some of you noticed, those who watch more of my episodes, that I used to have a gray corner. Now it's beautiful, blue thanks to Olga. Let me tell you for real, I just took this material - that's I am like that? yes, yes, this is velvet. I have a large dog, I have a medium-sized child that always gets dirty and removes dirt very well. We will also see and check here what it looks like on such a sample. Okay, I'm going to the store or I'm seeing you, and what should I tell you? I want to have it cool, but you will tell me: It will be cool And how can I believe you? that this is cooler than this cool. It is worth paying attention to the parameter card on the fabric sampler. Of course, in the shop you should ask the seller. Au upholsterer should you ask the upholsterer? He should know what he sells, what fabrics he uses, what fabrics are best for a cat or a child. I can show more or less this parameter card at this point. And we'll see more or less what it looks like. So see. Note that (you will see the photos.) We have a grammage, yes, and it is good to have a grammage higher than 300 grams per square meter. Shifts in the seam at this point is a category B, A. Probably the best category. There are categories up to D. Pilling and piling categories A. To. It is quite important, because even if it is abrasion resistant, let's say it is according to the Martindale test, which I will tell you about in a moment. It has quite high parameters, quite high, the number of cycles is, pilling and peeling is also important because when sitting down there is such an unpleasant nap. More than once, a person has something on their pants and it can simply destroy the tactile. Yes exactly. So the best is category A Yes, it is best if, for all parameters, there is category A everywhere. Of course, that would be the best. And when it comes to abrasion resistance, at this point is made so-called test Martindale In short, I can say that this is something on the principle that if you sat any number of thousands of times on the couch, the couch so many times ... Do you hear what Fucha ? How do we check yes? How many times have I sat down? 18,000 and the like, and it's still good. This is also quite important and I think it is the most important parameter, because in this case I can say that this fabric is not good because it only has 18,000 cycles. And the fabrics above. 45,000 cycles are already very good. No 18,000 and 45,000 So to sum it up. I go, I look above all at how many of these cycles he has, i.e. how many times I will sit on this material with my backside and it will not be destroyed. Pilling to make it a Category A best. Yes? Offset in the seam. It is also important because holes suddenly appear in the stitching and so on, so it is also important that there is also category A, although B is also OK. And the grammage would be better than 300 g. Yes, exactly, exactly and what I would like to mention, shortly there is something like Eco tex certificate, there are institutes that test whether the fabric has a chemical content . Whether or not there is too much formaldehyde, or is it a natural material exactly. And if it has this certificate , does it mean that it is closer to nature? Exactly and at this point we care more about the environment. Because those fabrics are better recycled out there and so on. Well, let's face it, but textiles are probably the textile department in general, it is probably the second most polluting (source) So at this point it is worth paying attention to it . But that tell me because yes a woman upholsterer. It's probably unheard of, isn't it? Come on. See, a young girl, and you have to use your strength for this , well, my corner Olga was with me. I was tired of Olga, no. You know, it's already practice. For so many such blocks of flats, somewhere out there, all those staircases are not. But yes, it is very hard work, but I will not say, you have to stretch it, you have to deal with it. Well, making a corner, you know, it's not that it's just standing, and I'm running around it. You just have to lift it, carry it. Roll over, move. So at this point, the work is very hard. Have you been carrying it this way for many years? It's been 5 years that I have been working in this profession. Of course, there are pains, hands, back pains somewhere . Well, unfortunately, it is such an occupational disease. But listen, what beautiful things does he do? For me, you've already done something there, I'll show you links at home, on YouTube, or in the article, go to the blog, or on FB is really worth it. Nice to meet you, thank you very much. Okay, let's go, we'll do a test so that people can see how it actually works in normal use, will it come off under the influence of wine, chocolate or, unfortunately, it will remain a stain, ok? Let's go, I check. Now let's move on to what interests you the most. We will do a test, we will test the materials, how they behave in normal use here, i.e. we will take butter, melted chocolate. We'll check how little children would stain with ubiquitous fingers here . Whether it comes down or not. We will also play more like adults. We're giving away wine wine Olga bought specially for the occasion (not lose, do not lose to) Calmly I'll handle him. When ryszard wants to work with us , he comes after these materials a bit, he will scratch them, and we will see if these materials are resistant to it. But. We also have cat and dog hair, we will put it on and see if they come off the materials nicely. Okay, let's do it. I'll take my little hand here. And we'll play. Here we have butter, this is my material. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the material I have on my corner. We will see how it is, I praised him :) Okay, but let me tell you that you can hardly see it on this material. You can't see but but there aren't any good parameters - we'll see. That's what it's about to check. On eco leather, try me too, it should go down anyway , but there are pros and cons of eco leather. Well, listen to chocolate anyway. What is this material? it is printed fabric. Hmm, delicious chocolate. Come on, pass the wine. Here you go. You know what, I 'll take it like that, after all, he was drinking, because the police will stop Dobra and these 2 materials on my way back . You can see at once that this wine stands on some of the materials. just nothing happens, nothing soaks up. Okay, let's see now. Here I see that the butter soaks into my fabric nicely, but the fact that we get dirty is always what I say so that it's difficult to get dirty Well, it has the right to get dirty The only question is whether it will wash off easily and quickly. The kids won't be careful, yes, but it won't always work out either, so we have to see if we wash it off. Please give me a cloth. First we will see the dry ones, but according to the producers, they always recommend washing with water. Clean water. yes a cloth with water. It is a fabric that does not have an easy-to- clean parameter , but it is very durable. So far everything stays on it like this. we will see my material. I can party the wine Well, let's see, it has gone as far. The chocolate does not smudge. But it's dry. But don't listen, well almost, it almost comes down, it almost comes down. We'll see what kind of skin it is, then we probably know what it will look like. Everything comes out of eco leather. The chocolate was left, but as you know, it's wet with water and it will go off. So what is this material? So is the fabric. Velvet has very good parameters, easy to clean. It goes down, it goes down very well. She even said that even better than her fabrics, what did you recommend to me? Well, it really comes off better. you wanted a grenade you have it. It's okay. This is how I feel that this material, which was just visible, for me at the beginning, and now they are all out. Unfortunately, it is already visible. See it now. Yes, it is also quite pretty made of this fabric , but unfortunately it is not suitable for a cat. Here we have this printed fabric. Nice stuff coming down. with a clean cloth and comes down Yes, yes. And jacquard. these are stylish fabrics, but we'll see what that will be with it. Let me tell you this - chocolate, but everything is visible - butter is. Well, we'll try the water, we'll see. Okay, let's see what's in yours because I'm curious. What's not coming off? Oh no, let me tell you this, the chocolate is almost gone, but it will come off. This is how the chocolate will come off. Greasy spots ... The wine is not visible at all. See? There is still chocolate left, too, but you can see that if I cleaned it up a little more, these plans would be gone. But the grease stains remained. It is? Velvet. Velvet thoroughly, easy to clean. And you know what, we'll check it with a pen. A marker maybe? May be ok. Marker well, it will be quite interesting, right? Sure, children write after everything, yes. I saw it. I said that. It's easy cleaning too, we'll see. Wait, I'll get my cloth wet and she goes down. see if it can be cleaned. You see it, we also wrote this velvet with a marker, even though there are greasy spots left, I suspect that if we actually washed it as it should be. But I do listen to it now. It's wet again. Really? It is very nice - it went down. Just once I had such a situation and probably even with my cornea, only the first one, that I had already finished it and was just walking with a marker pen and I ran over a piece of the cornea and that was probably the fabric and it came off the piss. It also came off like that, saved then the situation. We have material that you can not see for now. Everything. We get chocolate down here. What is the material? That is, this fabric is not easy to clean. Come on, don't listen. No, you can see everything. Okay. Despite the good parameters, it is not easy to remove. Here we have another velvet - yes. Oh, what doesn't it come down here? Comes down. It goes down, but you can see that you will have to work on it a bit. The chocolate is coming off too, there are greasy stains for now, but not as much as a moment ago. No greasy stains remain. The wine will tell you. We can party as much as we want, if something happens ... But here you can see the chocolate and the greasy stains on this material . Here we have this printed fabric. The only downside is this, look at you rubbing this pattern right now, here you see what is happening to it and it will stay at this point . Unfortunately, in the topic you will see these traces of this cleaning, the pen has gone, but unfortunately the fabric at this point is breaking these fibers somewhere and. I washed the pen, it was still visible in some places , but it came off very well. I'm not talking about wine there anymore, because it really came down very easily. Some of the chocolate is left, but the pattern seems washed out too, you could say. Already Ok, it's not washed out, but it's already shaken. It's not perfect as it was. Exactly. Now let's try what we have here is a fabric-like fabric and that's so much fun. That there is a dark color, but this dirt remains, and if Ryszard allows us 100% and scratches it, it is unfortunately pulling these fibers out. Now we have a braided line, nicely written here by Olga with a marker pen. And with this braid, I'll even tell you it comes down. I was afraid it was going to be much worse. I was afraid it would be worse, but it goes away, but, A stain remains , as if the marker was a bit smeared. This chocolate, despite everything, does not want to go somewhere , but there is no tragedy. Well, maybe somewhere in a bigger fight, I think it will come down. Yes , you should definitely be careful with detergents, yes, because, unfortunately, the producers - they are not able to advertise something if there were detergents. If you clean it this way, with some liquid that may damage the fabric. Fine, but professionals who come and clean such fabrics. No, they have fabric cleaning agents for that , so it's a bit different here. so not Ludwik? No, not Ludwik, it's a pity not? Hear from eco leather so on average I will tell you that it is worse than this velvet. But it will come down because it does come down, so there is no tragedy. Everything will be summed up in a moment and we have jacquard. We'll see what comes of it. on this jacquard you can hardly see. There are greasy stains, there is wine, of course there is chocolate. And a stain will remain here. Well, it's not an easy-to-clean fabric, but. It smears and I can see it quite clearly, and after the wine and butter, everything was ok. Ok. See, it is not so good with all the materials, not with all of them. But with some velvet we can say anything. Surprisingly, it hasn't completely washed off the eco leather at the moment , but I believe that if I had worked on it here, it would have been a bit longer. It wasn't a problem anymore, but well it's for someone who party a lot or have little kids, it's interesting. Can it be washed off, cleaned? Which material is the best, and if someone does not have children but has animals? We are prepared for anything. I have a dog, so we have his hair. here Rysiek left us his hair. So take it easy and see if anything happened to it. Rub in a little. Of course come on, come on, come on, hop on. Come on, work with us, come on. Cake, is that what you want? Did you want a cake? Please, please, please scratch that best. This is my fabric, we'll see. I will try to wipe it, so that it is not like we just put it down, I will try to wipe it off, but I can already see which one. Your fabric is unlikely to pass this test with this. Unfortunately. O lay down. You would come from. Well. Look, we got the tester coming to check if this material is scratching here. We provoke, you see. This is. Durable, the material is durable. Such a little short test. Ok, I have a hair and a cat and a dog on every material . Ryszard cooperated nicely, listen. Now he is getting to the butter. We will see the first material, what it looks like with hair here, it is a combination of cotton and linen and I will tell you honestly, it wo n't be easy. First of all, we have almost every hair left on this braid. The fabric is dirty and the fur would have to be picked up. this fabric has no parameters which made cleaning easier, yes. There aren't any coatings that made the fabric just come off straight, so there's a plus that she just has colors like that, not any other, so maybe it doesn't show very well. Yes, all these hairs, but the downside at this point is that it's hard to clean because it's not slippery, so nothing will come off it. here we have a braid, a little bit left. Because here it was nasty in terms of cleaning, but fine hair. Okay, let's see it. Velvet, let's see mine. Ryszard after my material now? Comes down, you can see it at hand. This one has it, this one is intended and friendly for animals. Cool thanks. Another velvet, this printed, a bit not, listen, I took it with my finger and it's very nice. With eco leather, we have nothing to think about at all. And we will see, from jacquard it is still interesting. It went pretty well. But you can see small, fine hairs, it would have to be cleaned quite hard. Well, it's even falling apart. Summing up. Listen, you want something resistant to staining. It's definitely worth choosing a velvet, it is specially protected so that it cleans well, so that it does not get dirty so that it does not catch this dirt. If you want something decorative, yeah, nice jacquard, but remember that it's not going to be such a nice maintenance, right? Yes? Of course. Unfortunately, there is a problem with that. But let's face it, we don't give such material to the kitchen, so it usually stands somewhere. A nice armchair, standing somewhere in the corner of the room, in the corner of the living room, where it can simply please the eye. All in all, eco-leather is very good when it comes to cleansing . Truth? Yes, she passes all the cleanliness tests, it is very much used out there in sanitary facilities. Of course, but you have to remember that, unfortunately, it is peeling, so at this point the life of the skin is about 2-3 years. If we use it really every day. We have braids, such as for example here. For me as a layman, there is an advantage that it is a delicate pattern, but unfortunately, keeping it clean will not be the best, the easiest. So you have to think about it. I think that right now, if we don't have children, I don't have cats, this fabric is perfect, it's not expensive. Looks good. Well, it has very good parameters, but it is not easy to clean. And just the important thing, money yes, I understand that this velvet will be the most expensive of all this, or not necessarily? Not necessarily. To be honest. Jacquard, I'm quite expensive, but of course it's a stylish fabric. Manufacturers already know, these velvets are at very good prices also because there is simply quite a fashion for it. Now every manufacturer produces velvet. So the price is lower. Yes. They are a bit more expensive. They are known to be more expensive than this type of fabric , because of course it has great parameters. Well , I think it is affordable for every budget, ok. I hope you will find this test and our conversation useful when choosing a sofa, but listen. Well, we can buy, we can come to you and upholstery, but it will pay off? worth it or not better, because now there are these corners, well, sometimes not expensive. By asking me this question, at this point, I don't want to advertise my services in any way, yes, but I do what I believe. So I can honestly say that it is quite cool to use upholstery services. At this point, you can choose the fabric and what you want. Let's say that this corner of yours, I don't know, is your favorite one, it suits the interior. You don't have to wonder about the size. I was like that :) 2 times, not even. I was making your two corners wrong. At this point, you like this design, the whole form of the corner, so at this point, just choose something. What will be some Colors, fabric suitable for you. For that child or dog and so on. And in the case of fabric and in the case of new corners. Well, the first time to come back to the fact that we pollute the environment in this way, we do not buy new ones, instead of renewing the old ones, but that's a question. A very important point. And the second point is that you are not helping a small entrepreneur, which is like me at the moment, because you can go to a large corporation, where you can actually buy a corner for an upholstery service I do not know , yes, of course, but how long will it last for two years? No? And this old corner, which you are about 10 years old, is enough to replace everything inside the foam. maybe springs, fabrics and you have a new corner. Listen to me, this is what is very important and interesting. By the way, that Olga was making a corner for me, in my opinion, "only" changed the upholstery. In fact, she also repaired what is inside, she added a little sponge, corrected it, she also made the armchair for me. Well, it's just different and somehow now, when I sit down, so it's worth considering, because we really have furniture sometimes, we think we can throw it away, and for the value of a new one, we will fix it in such a way that we will have it for much longer than the market furniture. Hey, I was just about to say goodbye, but I can see there's a famous armchair here too. Tell me, come on, let's get him a little bit okay? He's renovated just like that? Yes Yes. And what were you doing with him here? Actually, let me tell you he was in a tragic condition. He was found in a garbage can. Standard procedure too, of course. Probably many of your viewers know that the best treasures are in the garbage cans. The whole frame has been glued together and varnished again . Sorry, you stained, varnished, but of course, to get to the wood, I had to get rid of all paints, varnishes and so on. There were 3 layers of everything, so there was some renovation of it. And when it comes to the whole interior, well, unfortunately, but I had to get rid of everything to the rack itself . Is there a sponge or springs here? At this point, in the case of such a small seat, all you need is upholstery straps, which make you simply sit on it freely and the entire seat works flexibly , but in the case of larger furniture, just like corners, sofas, or maybe a larger one. just armchairs like you have. The situation is a bit different, because we have different backgrounds. We have a hard base, but if we choose a hard base , i.e. chipboard or plywood, foam here , then this foam will dry out faster because it has no base that works with it, so this at the moment, if we decide on a foam solution, here I would suggest asking the manufacturer if there is a corrugated spring under it? This spring causes the spring to cushion the foam. And she won't sit down so quickly - exactly. When you buy or at the same time when you carry out renovation, it is worth noting that there was both a sponge and foam, and there were springs under it . This is exactly what is quite an important aspect. Or if we can - some furniture also have bonnell springs, so only at this point is it a harder solution for people who prefer hard furniture. And this furniture is rather a bit more expensive. Here the choice is really difficult, because it really all depends on your preferences. Do you prefer to be on something hard? Whether. you'd rather just fall into that couch just to be comfortable. I know that it is also a personal matter. Look, I wanted to ask about the fabric here, but it's great that it turned out and we now know what to pay for. Generally, a consideration when buying or refurbishing a particular piece of furniture. Thank you for today me and Olga hope you enjoyed it. If so, please thumbs up. Press subscribe, and for the moment, thanks see you and bye. Bye for now. 