  So welcome to MIT Innotherm. This is colloquia number 12. I'm Gang Chen, and they will have the rest of organizers here. And then we usually, in the past, hold this colloquia on Wednesday. But this semester, since pretty much every of us have a conflict on Wednesday we changed day onto say Tuesday. So today's actual first day they're using Tuesday for this colloquia series. So today we have really a topic that everybody cares - Personal Thermal Comfort. And then we have a very exciting perspective from three distinguished researchers in this field. I'll leave the introduction to our moderator, Sveta Boriskina. I will introduce Sveta and handover to her. So Sveta is currently a research scientist at MIT. She is the editor of energy in where a mentor optics express, and she served in the past the director of opera society of America and he she was a research associate at Boston University and senior research scientist at kharkiv national university. Her research areas are in photonics plasmonics and management heroes textile engineer chemical and spectroscopy an Ngo working on transport nanoscale transfer heat transfer materials and devices. And then now that in the past semester summer she actually had a course on fashion engineering. So with that I will turn over to Sveta. You can take over. I'll stop sharing and go to background. Thank you very much, Gang. And I will switch to sharing my screen. OK, it's a great pleasure to moderate this panel of very distinguished researchers who work in the field of personal thermal comfort from different aspects for long time. So our first speaker will be Professor Jintu Fan currently from Hong Kong Polytechnic university. So his research spans decades, and he has a lot of expertise in fiber science and apparel engineering. He previously worked at Cornell University and at the Department of fiber science and there he appears he used to be president of the fiber society and fellow of the Royal Society of Arts among other honors and degrees. And his research areas span heat and mass transfer through fibrous materials so regulator in textiles and clothing and both the beauty and fashion aesthetics. Then our next speaker would be professor Yi Cui from Stanford University. So his research is also quite broad and covers battery research and engineering. In addition to thermal management in textiles and fabrics and as a materials. So he holds a lot of awards in the field, including if he has battery technology war he is a fellow of multiple international scientific societies and he was named him on top 100 young investigator awards recipients. So his research areas against pine batteries solar cells electric palaces wearables and environmental technology and our short panelists today will be Professor Renkun Chen from UC San Diego, from the Department of mechanical and aerospace engineering there at material science and engineering program. So he brings expertise also in micro and nanoscale heat transfer, system ferroelectric materials and devices and solar sawmill energy conversion. So among these three panelists we will cover a lot of topics, which are very important for personal thermal management in textile. So just to remind everybody, and for those of you who joined for the first time, the general format of this event is we will have presentations for about 40, 45 minutes. Then we will have a joint discussion for about 30 minutes. So you are encouraged to ask questions as the panelists speak, through the Q&A bottom in Zoom. And we will be taking questions from that stream and asking them aloud. These questions will not be visible to other attendees. So if you would like to stay anonymous, you can stay anonymous. And please also help us to plan future sessions by submitting any suggestions that you might have for future topics or speakers you would like to see on this panel. Just to remind you that this colloquium room is being recorded, and it will be later posted on YouTube so you can watch it. And this might include questions that we will not get time to answer today, if that happens. And again if you'd like to stay anonymous you have a right to do so. And so before I pass it over to our panelists, I just would like to remind everybody that this is again, yeah, this is a topic very important. We all need clothes, and in many cases, people don't think about clothes design or textile engineering as something very novel because they've been around with us for millennia. But people keep thinking of new designs and new opportunities to cool or heat by using clothes that we have to wear anyway. And they just want to show with you on this show with you on the screen a couple of designs for the passions of the future that were presented in 1939 by the Vogue magazine. And two of the designs had to do with thermal regulation. One on the left provided an idea for passive regulation, and the one on the right, an idea for active thermal regulation. And guess what we're in the future now. So what was the future in 1939, we're here. And we do have actual working designs that provide both passive and active cooling and heating. And this is something that our panelists are going to talk about today. So I will stop sharing and I will pass it over to our first speaker, Jintu Fang. OK, let me share my screen. Sorry, let me go from the beginning. OK why Excuse me. OK. So good morning and good afternoon or good evening depending where you are. I feel honored to be invited by Professor Chen Gang to share our work, and also have this opportunity to discuss with the professors from MIT, Stanford and UC San Diego. And many of the researchers online about their personal small comfort and the challenges we have in the textile clothing and to meet this expectation that also affects every one of us. Now because we are now tonight for me it's night from Hong Kong, because today we are with perhaps the best brain of this planet professors and researchers from MIT, Stanford and so on. So to start with my presentation I want to make a big claim and just to steer some discussion. So what I want to claim is clothing is actually the first invention of mankind. This is according to the Bible. Because as soon as a human is eye open and Adam and Eve I was open after eating the fruits of the knowledge and then realized they are naked and they actually take off the fig leaves sew them together to cover themselves. And this is perhaps the first piece of clothing mankind made. But interestingly, at least according to the Bible, that first piece of clothing was not made for thermal reasons, but rather it was made for psychological reasons because they feel ashamed of their body, seeing them naked. So one possibility is perhaps when god made the thermal environment in the garden of Eden they thermal environment was perfect we don't really need clothing to wear at that time. So what kind of environment that would be? Now, a person standing with a light activity he generates about 70 watts per square meter metabolic heat. For average person the surface area of the body is about 1.6 square meter. So we talk about 110 watts of metabolic heat a person can generate when he is standing. And about 10 watts, perhaps, is dissipated through insensible perspiration or [INAUDIBLE] ratio. So we talk about 100 watts need to be dissipated by conduction, convection and radiation. We call it dry heat loss. And if it's on the no wind condition, to keep our body temperature comfortable the environment temperature would be about 29 degrees Celsius if it's without wearing anything. Now, human when is exposed to hot or cold condition human has some ability to regulate its temperature by because human body's thermal regulation. Initially perhaps through the vasodilation if very hot. So basically it is pumping more blood to the skin surface, increasing skin temperature, increase the heat dissipation. Now, if the temperature getting higher our metabolic rate get even higher cannot sufficient dissipate the heat, then we as a human will sweat. And sweat will generate evaporative cooling. In a good condition to reduce the heat loss, one would have vasoconstruction, constriction, which means to reduce the blood flow to the skin and reduce the skin temperature and therefore reduce the heat loss. But in extremely cold condition then a person may be shifted. OK So without clothing we can only live in a very, very limited environment. Now, not only I think we need clothing for survival, but in terms of our human performance we want our human body to stay in thermal comfortable condition. What is thermal comfort? According to ASHRAE's definition, this is the condition of mind expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment. So it's basically a psychological expression. Comfort is a psychological expression, but it is directly linked to the physiological condition. The physiological condition can be quantified like in terms of the core temperature, which should be between 36.6 to 37.1. Now you can see for a male person the skin temperature it should be between a 33 to 34.5. I mean, in terms of mean skin temperature, and locally our temperature could be lower or higher. But for females that range can be a little bit bigger from 32.5 to 35 degrees Celsius. Now, to stay comfortable there's another requirement. That is no sweating and no shivering, and skin must be dry, with insensible perspiration about 15 to 22 gram per hour. And to keep comfortable actually it's a question of heat balance. That means the metabolic heat generated needs to be dissipated by conduction, radiation, evaporative heat loss, or And in this equation the S represents the heat storage. So in the thermal comfort state S should be zero. But the metabolic rate actually changes very widely. When we are sleeping it's about 30 watts per square meter, which is about 45 to 50 watts Now when we are resting, in a sitting condition, It's about 50 watts per square meter. But when active sports it can increase to 600 watts per square meter. So this is about 1000 watts basically. To keep warm in a cold condition is relatively easy. You can just wear more clothing. But the challenge is to have a lightweight clothing, while still keeping our body warm. And also breathable. Because if you wear too much clothing will be heavy, bulky and blocking our perspiration get dissipated, which will create a wet skin; extremely uncomfortable. Now, for cooling in the summer or when a person is in active sports, this is actually much more challenging because you can wear less, OK, but you have to wear minimum. You might still not be able to dissipate the sufficient heat so the only way is to have the perspiration and evaporative cooling. So if we look at the various kind of clothing for thermal regulation. I would classify it into two groups. One is passive thermal regulated clothing, another is active thermoregulated clothing. By passive means it assists humans thermal regulation through the properties of the clothing materials or responsiveness of the materials. By active means there is an external active control in either changing the property of the clothing, or assisting the heat dissipation or providing heat to the clothing system. So I would like to firstly share some of the basic properties of common fibers like cotton and polyester we all have experience like wool. One thing perhaps people tend to ignore or neglect is that actually many of the common fibers that we are so familiar with they are actually thermal regulatory and responsive or we call the smart fibers. Like wool fiber is actually very smart fiber because as the fiber absorbs moisture, which could be from a human body or could be while we walk from relatively dry condition to humid condition, it absorbs moisture it will release a lot of heat. But this is a transient in the short period of time. Like in this graph shows perhaps that we see like five minutes the effective insulation can increase because the wool release the heat. But like polyester, that nylon only are fiber they do not have this kind of property. Now in terms of fibers now their thermal conductivity there could be a range from like 0.1 up to like 0.3 flux, little bit cooler. But to us this is not significant at all because a piece of fabric we wear typically 80% is the pore is 80% polar pores inside. Only 20% are fibers. Now when we talk about insulating material like down or like thinsulate, the porosity could be 99% and only 1% are fiber. So whatever fiber you have in terms of this kind of coat or protective garments that really doesn't count much. OK? Now those are the natural fiber materials or conventional fiber materials. Another very common thermal regulated material for clothing is we call them phase changing materials. Phase changing material could be containing basically water, ice, or paraffins, or fatty acids. Right? It was originally invented by NASA to use clothing. But generally to have a relatively long term effect it has to be very heavy. Like this jacket it's very bulky and heavy it probably can only work for half an hour in terms of its effect. Another class of passive thermoregulated clothing we call the moisture management fabric. So the moisture management fabrics can be achieved by the fiber level yarn level fabric for leaving. The fiber level the popular very well known fiber is called cool which is achieved by engineering a cross section of the fiber. Making a cross section suck and helps the wicking of the moisture. It could be at the yarn level, or could be the fabric, like this particular fabric we call the branching structure imitating the branching structure of the tree promoter when [INAUDIBLE] liquid transform so that we help the liquid swayed from the skin transmit to the outer surface for evaporative cooling. Sorry. Sorry. OK. Another class of [INAUDIBLE] having the temperature or moisture responsive materials. This could be achieved by changing the structure of the-- like a membrane in response to temperature, or making a pore open or close using the temperature sensitive polymer, like PNIPAM, this polymer. Or like recent work by MIT Media Lab. They have a double layer fabric, which different kind of expansion when immersed in the moisture. So one side expands more, the other side expands less. That makes the fabric bend or the flat bend, making the opening for regulation. We have recently been working on a skin-like directional flow fabric, so a property we want to achieve is like our skin. Our skin is a perfect fabric or clothing material because it allows the sweat come out but prevents the external liquid. So in this demonstration, you see this is a typical cotton fabric after treatment. And so simulating the sweat from the knees that the liquid will go through the material and to the surface and drop. And then if we supply external liquid and this fabric is water repellent. So this is another way of, you can say, moisture management. The directional liquid flow is basically achieved by the weightability gradients. In a lot of spots on the fabric we simulate thing like sweating glands. Another way of thermoegulation is by clothing design. One way is trying to have lip structures that lift up the clothing. Because normal clothing the clothing are sitting on the shoulder because of the weight. And in this concept we trying to have a measure of fabrics in the chest that area and have lip structures of lift up their shirts a little bit. And so as the body moves so there will be air movement next to skin, and creates next to skin ventilation or we call a chimney effect. And we can also have a laser cuts in the garment as the body moves the garments open up and closes to increase the ventilation. Later on you will hear in depths talk about the thermoradiative materials, from professor Yi Cui of Stanford University. Now without going into the mechanism actually we try to evaluate the effects. So we actually purchase the membrane the polyethylene nanofibrous membrane, which is infrared transmissive and visit or light , and we made them into the shirts. And we compared with a coating shirt and we tested on the mannequin. And we set the mannequin non-sweating, completely non-sweating, dry mannequin, and we conduct the experiment at 26 degree Celsius and 50% relative humidity and we set main skin temperature of the mannequin at 35 degree. And then you can see, indeed these thermoradiative nanoporous PE shirt have about 10 watts more heat loss, OK, compared with the cotton shirt. So it has more cooling effect. Now, we also plot these. The heat increase the heat loss against the ambient temperature. So like when we did the experiment at 26 degree the additional increase the heat loss will be 10 watts. But also we plot we call the predict the mean vote. Predictor meaning vote is the measure of thermal comfort. So this value varies from minus 5 to 5, minus 5, which means extremely cold. Five means very hot, OK. So weight zero which means for the average person it's comfortable, thermally comfort. You can see If you're wearing a cotton shirt or these kind of shirts we're testing it is about 27.5 that is zero that the pmv zero, which means that is optimally comfortable. And then when it's really come to 29 degree it's one, which means you'll starting to feel a little bit warm/ Let's say if you looking at 29 29.5 or 29 degrees we'll talk about five to six watts of the increase the cooling. Now, another class I call the active thermoregulating clothing, which means that have external control of the thermoregulative clothing, one possibility is like this one, NuDown, is in market, that by pumping air, so you're changing the thickness of the fabric and clothing. Another way is of course electrical heating. And Doctor Boriskina already mentioned that even in 1939 right people already thought about this idea. And speaking of time, it's 10:36. So I just want to remind you. Sorry, sorry 1936. Yeah, yeah, OK. No, no, no. It's now 10:36. So just keep timing in mind. Oh, sorry. Sorry about that. Yeah, OK. Yeah. So actually, cooling is a much more difficult. So one way is to use a fluid cooling, so liquid cooling. And in the middle, this picture is a porous liquid cooling garment. And on the right, is electrical fan cooling. But with the liquid cooling, normally it needs a big pump, like this. And so basically it's not portable. But the electrical fan cooling, you can see, really change the garment carriers. Now we have been working in this area, mostly in collaboration with the University of Boulder, to have a thermoelectric cooling garment. But we just use the normal thermoelectric device. And we prefer to have that device in the concentrated area for convenience of heat rejection. And the air, which is cooled by thermoelectric channel to the chest and back area, we could achieve about 17 watts of cooling and heating in this system, with a COP of 0.5. I'm talking about completely dry cooling, and there's no sweating condition. In a sweating condition, slightest sweating condition, you can easily go up to like 100 watts and much higher COP. Now in this work, we also better quantify the cooling required and the heating required for expansion of the indoor environment by 4 degrees Fahrenheit, 2.2 degrees Celsius. Which the part of our energy used this to say that if we can have this expansion, we would be able to save about 15% of [INAUDIBLE] energy, which is [INAUDIBLE] saving energy. So I have covered different kinds of ideas we have for thermoregulation using clothing. But each of them actually has advantages and disadvantages, and you have suitable limited application conditions. So really, I'm looking forward to the new ideas from the other two professors, and also from the audience. Thank you. Thank you very much, Jintu, for the great introduction to the field overall. And now we'll switch to the other two scientists of the future, who will speak it in a little bit more detail about passive ways of thermoregulation and then switching gears to active ways of thermoregulation. So Professor Cui is next. You need to unmute. Nice. Hi, well thank you, Svetlana, and also Gang, for the invitation. Jintu just gave you a really nice overview on the thermal issue of textile. Let me concentrate on just one, that's radiation control. This is in collaboration with Shanhui Fan for a number of years now, using radiation on cooling and heating. Well, I think I want to acknowledge, when we started this project, that was about five years ago. And ARPA-E has the delta program started by Ping Liu. Ping is now a professor at UC San Diego with [INAUDIBLE].. It's trying to solve the building energy consumption issue, but change the temperature setpoint in your building. Summertime, you could allow it to go higher. Wintertime, you can allow it to go lower, expanding the temperature zone people can live in. Every one degree Celsius setpoint change, you save about 10% of energy use in air conditioning and building. So 2 degrees Celsius is 20, 30 degrees, roughly 30%. So it's a lot of saving. That was the starting point when we started this project. The question becomes, instead of doing cooling and heating the building, can you cool and heat individuals. Then the thermal loss-- and Jintu just introduced, you know, one person is about a 100 watt light bulb under normal conditions, no exercising condition. And radiate out a heat. All right, so one major mechanism, radiation. This heat loss has radiation, convection, and evaporation. And below 30 degrees Celsius, ambient temperature, radiation can contribute a lot. And once you start to exercise, body temperature consumes more energy, body temperature goes up, evaporation will pick up. And convection is kind of more static right there. This really depends on the local environment, whether you have airflow or not, and what with the porosity of your textile right there. So we focus on radiation. In the indoor environment, that's one of the main heat loss mechanisms. So using that, let's look at the radiation loss. A human body, 37 degrees Celsius temperature. This yellow curve right here is really trying to show you the heat radiation, the wavelength of a human body, set around about 8 to 10 micron, 8 to 11 micron also. From 4 to 20, so this is a mid-infrared wavelength range. Indeed, this is a very challenging range in terms of thinking about cooling. The reason is in this wavelength range, we know the textile materials, you have this chemical bonding, CO bond, OH bonding. And this bonding absorbed in this wavelength range, this is the vibrational frequency of this chemical bonding, these molecules right there. So there's very few materials that could allow human body infrared radiation to directly go out from skin, penetrating, making a textile transparent to this wavelength. Very few materials, except polyethylene polypropylene type of material, very simple bonding, carbon-carbon bond, carbon-hydrogen bond, and it only has very small, I would say, absorption picks right there. So this was my student, Po-Chun Hsu, starting this project, who is now assistant professor at Duke University. And a Po-Chun was looking into this problem. So we were discussing, how do we utilize polyethylene polypropylene for this purpose? So one big problem showing up is this transparent to the visible light. Jintu was telling everybody, the first function of textile, the first invention of human beings, is to cover the body, and visibly cover the body, not infrared, but visibly. How can we make this polyethylene to be opaque to the visible light? So we started to engineer nanopores in there. And a few hundred nanometers scaled to scatter visible wavelength of light, 400 to 700 nanometers. Now you see this white colored polyethylene. This is indeed, for the convenience, this is a battery separator. My lab has been doing battery for 15 years. So the first time we measured this battery separator, we found out it's really, really cool. Allow the infrared transmittance going out, if you put this side by side with-- oh, let's see, that's previous slide. And we have about 90% infrared transmittance we can get to that level. But visibly, this white color is already opaque. We measured the sample, and compared with the bare skin in a fixed ambient temperature with a fixed power mimicking the skin using this hot plate. Well, bare skin without wearing anything is 33.5 degrees Celsius. And nanoPE, 34.3, a little bit higher, but will be a lot better than cotton, about 2.7 degree Celsius cooler than cotton. So we were quite excited about this. It's a very clear cooling effect right there. But again, I think and Jintu's talked into us, showing you already, if your ambient temperature goes up, your radiation-- because environment also radiates towards you-- this delta T between your skin, and then [INAUDIBLE] is not big enough, and then your cooling power is actually reduced. So bear in mind, I mean, it's within a limited range of radiation cooling. It's got to be below 29, 30 degrees Celsius. But with this understanding, the first demonstration in this science paper is not available yet, it is non-woven. So we need to make it available. Yucan was [INAUDIBLE] in the group. Jun Chen was a post-doc. Now Jun just joined the UCLA faculty for about a year now. We need to figure out a way, how do we generate this nanoporous polyethylene in terms of fiber, and then you can weave or knit into a textile. So we developed a process of mixing oil with polyethylene and heating it up, and then extrude that out in a molten state. And after you extrude this out, it cools back down. Polyethylene become solid. And the oil is still maintained as oil and then they extract out the oil. So we made this porous fiber. And the spool of this fiber, and weave into this textile that's about 2 meters long. So we're also excited these have now turned into something we feel like is more close to real, but still not quite there yet. There's a lot of tuning still needed. We need to pay attention to breathability, water leaking, and a comfortness level. All this needs to be taken care of. So this is for the industries to go take care of. But there's one more question we need to pay attention to. This porous textile, the scatter visible light, the white color. We cannot get the whole world to wear white color, all become white. We need to offer different colors. But if you use the dye molecules, dye molecule will absorb mid-IR. Then your infrared transmitters will not be as good. We have to develop our own pigment, inorganic pigment, blend it in, a small amount, into a textile. This pigment, measure the mid-infrared transmittance that graded they don't absorb. For example, Prussian blue, blue color, iron oxide. This gives you a reddish color, silicon, kind of yellowish color. Lili was a post-doc in the lab, joining UIUC's faculty also for about a year, also really developed this color possibility yet still maintaining a cooling performance infrared transmittance. So I won't go into detail with that, so we have done extensive measurement. Then after getting the [INAUDIBLE] this support, we become more and more excited just going beyond indoor cooling. What about outdoor cooling? Outdoor cooling is different in the summertime. You have this sunlight energy so much. It's about 1,000 watt per meter squared, a lot more energy than a human being can emit. I'm talking about human is about orders of magnitude higher than humans, all the radiation energy. And then you check the spectrum of solar, solar likely, nearly all the energy that is below 4 microns. Human body starting to pick up radiation is about 4 microns. So if you could imagine a textile, scatter back all this solar energy, but still allow human body energy to go out. That, well you can do the cooling under the sun. The sky is really cold, so you can still radiate out. So another thing is, how do we design this textile to only scatter visible light and also near infrared? We put into this thing, oxide particles. You pick the right size, about a micron also. You can scatter the visible light, near infrared, but not the mid-infrared. The mid-infrared is still going out. In this design, we did the measurement, careful measurement, of spectrum and also mimicking the human body, using the artificial sun. This is really big compared to under the sun, the delta T, the type of cooling you can have, is gigantic. So this is all good. And also warming will be the opposite. You need to block the infrared going out. You'd want to have low emissivity. And Svetlana has, you show this 1939 and this aluminum foil. Of course, aluminum foil will refract the mid-infrared. However, it's not breathable What's needed is a really breathable and can reject infrared, but make sure it's breathable So we have these nanoporous materials embedded into the textile, and also external surface needs to be low emissivity as well. And Lili demonstrated that we have a really good warming effect. So I won't go into detail on all this data. And it's also possible by mentioning, you could do bi-functional tuning the emissivity outer surface high or low by wearing these textiles inside out, you could have a difference of a wearing experience. If environment temperature changes wearing your clothing inside out, you have a cooling mode and a heating mode showing up. The delta T difference, through simulation, we see can go up to about 9 degrees Celsius difference. And experimentally, we show we can achieve 5 degrees Celsius difference right there. With all this, there's so many ideas going to cooling and heating, you're going to hear from Renkun about active cooling, and also active heating as well, if it's needed. So in this real paper in Joule, we kind of learned from the whole community, adding our own idea. We are writing this comprehensive review of thermal management. And for the text, I encourage you to go read. So let me summarize. So I was showing through radiation control, you can do cooling indoor, cooling outdoor, warming, and bi-functional, having cooling and warming integrated into the same textile. Let me also end my talk by thanking the DoE ARPA-E, the DELTA program to initiate this. I will look forward to the discussion with everybody. One last minute, let me show you the real textile. This is the warming one. It's really thin. We already made it into a product. It's going to be released next month, 1,000 pieces only, for a limited version. And if you order that, you will have a card with my signature thanking you for supporting early stage technology. We also have a cooling one already made right here. The testing, we have 1.8 degree Celsius cooling under the mannequin testing. White color only, not ready to release yet, but by next summer I will release another 1,000 pieces. And please support our early effort. Thank you very much for your attention. I'll stop right here and let the Renkun take over. Thank you very much, Yi. So you see, you can do a lot already without a battery. But you can do so much more if you do have a battery and you can use active mechanisms of cooling and heating. Absolutely. My battery in the lab is already ready, right there. High energy density. Yeah, so Renkun, it's all yours. OK. Can you hear me well? Yeah. Let me try to hide this. OK. Yeah, thanks Yi and Jintu for giving a very nice introduction on textile and radiative cooling, so that will make my job easier. And we do need Yi's high energy density battery to power our device. So I will talk about active cooling and heating using thermoelectrics. I have a term called a rigorous approach in the title. I will explain to you later. But basically, the idea is we use rigid thermoelectric materials but make that into a flexible form, as you can see in this photo. This was made by a fairly large collaborative effort, also supported by the DELTA project at ARPA-E. The students working on this were Sahngki, who is now Illumina at San Diego, and Sunmi Shin, who is now assistant professor at the National University of Singapore, and also my collaborators Sheng, Joe, Shirley, and Ping from UCSD. So I will skip at least a couple introduction slides. But basically, we would like to have personalized thermal envelopes for various reasons, like safety, health, and thermal comfort. And same to Yi said, it's relatively easier to create active heating, for example just by Joule heating, like in this heated jacket, or this CLIMB [INAUDIBLE],, this company. And you probably have seen or actually use this heated electrical blanket. So I grew up in southern China, and at the time, we didn't have AC or centralized heating. In winter, it's actually very cold in the southern part of China in winter. So I was very familiar with this electric blanket. So we already have this kind of personal thermal envelope we have been using. But, as we know, cooling is much more challenging, as Jintu and Yi just mentioned. There were actually quite a few products in the market already. So as you could imagine, you could use water, either force convection or evaporative cooling from water. And you can also use a phase change material, like wax, to achieve active cooling. So this is a water jacket. And they also have a wax-based jacket from a company called Techniche, based in San Diego, a popular line. You can actually buy a prototype from Amazon. We do have one [INAUDIBLE] that. So these jackets are actually very effective for cooling, as if we imagine. But there are a few disadvantages of using water or phase change material based technologies. For one, they are very bulky. And sometimes they could be wet. So that's not very comfortable to use. And since they normally are based on phase change phenomena, like evaporation or solid-liquid phase changing wax, so that temperature and heat loss are no very easy to control. And so what we would like to do is to use solid state active heating or cooling device. So the approach we are using is thermoelectrics. But this approach is not necessarily limited by thermoelectrics. You can use other active cooling technologies, for example electro pairing effect. So the first thing we want to look at, does it make sense, from a thermodynamic point of view, more specifically, if you will achieve a certain amount of cooling, how much power would you need? Because we are talking about portable variable cooling solutions. So we would like to have a small weight for our overall package. We actually need the high energy density battery, for example, from Yi. So we can look at our simple numbers from a thermodynamic point of view. So any active cooling or heating device is a heat pump. So it pumps the heat from the cold side to the hot side. It's like air conditioning. And so we know this coefficient of performance. I think for most people in this audience, it is very familiar, like thermodynamics 101. So the COP is the cooling power you need divided by the power input, electric power input, the work you need to do for this heat pump. And of course, we are all bonded by Carnot's COP. And so if you imagine we want to create 4 degrees Celsius of delta T, meaning we pump the heat from the cold side of 33 degrees Celsius, is roughly the thermal comfortable temperature on skin, as mentioned by Jintu. And also, we want to pump heat to a hot outside environment, like hot air, 37 degrees Celsius. And we have cold side temperature of 33, convert to kelvin, and delta T [INAUDIBLE] kelvin. And our Carnot COP actually is very high. It's about 80, or sometimes it could be approaching 100. Unfortunately, a number of devices will actually work at a Carnot limit, obviously. So if we use thermoelectrics let's simplify equation to look at COP of thermoelectrics. And as a fraction of the Carnot COP, and this ratio is determined by this ZT, which is the figure of merit of thermoelectrics. And most commercially available thermal devices or materials have ZT slightly lower than 1, or close to 1. So if you put in a ZT of 1, you will get this COP only out of 10. So this is more or less an idealized scenario, using ZT of 1 with thermoelectric materials. And so how does it compare to the other active cooling solution we just mentioned, like most commonly with water. We know water has a heat of fusion for melting about 98 watt-hours per kilogram. And for evaporation, it's about 600 watt-hours per kilogram. Now let's say all these devices need to be-- the thermoelectric device, in particular-- need to be powered by batteries. Let's say we use the best lithium ion battery from Yi's group. And I guess this number, hopefully I quote a correct number, is about 200 or 300 watt-hours per kilogram, in terms of the energy density of today's best battery. And so we can see that this number is comparable to the heat evaporation of water. But if you can have a high COP like greater than 1. So for example, if COP is 3, then you actually can get similar overall energy density compared to evaporated heat of water. As we know, water actually is always one of the best and most common heat transfer fluids with a lot of heat transportation. So if you are operating similar to or better than water, you are actually in good shape. And so obviously, we would like to have very high COP greater than 10. This makes it possible using battery powered thermoelectrics. So within, it kind of makes sense. But there are also other challenges, in particular, heat transport and mechanical challenge. So if you want to put a thermoelectric device onto our skin for cooling, if you look at it more carefully, you are actually looking at two big problems. One is this what people have traditionally done in the past. If you have a thermoelectric device, you need to put it on the skin. And it's very bulky. And the main reason why it's very bulky is you actually need an active heat sink, because you need to eventually dissipate heat from a hot side threat environment. But when the environment is very hot, like 37 degrees Celsius, you actually need this hot side to be at a higher temperature than an environmental temperature. For example, 40 or even [INAUDIBLE] degree Celcius. And you also want to dissipate heat from the hot side to the environment. That's why most of the time, you actually need active heat sink, like a fan. And if you don't have a heat sink that we are talking about, natural convection and radiation heat transfer, these are the only two heat transfers for modes from the hot side of a device to the air. And the combined heat transfer coefficient, HTC, of these two modes are at best around 10 or maybe 12, 15 watts per meter squared kelvin for natural convection radiation. So that really makes it really challenging to dissipate the heat without a bulky heat sink to the environment. So that's our goal. We want to make a sort of compact and less bulky thermoelectric device, meaning we want to get rid of this bulky heat sink. And also we want to make the device itself flexible. [INAUDIBLE] solution is actually trying many different approaches, including flexible thermoelectric materials, like using polymers or organic-inorganic hardwares. But it turns out those materials still have relatively low ZT, like less than 0.2 or 0.4. So they are not efficient enough. So what we eventually come up with this use, this, we called a flexible architecture but with rigid materials. So as you can see here, these pillars are n-type and p-type thermoelectric pillars. And they are embedded between two flexible layers, top and bottom layer. In our case, these layers are made of elastomers. And they are flexible and stretchable. And so in this case, even though individual pillars are rigid, they are not flexible, but we can actually bang and somewhat stretch this device as an overall device. And also we want to match the heat transform condition from the hot side, for example on the top here, to the air. So we actually create this device with specific design, thermal resistance between the hot side and cold side. We actually wanted to have a fairly insulating condition between the hot side and cold side. On the other hand, we also want to have heat spreading along a lateral direction within this elastomer, which is essentially a piece of polymer, but we want to increase the heat transport laterally for better heat spreading. So these are design conditions and goals. So this is a 3D schematic of the device we eventually made. And so in this case, we actually use air as a filler, improving both the thermal insulation conditions between the hot side and cold side, as well as the mechanical flexibility. And again, you can see that we have these elastomers at the top and bottom is the two layers to sandwich these n-type, p-type pillars. And also these elastomers have enhanced thermoconductivity by embedding thermally conductive pillars like aluminum nitrite, surrounding particles into this polymer. And again, here shows the regular thermalized pillars. And these are the photos of this design, this design thermoelectrics. And as you can see, they are flexible. I will not show all the details, but basically you can see the geometrical design of this device are very important. So here, we can see this cooling effect. So this temperature goes down. So negative 12 means it's more cooling. As a function of 3, here 3 is this parameter of the spacing between that pillar, like 3 millimeter. And then there's also h, which is the height of this pillar. So for this particular design, we have a height of 5 millimeter and a spacing of 3 millimeter. So we can achieve a cooling effect around 7 degrees Celsius, the maximum cooling, based on our simulation. And the reason is under this condition, we will have the thermal resistance of the device itself, is about 0.03 meters squared kelvin per watt. And that's comparable to the thermal resistance of heat transfer coefficient to the air, which is about 0.1 meters squared kelvin per watt. Heat transfer coefficient of 10 watt per meters squared kelvin. And we can actually show the importance of this design. So for example, if you use commercially available [INAUDIBLE] thermoelectric device, they typically have very high thermal conductance of device itself, because they are designed for cooling high power laser devices, for example. And so this conductance is usually over 1,000 watts per meter squared kelvin. Our design typically has conductance around 30 to 40 watts per meter squared kelvin. And so you can see, with our design you can have much larger temperature job or better cooling, compared to commercial ones. This is all based on simulation. And the materials that we used are just commercially available thermoelectric material with ZT around 0.81. And we can also see this exact same devices are also very good as energy harvesters for power generation from the skin temperature. I will not go into detail, but basically, you can see in terms of the energy that you can have is in terms of power density, [AUDIO OUT] units [INAUDIBLE].. This is much larger than what has been shown before. And the reason it's exactly the same as I mentioned before. You need to have a good thermal design to dissipate the heat from the skin to the environment, even for power generation. And so as you can see here, that's because the Peltier cooling effect and the Seebeck power generation effect obviously are correlated. So obviously you can see that when you put this device where there's no heat input, you can see a larger cooling effect, in this case from 25 to 18 degrees Celsius, about 7 to 80 degree cooling. And we can also put the device on a heater to simulate a heat flux from skin, about 90 watts per meter squared. And the depending on the ratio of electric current you are putting, when you turn on the current, in a few minutes, you can achieve a state boost heating or cooling effect. And what is also important is for both the heating effect, which is shown as a positive temperature change here, and cooling effect is shown as a negative temperature change, you have this COP, so this blue curve are showing the COP of this device for both heating and cooling. The COP could be greater than 3 for heating, and will be greater than 1 for cooling. Under certain conditions of cooling, COP can also be greater than 3. Both heating and cooling as well as COP can be enhanced if you have a very mild, like wind, of force convection condition. Again, this is also because of better heat transfer from the hot side of the device to the air. And we can show that the device actually is flexible. We can bend this for about 1,000 cycles with no mass degradation. And the performance is the same way, either flat or it's curved. We did a small demo by integrating this device into fabric and a [INAUDIBLE] on the arm. This is Sanki, the student's arm. So you can see that we change air temperature from 22 to 36 degrees Celsius. So it's a wide range of air temperature. And we dialed the TC-- so this part shows before the TC is turned on-- the skin temperature also changed, maybe from roughly 28 to 34 degrees Celsius. But of course, when you turn on a TC, you can always achieve a target setpoint. In this case, the setpoint is 32 degrees Celsius. And this infrared image really shows when a device is cooling, the outside temperature, hot side of a device, actually is hot to dissipate a heat ray environment. And the hot side temperature is as high as 42 degrees Celsius. So you can dissipate heat from 42 degrees Celsius of the hot side to 30 to 36 degrees Celsius in the air. So when someone actually wears this device, they will feel cold, but they probably don't want to touch it, because they are actually hot on the surface. And the other point I would like to mention is we show this as, in a concept of thermal camouflage, where you can show the skin is invisible or blank from the environment, in terms of thermal signature. The real idea is we can embed phase change material like wax, these particles into our elasma, to create a heat sink. And the idea is, of course, we know the phase change materials have a fixed melting point. As we mentioned earlier, for phase change material, base active cooling is difficult to control the temperature and heat [INAUDIBLE]. But we can utilize these thermoelectrics to control the temperature and heat blocks, but still use the phase change material as a heat sink. So it can be essentially converted a fixed heat sink into adjustable of a tunable cooling device. So as you can see here, we put this device on the arm, and the ambient temperature could change for a wide range of temperature, from 28 to over 30 degrees Celsius. But the device can actually show the same temperature as the ambient temperature with a phase change material. So that shows the flexibility of by the thermoelectric cooling or heating. So to summarize, within it's possible to use high performance rigid inorganic thermoelectric material to create flexible thermoelectric devices for cooling and heating. And the key is to design [INAUDIBLE].. And [INAUDIBLE] the other aspect that we actually still need to work on to really make this device commercially viable. So from materials and device point of view, it's always good to higher ZT. And we also want to have a better elasma material that is soft and also with high thermal conductivity. And maybe we want to integrate it with textiles, for example, Yi and Jintu's textile for radiative cooling. And there are also possible alternative manufacturing processes that will make this device much thinner and lighter. And we actually have talked to many companies for the past few months. And we got a lot of sometimes surprising questions, like balancing aspect we need to focus on and we are working on is better performance and portability of the device and durability of the device as well as the cost. These Sunday we are still working on. So yeah, that's my introduction for the active cooling. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much, Renkun. And thank you all for great presentations covering all these different aspects of thermal management in textiles and wearables. And I would like to remind the audience that we are taking questions. You can ask any of the panelists, or you can ask the same question to all of the panelists. OK, we seem to have a question for Renkun. How does moisture and sweat affect the thermoelectric performance of your devices? So the question is how the moisture affects the performance? Yeah, that's a very good question, because-- So earlier, the device really utilized the air as a thermal insulating layer. And if you have moisture, you might actually that the thermal insulation properties. And also the moisture itself, if the elasma layers are not permeable to moisture, you will actually block the sweating, and you know, vapor transfer, which is a very important mechanism for skin heat dissipation under a wet moisture condition. So there are ways to make this elasma still porous and vapor permeable. And so as a result, you can actually have a vapor transport and sweating mechanism. But this porous elasma layer needs to be still hydrophobic, so you don't really intrude the thermoelectric materials. So there is something that we can still do to make the device work under wet and moisture condition, but still more work to be done, I would say. Thank you very much. So this was a question from [INAUDIBLE] and actually I was thinking of asking a similar question to all the panelists, because obviously perspiration will affect radiative cooling performance too and other types of heat transfer. So would you like to add something to this discussion? Svetlana, say the question again. How would perspiration, moisture due to sweat, affect radiative cooling performance? --or overall the fabrics that you are developing. Yeah, I think the very minor sweating will not affect that. But then once you get to a lot of sweat and whole clothing is already wet, that's different. I think that it will start to affect radiation cooling, for the obvious reason, water in the mid-IR, this absorbing right there. And the emissivity and this optical property can change. But minor sweat is fine, just not completely wet. Yeah, my understanding would be-- if I'm wrong, please correct me-- is that when you have some sweating, then you have evaporative cooling, so your total heat loss would be much higher. Yeah. [INAUDIBLE] So your percentage of advantage, because of radiative cooling, will be relatively lower. So maybe, as I hear from you, that you still have the same amount of increase that drives heat loss because of the radiative cooling, right? Yeah, I think, Jintu, that's right. I mean, it will be once the sweat is coming, our sweat is going to take over, to dominate the cooling effect quickly, for sure. But the radiation channel by itself, still there. It's a factor, so how much power loss due to that? We'll get a factor a little bit minor sweat, probably will not change that amount of power. However, the dissipating heat, because you generate so much, you already have sweat. That's when sweat will take over. All right. Thank you. We actually have a follow up question from [INAUDIBLE] more like a comment that the sweat could cause short and shorted degradation. In thermoelectric cooling devices and other wearable electronics. And I think this question can be extended overall to washing, too, so any time of interaction with moisture. So maybe Renkun, you can comment on this first. And then if anybody has to add, that would be great. Oh yeah, sure. I think a pool of sweat certainly could potentially short circuit or somewhat degrade electronics. So we have thought about it, and we have done some preliminary demonstrations. So it basically could encapsulate thermal materials as was all these electrodes and other electronic components. So hopefully that will mitigate this issue. And also some of the questions we got from many companies, are like, can we wash these devices? And we actually tested, preliminary tested on these devices, just putting in water. Again, if you do encapsulation well, I think that could be well mitigated. But certainly, there are other aspects, for example, soldering and adhesive between different components on the device that could degrade or even damage it under cycled washing or heating conditions. Yeah, so there are indeed some aspects that we still need to look at it. OK, anybody else care to comment on what washing could potentially degrade in your fabric performance? Well, I think, Svetlana, the washing requirement is always there for-- Oh, absolutely. --all the fabric is indeed not trivial. Even for our cooling or warming textiles-- Or Jintu will tell a lot more, you do a lot of this type of testing, that you need to survive in a number of testing. [INAUDIBLE] to clothing, maybe you would require less, 10, 15 times type of range. But some of them will require a lot more washing. It's not trivial. And for example, our polyethylene, I mean the washing, the machine washing, passing that, and then what's the temperature you can wash? These, we will need to provide guidelines down the road to the customers. And the warm washing, hot washing, will create very different, it could potentially damage your structure right there. And I also see the real clothing testing down the road. All the engineering, all the ideas you do maybe need to modify to sort of late in order to survive in the real environment of either washing-- there's also mechanical bracing as well. Those testing all required are not trivial. I mean I just showed two real textile ideas, and we have to look into so many ASTM standard testing, to pass this one and that one. As academia researchers, we need to be aware of these. Well, I have a fresh idea for [INAUDIBLE].. But the way how people actually do washing, because there's a new advanced materials that are desirable for certain reasons. Maybe we should reconsider how they are treated, because it could be better for the clothes, could be better for people, and for the environment too. Because it's not just that clothes [INAUDIBLE] is that a lot of microplastic is being released during the washing cycle. And that's a concern from the environmental point of view right now. Yes, completely. I think Yi is right because clothing textile material has so much requirement. Washability is one big challenge for electronic textile people talking, so much. So people are trying to integrate electronics into the textile materials for harvesting energy, for active controls, but how are you going to handle the washability? That's a big question. And so sometimes I tend to think maybe the electronics and the textiles should be detachable. So when you want to wash it, you have to take the electronics away. But another issue I think Yi mentioned, also very important, is the breathability. When we talk about heat transfer in textile and fiber material, I find very, very difficult. I was looking for so many [INAUDIBLE]. It was very difficult, more difficult perhaps, I want to say than maybe other engineering fields on heat transfer, because the breathability issue. The moisture transfer always coupled with the dry heat transfer is always there. We actually have a question from the audience that relates to this. I'm not sure to whom it was intended, but all of you could answer. From Suneel Mirra. So the question is, will the fabric be tight on the skin, or loose? So that would also have a big difference if it's breathable or not, depending on what kind of contact it has with the skin. I don't know what fabric the person who asked the question-- I don't know, but you can [INAUDIBLE].. I think it depends on application. Sometimes you want to be very close, tight fit, like bodysuit next to the skin. Then, your question would be still, do you want to have a breathable material, keep the skin dry, then to the sweat coming to the surface to evaporate. Because under whatever circumstances, you want a breathable fabric. People tend to forget that we are sitting here, not doing anything, like we are not sweating. Actually, we do still lose moisture. And if you have a material, which is improbable to moisture, then you will very soon feel wet skin. Extremely uncomfortable. And so when you are trying to wear little bit away from the skin, a little bit loose fitting, then you have the advantage of the air movement, because of microclimate under the clothing there. And actually, the body movement, when you are trying to move and whatever, the microclimate changes. That also creates some kind of thermal regulation. You can let the moisture air coming out, or if you want to trap the air there, you can generate insulation, or help dissipating the heat. I think that depending on what application, where you want to wear it. Yeah, maybe I'll add a little bit for whether it's tightly fit or it's loose is nicer for radiation. For good radiation, [INAUDIBLE] transparent, just radiation mechanism alone, the difference is small. However, Jintu just mentioned this microclimate environment. If you have a little bit of moisture, evaporation, sweat, and things get very compressed, there will be a potential big difference coming out, whether it's tightly fit or it's a little bit loose. And also what's the breathability of your textile? Just imagine, just one scenario, for thinking. When you have sweat coming out, if it's tightly fit, you have the wicking, the sweat can come to the clothing surface and then evaporate, take out the heat. If it's loosely wear, you just evaporate inside first, if you have a good breathability, the vapor will go out. So that the two process is different. The two process is different. It's harder to tell which one will be better. It really depends on your textile. And there are also two industrial tests that cover both of these processes, so there is lots [INAUDIBLE]. I'll give the last question to Renkun, and maybe Jintu, you can add too, because you work on active devices. So how much power is the device going to consume for the duration of 18 hours? Yeah that's a very good question that we could answer all the time. It's very important. So you know overall metabolic heat for our body, as Jintu mentioned, is maybe 88, around 88 watts. But we probably don't need to cool down in higher skin, so we are probably looking at cooling of 20 to 30 watts, with a coefficient of [INAUDIBLE] or 3. So we are looking at a power need of maybe 10 to 30 watts. So that really depends on the energy density of the battery we are counting on Yi to imagine the next greatest battery that will give us. But let's say a 300 Watt-hour or 200 Watt-hour per kilogram. I hope that's the right number. So then we are probably talking about-- if we have 1 kilogram of battery, of course that would be way heavy-- There could be a 400 Watt per kilogram of batteries coming. Yeah, it's already available. That's great, yeah. So it will be lighter and for longer duration. Yeah, so we are counting on you, I think. With Yi's advanced battery, I think the thermoelectric idea is very, very promising. But that the way we work with Professor Gang Chan's student, Long Gui, that thermoelectric system, our COP is lower. We say we only achieve 0m5 by reducing this conventional thermoelectrics. But our ideas to cool the air first, then supply it to the body. And then because of that, you can increase the convective equinox. Also, we want to have the thermoelectrics in one particular place. And we don't want to get away with the heat rejection fan, the heat sink fan, because we wanted to reject the heat out as far as possible. So actually, I have a question to Renkun, because you have a very thin material, flexing material, which is great, very nice to wear to the body. But your heat is on the other side of the thin material, is a very high temperature, you are saying, like 42. That heat can transmit back to the body, right? You are not covering the whole body altogether. Absolutely. [INAUDIBLE] Absolutely. Yeah, so that's exactly why we need to create this design, so the thermal conductance of this entire device is very low. It's only 30 Watt per meter squared kelvin. So it's like the thermal insulation to prevent this cheap leakage from the hot side to the cold side. But what if there is a little wind, and the heat's actually flowing to-- You know, you say one area you have so many electric devices. It goes to nearby, there's no insulation, and then, how about the heat transmit back to the body? And then there will be a problem, yes. You will have local hotspots where you have the thermal device. It's very hot. [INAUDIBLE] Yeah, I just want to be respectful of people's time, because it's 11:31. So I would like to thank all the presenters today. And everybody who would still have questions, please send them to us, and we will answer the questions. This will be posted on YouTube, so you can watch if you missed parts of this. And I would like to announce the speakers for the next webinar. And the topic of that will be on thermal materials for building walls and windows, so going away from the immediate environment to a little bit more remote environment, but still very important. And we'll have Jan Kosny, Elise Strobach, Long Yi, and Leon Glicksman speaking and mediating and the discussion next time. And again, please send us your suggestions for future events. Sign up for the email list so we can keep you updated on what new exciting topics are coming up. And you can always access past events videos and question and answer sessions on the website. And thank you very much again, all the great panelists of today. It was a great discussion. And I hope everybody enjoyed it. Thank you. Thank you so much. 