 Is your home overflowing with shoes? Does finding a matching pair take you far too long? Welcome to Jansenís DIY and this is 33 Awesome and Ingenious Ways to Store Your Shoes. 1. in a Frame and Behind a Curtain If your home has little nooks and crannies that arenít being used, then find a way to turn them into shoe storage. This example includes a wall mounted wire rack that holds around a dozen pairs, as well as a curtain that covers them up. No one will know what you have back there until you reveal your little secret. This keeps your shoes out of sight and uses a part of your home that previously collected dust. 2. The Ever-Awesome Shoe Storage Ottoman A shoe storage ottoman can sit in just about any room of your home. In your living room, it can provide you with a comfortable place to rest your feet while sitting in a chair. No matter what, your shoes will be out of sight until you need them. The best parts of this shoe ottoman are the pockets that line the sides. They keep your pairs together, and leave some space in the center for larger ones! 3. Turn a Wooden Pallet into a Shoe Rack. Wooden pallets are easy to get a hold of. Many businesses tend just to break theirs down and recycle them when they are no longer needed. They might be thrilled to give them away just to get rid of them. With a nice coat of paint or a few layers of wood stain, an old shipping pallet becomes a handy shoe rack. The spaces in between the boards are just the right size to hold around a dozen pairs by the toes. This set up makes them easy to grab when youíre headed out the door. 4. Attach Stretchy Rubber Shoe Holders to Your Walls Now, this is a clever idea! These stretchy rubber shoe holders are an ingenious way to keep your shoes up off of the floor. Each rubberized strand can hold more than one pair of shoes. They also adjust, making it easy to store boots and other types of footwear as well. If you wanted to, you could even put a curtain in front of this shoe wall. Leaving is exposed, however, turns them into shoe art! Itís kind of like modern art, only wearable and functional. 5. A Recessed Wall Panel Can Easily Become Shoe Storage Sometimes you need to hide your shoes away. This is made even easier if your house comes with small recessed panels that provide built-in storage solutions. The shoes are placed into small pockets (which can actually hide any multitude of things) and then, when youíre done choosing a pair, they slide right back into the wall. This type of hidden storage might be a bit tricky to construct, but if you can manage that, itíll be worth it. Your shoes will be out of sight and away from dust and debris. 6. These Clever Shoe Holding Bins Once Held. These are produce bins that have been turned into a useful shoe rack. Something like this can be placed in a mudroom, a living room, or even a walk-in closet if you have one. Heck, you can even put it in your foyer. When the drawers are closed, no one will even know whatís in there. Although it does provide a limited amount of space, depending on your shoe size, of course, it does hold around six or seven pairs. Thatís just enough to minimize the shoe clutter already in your home. 7. The Cardboard Box Turned Shoe-Holder Trick Sometimes all that you need is a cardboard box that once held, well, just about anything. This one looks like it helps bottles of wine or beer. Where the alcohol once stood, shoes now fit. The only issue here is that it holds narrow shoes, like sneakers. If you have bulkier shoes, they may not fit into the available spaces in the box. With that said, a box like this is small enough to fit into any size closet, thus keeping your shoes out of the way. Youíre recycling and storing your shoes! 8. Standing Shoe Rack. This standing shoe rack has been repurposed from a metal rack that once held any number of other things. Most likely garden implements ñ just picture it hanging on a wall. Since itís now lying flat, you can place one shoe over each peg. Your shoes will keep their shape, which is a real problem with some types of shoe storage. As you can see, clever inserts even allow you to keep dainty dress shoes on this rack. It doesnít take up much space and is a great way to keep everything in your sight. 9. Rolling Shoe Bins These rolling bins are usually used to hold things like toys, books, blankets, or any number of other household items. That leaves out the fact that theyíre just the right size for boots and other bulky shoes. The best thing about these bins is that they are easily stashed away, practically out of sight. In this particular example, they fit underneath a built-in bench. No one will realize where your shoes are until they see you reaching for them. Plus, every one of your pairs will be kept together. 10. Repurpose Fabric Pocket Organizers for Shoes These handy shoe bins started out as organizers for jewelry, nail polish, and other small implements. Theyíre cleverly designed to hang over a door. In this case, the doors are of the folding variety. However, theyíll fit over any closet door in your home. Since you can only fit once single shoe per pouch, this method may not hold every pair of them in your home. But it will definitely keep some of them off of the floor and within reach. Your dress shoes will look great while hanging here. 11. An Outdoor Upside down Boot Rack If you have issues with your kids tracking mud into your home, then an outdoor shoe rack like this one is a great solution. This shoe rack is made of wood and is hung right outside your back door, either next to the back deck or just near an entryway. Since the boots are held upside down, you wonít have to worry about them filling with rain or snow in inclement weather. Plus your floors wonít be muddy, as the boots never go inside. 12. Shoe Storage Drawers That Double As a Bench Few things are nicer than shoe storage serving a second purpose. In this example, the shoes are well hidden away ñ in those drawer units at the foot of the bed. Each drawer can hold around a dozen shoes, and they are easily sorted by type. You can have a drawer for sneakers, one for stilettos, another for sandals, and so on. Plus, you can place things on top of the drawer units. They make great benches, pet beds, and, in this case, knickknack holders. They can be designed to match any dÈcor. 13. Turn Wine Crates into Shoe Racks So, youíve ordered several cases of wine that came in a set of nice wooden crates. You also need shoe storage so what should you do? Repurpose those wine racks into shoe holders! These wine racks hold several pairs in each compartment and make it easy to sort your shoes by type or size. They keep your shoes off of the floor, while at the same time, you can organize the pairs together. On top of that, youíre recycling something that would otherwise have wound up in the garbage. 14. Shoe Baskets Provide Visible Storage. Thereís nothing quite like a fancy, lined basket thatís just the right size for several pairs of shoes. If you want to keep your shoes visible in your bedroom and have the kind of dÈcor that looks good with baskets, then this method is for you. These shallow baskets hold a number of flats or dress shoes and keep your pairs together. As long as you donít have cats (who love to sit in boxes and baskets), then consider choosing this type of shoe storage. Your shoes will be easy to find when you need them. 15. Hanging Wall Racks Made of Wood Trim Basic wood trim, the kind that is found around the edges of ceilings, makes a great shoe rack. However, this only really works if you have a lot of pairs of heels. The heels rest on the outer edge of the trim and hang downwards. Youíd have a hard time putting sneakers and flats up there since thereís nothing to ìattachî to the trim. If you paint the trim to match your walls, then no one will quite know why itís there unless your shoes are hanging from it. The trim will blend in nicely. 16. Old School Metal Lockers Repurposed As Shoe Storage If youíre able to get your hands on some old school metal lockers, then you can easily turn them into storage spaces in your home. This type of storage looks great especially in kidís bedroom. You can use shoeboxes, wooden racks, or simply build a custom shoe holder for the lockers. Depending on the size of the shoes, each section will only hold either a single shoe or a pair, but this method will definitely keep them all out of sight. 17. A Floating Shoe Rack in a Corner A small unused corner becomes a shoe rack, thanks to these floating shelves. You can install the shelves yourself, using either scrap wood or tiny pieces from a home improvement store. Paint them with bold color to make the shelves stand out, otherwise, matching them to the walls will work nicely. The best thing about this method is that it makes use of every bit of space you have. 18. Hanging Flip-Flop Holders You probably already know that flip-flops are among the hardest shoes to store. Despite the fact that they are rather flat and can be squeezed into traditional shoe racks, they are not easy to stash away out of sight in a logical manner. Thanks to this hanging shoe holder, your flip-flops will now be kept in great condition. Theyíll no longer be squished, kicked underneath the couch, or so much as forgotten about. In fact, theyíll be right under your nose every time you open the door. 19. A Useful Wooden Shoe Tray If you really are pinched for space and need to make use of every nook and cranny of your home, then donít forget about the room under your bureau. This is a space that is usually used to collect dust bunnies. However, thanks to a slim wooden shoe tray, it has a brand new purpose. This tray is just shallow enough to collect a small pair of shoes that can slide underneath the chest of drawers. These shoes are both out of sight and out of mind. Perfect, isnít it? 20. Useful Stair Step Storage If you have a set of attic or basement steps that arenít used very often, then why not repurpose them? Obviously, you donít want to place shoes on your often used steps, since theyíll become tripping hazards. However, those stairs that arenít used? Go for it. Just be sure to place the shoes on the very side of each step, just in case. You can keep the pairs together, making them easy to grab when you or your kids need them. Another way to use a non-used space. 21. Specialty Stationery Boxes Turned Shoe Storage Experts say that your shoes should be kept in their boxes, and then you can tape pictures to those boxes in order to easily determine which pair is in there. However, these stationary specialty boxes, which are usually used to hold desk items like sticky notes and pens, work even better. These boxes are sturdier and are uniform in design so they will look nice in your closet. Plus, you can even attach pictures or tags to them so that you know what is in each. With these, you could consider ditching those shoe boxes for good. 22. Paint Can Shoe Holders. These holders are made from empty paint cans that have had their labels removed. They are painted a nice uniform silver as well, and then hung on a wall underneath a shelf. Each paint can hold one pair of shoes (possibly two, depending on the size of the shoes) and they look nice in a closet. You can even add more paint cans to the storage system when you need to. Nothing is quite like a storage method that grows with you! 23. A Towel Rack Turned Shoe Holder This method of storage works best for slippers or soft-sided shoes. It would crush anything made of stiff leather. A towel rack (repurposed and hung in the bedroom closet ñ not left in the bathroom) works nicely for shoes. They are easy to hand, as most come with wall mounting kits, and fit into tight spaces. You can even line the bottom wall of your closet with them, and paint them to match your walls, if you want. 24. Shelves Full of Shoe Buckets There really is no shortage of clever ways to store and hide your shoes. The paint make them stand out against the classic blue-green of the shelving unit that theyíre stored on. If you really want to make your shoe storage look nice, then this is the way to do it. You can fit more than one pair of shoes per bucket as well! 25. Shoes on the Ceiling This is what you can do when youíre absolutely pressed for space. For example, people living in a small studio apartment can take advantage of this method. These shoes are mounted on the molding that goes around the top of the walls. As long as you donít worry constantly about them falling onto your head, then this a great way of storing shoes. 26. A Bookcase Full Of Shoes Rather than keep your books in a traditional bookcase, why not place your high heeled shoes there instead? These shoes are arranged in a way that shows them off from every angle, and squished them together in order to fit more per shelf. The heels are so high that you can really only fit one row per shelf, but it looks nice and turns them into a kind of artistic statement. On top of this, these types of bookshelves are available in many different places and at many different price points. 27. Old Piping Turned Into a Shoe Rack. If youíre particular crafty, or at least have a friend who is, then you can turn old piping into a shoe rack. Just clean the pipes well, cut them down to size, and if necessary, paint them to look nice. Screw the pipes together in a way that makes them sturdy. This shoe rack wonít easily flop over, and once the shoe rack is constructed, you can place it in a corner of your bedroom. One pair of shoes will fit per pipe, unless the shoes are nice and thin. 28. Hang Shoes from a Wooden Rack These shoes are both displayed and stored at the same time. Each pair has been strung on a metal loop, which has then been placed on what appears to be a curtain rod. The curtain rod is mounted below a window, belying its original purpose. Thanks to the gold accents and the warm stained wood, this shoe rack becomes the focal point of the room. This is a great way to store your shoes, or even display them for decoration purpose. 29. Tension Rods Turned Into a Shoe Rack This is actually a very clever way to turn the bottom of a small closet into a custom shoe rack. All that you need is a wide variety of white tension rods, the kind used to hang up clothes in a closet. The type of shoes that you have determines the width and overall placement of the tension rods. As you can see from the pictures, you need two level rods for flats and staggered ones for heels. In the end, you have a much customized closet set up and plenty of ways to show off your shoes. 30. Wooden Shoe Shelves in a Corner If nothing else, this article has taught you many ways to use unused corner spaces for shoes. In this particular example, the shoes are arranged on a series of small shelves, placed one on top of the other. These shoe shelves are made of simple pine board and some wooden supports. You can arrange one pair on each shelf, or even stuff two pairs onto one, depending on the size of the shoes and the shelves. Either way, the shoes will be off of the floor and out of sight. 31. The Ladder Shoe Rack. A ladder or piece of trellis can easily become a kind of rustic shoe rack. This ladder example is painted white, making it stand out against the brick wall behind it. The shoes are looped on by their heels, which keep them in place. Although you might only be able to fit on one pair of shoes per rung, the idea here is to create a type of shoe storage that you donít mind showing off. Weíve discussed using shoe storage as art, and this definitely fits those parameters. You can even loop some accessories over the rungs as well. 32. Shoes under the Bench One of the simplest ways to store your shoes is by placing them under a bench. A piece of fabric can then be placed over the bench, thus hiding the shoes. Whenever you want to use those shoes, all you need to do is reach for them and then sit on the bench to put them on. Storing your shoes in this place is easy too ñ just take them off and kick them under. Itís not fancy, and itís quite utilitarian, but it works well, sometimes the simple ways are the best. 33. Bed Skirt Pockets Turned Into Shoe Storage If you have a bed skirt and want it to do double-duty, then consider attaching some shoe pockets to it. Yes, youíll have to be careful, as you might bump into the shoes with your shins, which can hurt quite a bit. Choosing the ones that you want will be easy since all that you need to do is lift up the bed skirt. In fact, if you have a bed centered in the room, then you can arrange shoes on both sides of it. And that's all for now. For more DIY hacks and organizing ideas, stay tune to our channel. Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next videos. 