 Hi, my name is Victor. I'm a game developer and I'm happy to introduce you to Strange Beasts our augmented reality game Strange Beasts is a new game which allows you to create customize, and grow your very own creature It has a very user friendly interface with an infinite choice of customization I find myself continually being asked the question what is the future of home entertainment? well, I personally believe it has to be interactive I mean, I don't want to just be told a story I don't want to be sitting there, looking at a screen I want to be a part of it I want it to feel... "real" and Strange Beasts is all about that, that "real" interaction This is Walter, my virtual pet C'mon Walter, don't be shy! Ey, Walter! What's up buddy? Come here, yeah! You want to play? You can save all your creations in your library open it, change it, save it again as many times as you want All of it is made possible thanks to nano-retina technology What it does is superimpose computer graphics generated imagery over real world objects by projecting a digital light field directly into your eye No, no, no, I insist This is not dangerous for your vision In fact, it's the total opposite Think of it like getting laser eye surgery But rather than getting a better vision you're getting like a "super" vision Well, with Strange Beasts, you have a friend for life, really so it's like having a dog or a cat but without the life expectancy It's been proven that having a pet can help reduce anxiety, in times of stress Walter! What did I say? Not on the sofa! Get down! Down! Oh, that's Anna, by the way my little girl... Her pet's name is "Blooby", she chose it Isn't it cute? and you know what's great? Blooby and Walter can play together Well, they can all play together Ey Anna How about we take Walter and Blooby to the parc Sounds good? *Anna laugh* Anna! can you come back here please? I've made you a pad lunch you're hungry? yeah? it's your favorite! what do you mean "which one"? cheese and ham, obviously! It's nice, right? So, after this I was thinking maybe we check out science museum They've got a great Ice age exhibition I've heard about a massive mammoth skeleton Oh, much bigger than a bear! Yes! C'mon then! I'll show you! C'mon! Ok, well... If you've been a good girl... and you've done all your homework... Yes. Then we can get takeaway How does that sound? 