BUSINESSOverviewMaxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim Integrated” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of customers in diverse geographical locations. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by diverse applications, numerous product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. Our objective is to develop and market both proprietary and industry-standard analog integrated circuits that meet the increasingly stringent quality and performance standards demanded by customers.We are a Delaware corporation originally incorporated in California in 1983. The mailing address for our headquarters is 160 Rio Robles, San Jose, California 95134, and our telephone number is (408) 601-1000. Additional information about us is available on our website at www.maximintegrated.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report.We have a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 were each 52-week fiscal years. Fiscal year 2018 will be a 53-week fiscal year.We make available through our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also use our Investor Relations website at investor.maximintegrated.com as a routine channel for distribution of other important information, such as news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by applicable laws. A copy of this Annual Report is available without charge and can be accessed at our website at investor.maximintegrated.com. The Mixed-Signal Analog Integrated Circuit MarketAll electronic signals generally fall into one of two categories, linear or digital. Linear (or analog) signals represent real world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound or speed, and are continuously variable over a wide range of values. Digital signals represent the “ones” and “zeros” of binary arithmetic and are either on or off.Three general classes of semiconductor products arise from this distinction between linear and digital signals:•digital devices, such as memories and microprocessors that operate primarily in the digital domain; •linear devices, such as amplifiers, references, analog multiplexers and switches that operate primarily in the analog domain; and •mixed-signal devices such as data converter devices that combine linear and digital functions on the same integrated circuit and interface between the analog and digital domains.Our strategy has been to target both the linear and mixed-signal markets, often collectively referred to as the analog market. However, some of our products are exclusively or principally digital. While our focus continues to be on the linear and mixed-signal market, our capabilities in the digital domain enable development of new mixed-signal and other products with highly sophisticated digital characteristics. Our linear and mixed-signal products serve five major end-markets: (i) Automotive, (ii) Communications and Data Center, (iii) Computing, (iv) Consumer and (v) Industrial. These major end-markets and their corresponding market are noted in the table below:4MAJOR END-MARKETMARKET  AUTOMOTIVEInfotainment Powertrain Body Electronics Safety & Security  COMMUNICATIONS & DATA CENTERBasestationsData Center Data Storage Network & Datacom Servers Telecom Other Communications  COMPUTINGDesktop Computers Notebook Computers Peripherals & Other Computer  CONSUMERSmartphones Digital Cameras Handheld Computers Home Entertainment & Appliances Mobility & Fitness Wearables Other Consumer  INDUSTRIALAutomatic Test Equipment Control & Automation Electrical Instrumentation Financial Terminals Medical Military & Aerospace Security Other IndustrialProduct QualityBased on industry standard requirements, we conduct reliability stress testing on the products we manufacture and sell. Through this testing, we can detect and accelerate the presence of defects that may arise over the life of a product. We employ a system addressing quality and reliability of our products from initial design through wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and final shipment. We have received ISO 9001/2, TS 16949 and ISO 14001 certifications for all wafer fabrication, assembly, final test and shipping facilities. ManufacturingWe primarily utilize third party foundries as well as our own wafer fabrication facilities for the production of our wafers. The broad range of products demanded by the analog integrated circuit market requires multiple manufacturing process technologies. As a result, many different process technologies are currently used for wafer fabrication of our products. The majority of processed wafers are also subject to parametric and functional testing at either our facilities or third party vendors.  Historically, our internal wafer production occurred at one of our three owned wafer fabrication facilities at Beaverton, Oregon, San Jose, California and San Antonio, Texas. During fiscal year 2016, we completed the previously announced closure of our San Jose facility and transferred the manufacturing requirements to our other existing manufacturing locations and to our third party service providers. In fiscal year 2016, we also announced and completed the sale of our San Antonio facility to the semiconductor foundry TowerJazz Texas Inc. (“TowerJazz”). We entered into a long-term supply agreement with TowerJazz to supply finished wafers on our existing processes and products. The transfer of these activities from internal wafer production to third party foundries is part of our manufacturing transformation initiative ("manufacturing transformation") to reduce costs and move from a fixed cost to variable cost model, which was first announced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.5In fiscal year 2007, we entered into a supply agreement with Seiko Epson Corporation (“Epson”). In fiscal year 2010, we entered into a supply agreement with Powerchip Technology Corporation (“Powerchip”) to provide 300mm wafer capacity. In fiscal year 2014, we entered into a supply agreement with UMC Corporation (“UMC”). Under these agreements, “partner foundries” (Epson, Powerchip and UMC) have manufactured some of the wafers required for many of our semiconductor products. These products are manufactured under rights and licenses using our proprietary technology at Epson's fabrication facility located in Sakata, Japan and at Powerchip and UMC's fabrication facilities in Taiwan. In fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, wafers manufactured by our partner foundries and merchant foundries (example: Taiwan Semiconductor Company Limited) represented 75%, 57% and 47%, respectively, of our total wafer production. Once wafer manufacturing has been completed, wafers are sorted in order to determine which integrated circuits on each wafer are functional and which are defective. We currently perform the majority of wafer sorting, final testing and shipping activities at two company owned facilities, located in Cavite, the Philippines and Chonburi Province, Thailand, although we also utilize independent subcontractors for some wafer sorting. We process wafers for products that utilize chip scale packaging (“CSP”) also known as wafer level packaging (“WLP”). CSP, or WLP, enables integrated circuits to be attached directly to a printed circuit board without the use of a traditional plastic package. We utilize internal manufacturing resources as well as independent subcontractors to perform WLP manufacturing. In fiscal year 2016, we announced our intent to shut down our WLP manufacturing facility located in Dallas, Texas and completed this shutdown in fiscal year 2017. The manufacturing operations of the Dallas manufacturing facility were transferred to our Beaverton, Oregon factory and assembly subcontractors, which was also a part of our manufacturing transformation. Integrated circuit assembly is performed by foreign assembly subcontractors, located in China, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore and South Korea, where wafers are separated into individual integrated circuits and assembled into a variety of packages.After assembly has been completed, the majority of the assembled product is shipped to our facilities located in Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand, where the packaged integrated circuits undergo final testing and preparation for customer shipment. In addition, we utilize independent subcontractors to perform final testing.The majority of our finished products ship directly from either Cavite, the Philippines or Chonburi Province, Thailand to customers worldwide or to other Company locations for sale to end-customers or distributors.Customers, Sales and Marketing We market our products worldwide through a direct-sales and applications organization and through our own and other unaffiliated distribution channels to a broad range of customers in diverse industries. Our products typically require a sophisticated technical sales and marketing effort. Our sales organization is divided into domestic and international regions. Distributors and direct customers generally buy on an individual purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term agreements.Certain distributors have agreements with us which allow for certain sales price rebates or price adjustments on certain inventory if we change the price of those products. Certain distributor agreements also permit distributors to exchange a portion of certain purchases on a periodic basis. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, our distributors may also market other products that compete with our products.We derived approximately 42% of our fiscal year 2017 revenue from sales made through distributors which includes distribution sales to Samsung and catalog distributors. Our primary distributor is Avnet Electronics ("Avnet") which accounted for 22%, 19% and 19% of our revenues in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Avnet, like our other distributors, is not an end customer, but rather serves as a channel of sale to many end users of our products. Sales to Samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 10%, 14% and 15% of net revenues in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No single customer (other than Avnet and Samsung) nor single product accounted for 10% or more of net revenues in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015. Based on customers’ ship-to locations, international sales accounted for approximately 88%, 89% and 88% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See Note 10: “Segment Information” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report.Seasonality 6Our revenue is generally influenced on a quarterly basis by customer demand patterns and new product introductions. A large number of our products have been incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to seasonality and fluctuations in demand.Foreign Operations We conduct business in numerous countries outside of the United States (“U.S.”). Our international business is subject to numerous risks, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls, import and export controls, and other laws, policies and regulations of foreign governments. Refer to our discussion of risks related to our foreign operations as included in Item 1A, Risk Factors and our discussion of foreign income included in Item 7 under “Results of Operations” included in this Annual Report. Refer to net revenues from unaffiliated customers by geographic region included in Note 10: “Segment Information” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report. BacklogAt June 24, 2017 and June 25, 2016, our current quarter backlog was approximately $389.1 million and $363.4 million, respectively. Our current quarter backlog includes customer request dates to be filled within the next three months. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, these orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to customers. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog is not a reliable measure of future revenues. All backlog numbers have been adjusted for estimated future U.S. distribution ship and debit pricing adjustments. Research and DevelopmentWe believe that research and development is critical to our future success. Objectives for the research and development function include:•new product definition and development of differentiated products; •design of products with performance differentiation that achieve high manufacturing yield and reliability; •development of, and access to, manufacturing processes and advanced packaging; •development of hardware and software to support the acceptance and design-in of our products in the end customer's system; and •development of high-integration products across multiple end markets.Our research and development plans require engineering talent and tools for product definition, electronic design automation (“EDA”), circuit design, process technologies, test development, test technology, packaging development, software development and applications support. Research and development expenses were $454.0 million, $467.2 million and $521.8 million in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See “Research and Development” under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for more information.CompetitionThe mixed-signal analog integrated circuit industry is intensely competitive, and virtually all major semiconductor companies presently compete with, or conceivably could compete with, some portion of our business. We believe the principal elements of competition include:•technical innovation;•service and support;•time to market;•differentiated product performance and features;•quality and reliability;•product pricing and delivery capabilities;•customized design and applications;•business relationship with customers;•experience, skill and productivity of employees and management; and•manufacturing competence and inventory management.7Our principal competitors include, but are not limited to, ams AG, Analog Devices, Inc., Cirrus Logic, Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Monolithic Power Systems, Inc., Semtech Corporation, Silicon Laboratories and Texas Instruments Inc. We expect increased competition in the future from other emerging and established companies as well as through consolidation of our competitors within the semiconductor industry.Patents, Licenses and Other Intellectual Property RightsWe rely upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position.It is our policy to seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant inventions if other protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret, is considered by us to be more advantageous. In addition, we have registered certain of our mask sets under the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984, as amended. We hold a number of patents worldwide with expiration dates ranging from calendar year 2017 to 2035. We have also registered several of our trademarks and copyrights in the United States and other countries.EmployeesAs of June 24, 2017, we employed 7,040 persons.Environmental RegulationsOur compliance with foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted to regulate the environment has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position.Executive OfficersFor information regarding our current executive officers, see Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report.8