BUSINESSOverviewMaxim Integrated Products, Inc. (“Maxim Integrated” or the “Company” and also referred to as “we,” “our” or “us”) designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of linear and mixed-signal integrated circuits, commonly referred to as analog circuits, for a large number of customers in diverse geographical locations. The analog market is fragmented and characterized by many diverse applications, a great number of product variations and, with respect to many circuit types, relatively long product life cycles. We are a global company with a wafer manufacturing facility in the U.S., test facilities in the Philippines and Thailand, and sales and circuit design offices around the world. We also utilize third parties for manufacturing and assembly of our products. The major end-markets in which our products are sold are the Automotive, Communications & Data Center, Consumer, and Industrial markets.We are a Delaware corporation originally incorporated in California in 1983. The mailing address for our headquarters is 160 Rio Robles, San Jose, California 95134, and our telephone number is (408) 601-1000. Additional information about us is available on our website at www.maximintegrated.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report.We have a 52-to-53-week fiscal year that ends on the last Saturday in June. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will be a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal years 2020 and 2019 were 52-week fiscal years. Fiscal year 2018 was a 53-week fiscal year. Fiscal year 2021 will be a 52-week fiscal year.We make available through our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains such reports and statements filed electronically with the SEC by the Company. We also use our Investor Relations website at investor.maximintegrated.com as a routine channel for distribution of other important information, such as news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by applicable laws. A copy of this Annual Report is available without charge and can be accessed at our website at investor.maximintegrated.com.Impact of COVID-19The ongoing novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic and the mitigation efforts by governments to attempt to control its spread are impacting and will likely continue to impact our operations, customers, and suppliers for an indefinite period of time. While we have implemented safeguards and procedures to counter the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic has and will directly or indirectly impact us, including our business, financial condition, and results of operations, will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including the further mitigation efforts taken to contain it or treat its impact and the economic impact on local, regional, national and international markets. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state, local, or foreign authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, suppliers, and stockholders.For additional information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and other associated risks and uncertainties see Part II, 