RISK FACTORSThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business.The sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical.Our products are sold in the following major end-markets: Automotive, Communications and Data Center, Computing, Consumer and Industrial. The demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. We often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. The semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. As a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. Incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations.As is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. Some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. In other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. In addition, backlog includes orders from certain domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. Because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. Furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations.We are dependent on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. We depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our net revenues. Sales to Samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 20% of net revenues in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations.Our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business.The marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. New product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. However, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. The success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service.Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. 9The semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. As a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. The principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers.If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our Company. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. Should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability.We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. Our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. Although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively.We rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. Periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them.  Such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. Other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all.We may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others.In the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. Any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims.10We provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. We cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. To date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future.Our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers.We rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and CSP packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication and sorting and testing services. For example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in San Antonio, Texas to TowerJazz Texas, Inc. (formerly known as TJ Texas, Inc.) ("TowerJazz"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (“Tower”), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with TowerJazz, pursuant to which we will procure from TowerJazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. None of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. Reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. Such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations.Any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships and goodwill with customers. Furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible.Exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes.The nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations, divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. For example, we completed the sale of our Dallas, Texas campus, including our wafer level packaging (“WLP”) manufacturing facility in Dallas, Texas in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016. In connection with this sale agreement, we entered into a lease and facility sharing agreement to lease back portions of the Dallas, Texas campus. We intend to complete the transition of design, administration and manufacturing activities during fiscal year 2017 and close our WLP manufacturing facility in Dallas, Texas by the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. The sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our ability to timely shut down our WLP factory or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we are unable to exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties.Our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems.Given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. Any prolonged inability to utilize one of our or a third party's manufacturing facilities due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. To the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in 11wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately.Our critical information systems are subject to attacks, interruptions and failures.We rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee and other records, and operate other critical functions. We currently have, and are in the process of developing several more, systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, the creation of an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. Despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats (“APT”), catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other unforeseen events. Risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers’ operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. A prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.Shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business.The semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future.We purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. If the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. In addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. We continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. However, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements.Extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations.Supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. Any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. Any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations.We may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements.We enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. The number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. Should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. In addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. Under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. If products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. Such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers.12If we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.We enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and Electronic Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the OEMs and EMS partners' manufacturing location. The inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the OEM or EMS partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. Once the inventory is pulled by the OEM or EMS partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. The specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the OEM or EMS partner. Generally, the arrangements with the OEMs and EMS partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time.We believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. Should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by OEMs or EMS partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. In addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the OEM or EMS partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Should we supply product in excess of the OEM or EMS partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly.Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial resultsOur independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results.A portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their distribution relationship with us. In fiscal 2016, 38% of our revenues were generated from distributors the largest of which was Avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 19% of our revenues. We require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. The letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. Where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. We do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. The inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive and harmful to our current business.We may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new global execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting.We are in the process of implementing in phases a new global execution system (“GES”) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. Any difficulties in the implementation or operation of GES could disrupt our supply chain execution which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers. Such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial reporting.Material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations.Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. The review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value 13including goodwill. A decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. Most of our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.The global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. Accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. This would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.If economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the United States or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price.We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•Fluctuations in demand for our products and services;•Loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier;•Reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue;•The level of price and competition in our product markets;•Our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential;•The impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures;•The overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors;•Below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business;•Announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors;•Our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders;•Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors);•Our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner;•Striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation;•Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and•Our levels of operating expenses.14Our stock price may be volatile.The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control.In addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. If our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. Accordingly,