 We have created history, not just for us, but for the whole world.  Kalam means Pen, kari means work, it's a conjoint word But that does not sum up the definition Because there are only two Kalamkari places in the two states One is in Machilipatnam, and other is in Srikalahasti These two are Kalamkari  Painting on cloth is called Kalamkari The art form has originated from SriKalahasti This art form It has a history of more than 3000 years In our country Ramayana and Mahabharata are the most ancients texts If we look at the age of these texts, It's more than 5000 years In Bharatham, Arjuna and Krishna are main protagonists They have a Chariot On that chariot there's a flag There's hanuman on that flag  If Hanuman is on the flag, how is that flag made? Is the flag made out of wood or mud? It's on a cloth, which means Painting on clothes has existed from the times of mythology A lot of art forms were swept away in the time of british raj Kalamkari was also part of those Then, post independence, to bring back these, Kamaladevi Chatopodyaya took the intiative She was the wife of Harindranth Chatopodyaya And he was the brother of Sarojini Naidu So, Kamaladevi Chatopodyaya took care of it, with the acceptance of Nehru, She brought back all the art forms which were dying and hackneyed She also started All India Handicraft Boards  First, we take the cloth and soak it in water. We use the flower of Karaka and make it fine powder Let's say if we take 2 meters of cloth For that 2 meters cloth, we need at least 1 liter of milk Milk which has more butter content, we wash the cloth in that milk and dry it.   Why do you we dip cloth in milk? Is the cloth thirsty? Or is it hunger? Each and every craft in our country is connected with science, it's not an ordinary thing. If we dip the cloth in milk, the butter content in the milk will spread on cloth ,which makes sketching on cloth easier. For sketching we use Tamarind twigs We burn those twigs and use them like coal. It's easier to find and are available around the place. For outline we use Bamboo stick We sharpen it for drawing on the clothes We tie off a cloth to it That cloth will act like a sponge We dip that bamboo stick in Kasimi, a black liquid prepared Iron Waste, water and Jaggery. Because of that liquid, the color comes out black, it's called Tanning content If you apply the Iron estate on the cloth which chemically react, it will turn black, science is there!     After that, we proceed for coloring  Coloring is also done with Bamboo stick But the base of it is flat   Bangle sellers are we who bear Our shining loads to the temple fair… Who will buy these delicate, bright Rainbow-tinted circles of light? Rainbow tinted circle colors Those 7 colors are on our cloths These seven colors we don't buy them from market We make them from the products available from the nature If you observe colors Which color is Lord Krishna? Black or blue For that we have poems  Color depends on the mood and character in a story or a scene Saathvikan means a guy who is in peace Thamasu means a shade of anger Rajasu means self centered So, we color the cloth depending on the context, not how we like to. A person who learnt the art form firmly can only do it.    After that we take the cloth to the river, to wash in running water. It's pascal law. If we wash the cloth in running water, whatever is extra on the cloth it comes up. So, water is most essential, not just for the art, but for the whole life line.  To get the exact color, we need to boil it.  After we boil, wherever we mixed the color it will all evaporate. There's fermentation involved in this process, which will take up-to 10 to 15 days, for that we need sunlight. Then again, we take the cloth out of the river for sun treatment which may take 3 days. And in the end, after drying, we send it to whomever ordered. In India, every art form depends on nature Kalamkari is completely depended on Nature. That's why if you wear these cloths, it does not effect skin in any way It's a medicated thing. Earlier, we painted Ramayana and Mahabharata scenes, But now nobody is buying them Selling a sari is a bit easier which costs around 2000 rupees. It has a range of 6000 or more than that Market for sari is more than a story telling cloth It's because if you buy a kalamkari cloth, it will last for 50 years without a tear.  Why would they buy again? No, they won't    I received PadmaShree I was awarded Tulasi Sanman All I asked the prime minister is that, sir, you don't have to give us, people will buy our cloths. All we ask is when you give us award, Instead utilize us and our work. Arrange something like that! Why is the art form dying? Because after all the hard work we do, nobody buys them. In these times, we are all forgetting our culture and our art form is also dying. If there's a proper market for a cloth, then we can sell it and earn. If there's no market how will we earn? It's better if we go for labour work which will at least 500 rupees. My daughter paints for the whole month, and she gets only 6000 per month When we do a work, we need a life hood out of it. If we don't have life out of it, the art is vain.  Everyone needs food. People say if we practice a bit hard, there will be success, it's all trash talk, you'll die without food if you keep on practicing.  We are all here without life If you want to learn this art, learn it when you know you can't earn money out of it. In the society if people recognise the art with them like family and get that feeling of we and us, then This art may get it's old glory. Art never lost its value, but there's no encouragement for it.    