 Hi, I’m Aarón Martínez, a Mexican illustrator and designer. I’ve worked for agencies in Mexico and abroad creating videogame characters, magazine covers, publicity campaigns, and websites. I like to take my characters beyond the screen and into the real world through a process that includes the creation of pins, stickers, toys, and even overalls. The aim of my work is to generate simple processes by using simple tools and elements. I also like to experiment with color palettes, no matter how vibrant or contrasting those colors are. The result of my work is a combination of softwares, techniques, and styles that allow for greater options. Music, especially metal, is important in my work because it keeps me awake and creative. I’ve worked for brands like Coca-Cola, Cisco, Autodesk, Enormous Brand, and Nexus. In this Domestika course, you’ll get to see my 3D illustration process from the conceptualization of an idea to the final art. As a final project, we’ll make a 3D illustration that integrates characters, font, and others. We will create a moodboard to define the graphic style and color palette. Then we’ll make a sketch to land the final elements, like the characters and objects we’ll use in our composition. We will divide them into simple, complex, typography, and character. Some will require vectors, and others will be drawn directly in Cinema 4D. After that, we will animate those elements starting with the letters, then some objects, and finally, the characters using modifyers and pose morph. We’ll crate a render scene from scratch using Octane, we will generate materials, and once we have it all ready we’ll make our final composition. Once the animation is finished, we’ll transfer the frames to Photoshop to make a gif. We will also generate a CMYK 90 x 60 print format. We will use all the elements to our advantage creating social media banners. And finally, we will make stickers. You’ll need intermediate level knowledge of Cinema 4D and Illustrator, a computer with Cinema 4D R15 or higher, and a render engine. I will use Octane, Illustrator, and Photoshop. This course is aimed at illustrators, designers, or anyone who wants to learn to illustrate in 3D. Join me in this course to go from sketches to 3D. 3D Illustration with 4D Cinema A course by Aarón Martinez Sign up at Domestika.org Create. Share. Learn. 