BUSINESS Overview  We are a global provider of domain name registry services and Internet security, enabling Internet navigation for many of the world’s most recognized domain names and providing protection for websites and enterprises around the world (“Registry Services”).  Our Registry Services ensure the security, stability and resiliency of key Internet infrastructure and services, including the .com and .net domains, two of the Internet’s root servers, and operation of the root-zone maintainer functions for the core of the Internet’s Domain Name System (“DNS”).  Our product suite also includes Network Intelligence and Availability (“NIA”) Services consisting of Distributed Denial of Service (“DDoS”) Protection Services, Verisign iDefense Security Intelligence Services (“iDefense”) and Managed Domain Name System (“Managed DNS”) Services.  We have one reportable segment, which consists of Registry Services and NIA Services. We have operations inside as well as outside the United States (“U.S.”). For certain additional information about our segment, including a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and Note 9, “Geographic and Customer Information” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.   We were incorporated in Delaware on April 12, 1995.  Our principal executive offices are located at 12061 Bluemont Way, Reston, Virginia 20190. Our telephone number at that address is (703) 948-3200. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol VRSN. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and certain other product or service names are registered or unregistered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other names used in this Form 10-K may be trademarks of their respective owners. Our primary website is VerisignInc.com. The information available on, or accessible through, this website is not incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at sec.gov.Pursuant to our agreements with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (“ICANN”), Verisign makes available on its website at VerisignInc.com/zone files containing all active domain names registered in the .com and .net registries. At the same website address, Verisign makes available a summary of the number of active domain names registered in the .com and .net registries and the number of .com and .net domain names that are registered but are not configured for use. These files and the related summary data are updated at least once per day. The update times may vary each day. The summary data provided on the website includes domain names that, at the time of publication, were recently purchased and subject to a five day grace period during which the domain names may be deleted and a credit may be issued to a registrar (the “add grace period”). The number of active domain names subject to the add grace period is typically immaterial. The numbers provided in this Form 10-K are the numbers as of midnight of the date reported, include domain names registered but not configured for use, and do not include domain names subject to the add grace period and therefore cannot be compared to the summary posted on our website. The information available on, or accessible through, this website is not incorporated herein by reference.We announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website http://investor.verisign.com,  SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts.  We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed below. This list may be updated from time to time on our investor relations website.https://www.facebook.com/Verisignhttp://www.twitter.com/Verisignhttp://www.LinkedIn.com/company/Verisignhttp://www.youtube.com/user/Verisign3http://www.VerisignInc.comhttp://blogs.VerisignInc.comThe contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file, and any reference to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.  Naming Services  Registry Services  Registry Services operates the authoritative directory of all .com, .net, .cc, .tv, and .name domain names and the back-end systems for all .gov, .jobs and .edu domain names, among others. Registry Services allows individuals and organizations to establish their online identities, while providing the secure, always-on access they need to communicate and transact reliably with large-scale online audiences.  We are the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com, .net and .name generic top-level domains (“gTLDs”) under agreements with ICANN and also, with respect to the .com agreement, the U.S. Department of Commerce (“DOC”). As a registry, we maintain the master directory of all second-level domain names in these TLDs (e.g., johndoe.com and janedoe.net). Our global constellation of domain name servers provides Internet Protocol (“IP”) address information in response to queries, enabling the use of browsers, email systems, and other systems on the Internet.  In addition, we own and maintain the shared registration system that allows all registrars to enter new second-level domain names into the master directory and to submit modifications, transfers, re-registrations and deletions for existing second-level domain names (“Shared Registration System”).  Separate from our agreements with ICANN, we have agreements to be the exclusive registry for the .tv and .cc country code top-level domains (“ccTLDs”) and to operate the back-end registry systems for the .gov, .jobs and .edu gTLDs, among others. These TLDs are also supported by our global constellation of domain name servers and Shared Registration System.  With our existing gTLDs and ccTLDs, we also provide internationalized domain name (“IDN”) services that enable Internet users to access websites in characters representing their local language. Currently, IDNs may be registered in as many as 350 different native languages and scripts.   Domain names can be registered for between one and 10 years, and the fees charged for .com and .net may only be increased according to adjustments prescribed in our agreements with ICANN over the applicable term. With respect to .com, price increases require prior approval by the DOC according to the terms of Amendment 32 of the Cooperative Agreement between the DOC and Verisign. Revenues for registrations of .name are not subject to the same pricing restrictions as those applicable to .com and .net; however, .name fees charged are subject to our agreement with ICANN over the applicable term. Revenues for .cc and .tv domain names are based on a similar fee system and registration system, though the fees charged are not subject to the same pricing restrictions as those imposed by ICANN. The fees received from operating the .gov registry are based on the terms of Verisign’s agreement with the U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”). The fees received from operating the .jobs registry infrastructure are based on the terms of Verisign’s agreement with the registry operator of .jobs. No fees are received from operating the .edu registry infrastructure. Historically, we have experienced higher domain name growth in the first quarter of the year compared to other quarters. Our quarterly revenue does not reflect these seasonal patterns because the preponderance of our revenue for each quarterly period is provided by the ratable recognition of our deferred revenue balance.  The effect of this seasonality has historically resulted in the largest amount of growth in our deferred revenue balance occurring during the first quarter of the year compared to the other quarters. NIA Services  NIA Services provides infrastructure assurance to organizations and is comprised of iDefense, Managed DNS and DDoS Protection Services. DDoS Protection Services supports online business continuity by providing monitoring and mitigation services against DDoS attacks. We help companies stay online without needing to make significant investments in infrastructure or establish internal DDoS expertise. As a cloud-based service, it can be deployed quickly and easily, with no customer premise equipment required. This saves time and money through operational efficiencies, support cost, and economies of scale to provide detection and protection against the largest DDoS attacks. Customers include financial institutions and e-commerce providers. Customers pay a subscription fee that varies depending on the customer’s network requirements. 4 iDefense provides 24 hours a day, every day of the year, access to cyber intelligence related to vulnerabilities, malicious code, and global threats. Our teams enable companies to improve vulnerability management, incident response, fraud mitigation, and proactive mitigation of the particular threats targeting their industry or global operations. Customers include financial institutions, large corporations, and governmental and quasi-governmental organizations. Customers pay a subscription fee for iDefense.  Managed DNS is a hosting service that delivers DNS resolution, improving the availability of web-based systems. It provides DNS availability through a globally distributed, securely managed, cloud-based DNS infrastructure, allowing enterprises to save on capital expenses associated with DNS infrastructure deployment and reduce operational costs and complexity associated with DNS management.  Managed DNS service provides full support for DNS Security Extensions (“DNSSEC”) compliance features and Geo Location traffic routing capabilities.  DNSSEC is designed to protect the DNS infrastructure from man-in-the-middle attacks that corrupt, or poison, DNS data. Geo Location allows website owners to customize responses for end-users based on their physical location or IP address, giving them the ability to deliver location-specific content. Customers include financial institutions, e-commerce, and software-as-a-service providers.  Customers pay a subscription fee that varies based on the amount of DNS traffic they receive. Operations Infrastructure Our operations infrastructure consists of three secure data centers in Dulles, Virginia; New Castle, Delaware; and Fribourg, Switzerland as well as approximately 70 resolution sites around the world. These secure data centers operate 24 hours a day, supporting our business units and services. The performance and scale of our infrastructure are critical for our business, and give us the platform to maintain our leadership position. Key features of our operations infrastructure include:  •Distributed Servers:    We operate a large number of high-speed servers globally to support localized capacity and availability demands.  In conjunction with our proprietary software, processes and procedures, this platform offers automatic failover, global and local load balancing, and threshold monitoring on critical servers.  •Networking:    We deploy and maintain a redundant and diverse global Internet network, and maintain high-speed connections to numerous Internet service providers (“ISPs”) and maintain peering relationships globally to ensure that our critical services are readily accessible to customers at all times.  •Security:    We incorporate architectural concepts such as protected domains, restricted nodes and distributed access control in our system architecture. In addition, we employ firewalls and intrusion detection software, as well as proprietary security mechanisms at many points across our infrastructure.  We perform recurring internal vulnerability testing and controls audits, and also contract with third-party security consultants who perform periodic penetration tests and security risk assessments on our systems. Verisign has engineered resiliency and diversity into how it hosts classes of products throughout its set of interconnected sites to mitigate unknown vendor defects and zero-hour security vulnerabilities.  This includes different physical security silos, which themselves are separated into bulkheads, and in which servers are located. Corporate networks are in their own physical silo. Thus, the corporate networks to which personnel directly connect are separated from the silos that house production services; administration of production gear from corporate systems must go through an internal, fortified intermediary; and account credentials used within the corporate networks are not used within the production silos, nor on the fortified systems.•Data Integrity:    Verisign employs both phased and systemic integrity validation operations via a number of proprietary mechanisms on all internal DNS publication operations. As part of our operations infrastructure for our Registry Services business, we operate all authoritative domain name servers that answer domain name lookups for the .com and .net zones, as well as for the other TLDs for which we are the registry. We also administer and operate two of the 13 root zone servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the DNS hierarchy. Our domain name servers provide the associated authoritative name servers and IP addresses for every .com and .net domain name on the Internet and a large number of other TLD queries, resulting in an average of over 110 billion transactions per day.  These name servers are located in resolution sites which are in a controlled and monitored environment, incorporating security and system maintenance features. This network of name servers is one of the cornerstones of the Internet’s DNS infrastructure.In 2013 and 2014, we continued to expand our infrastructure to meet demands to support normal and peak system load and attack volumes based on what we have experienced historically, as well as to accommodate projected Internet attack trends. Call Centers and Help Desk:    We provide customer support services through our phone-based call centers, email help desks and Web-based self-help systems. Our Virginia call center is staffed 24 hours a day, every day of the year to support our 5businesses. All call centers have a staff of trained customer support agents and also provide Web-based support services utilizing customized automatic response systems to provide self-help recommendations.  Operations Support and Monitoring:    Through our network operations centers, we have an extensive monitoring capability that enables us to track the status and performance of our critical database systems and our global resolution systems. Our distributed network operations centers are staffed 24 hours a day, every day of the year.  Disaster Recovery Plans:    We have disaster recovery and business continuity capabilities that are designed to deal with the loss of entire data centers and other facilities. Our Registry Services business maintains dual mirrored data centers that allow rapid failover with no data loss and no loss of function or capacity, as well as off-continent tertiary Registry Services capabilities. Our critical data services (including domain name registration and global resolution) use advanced storage systems that provide data protection through techniques such as synchronous mirroring and remote replication. Marketing, Sales and Distribution  We offer promotional marketing programs for our registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate.  We seek to expand our existing businesses through focused marketing programs that target growth in the .com and .net domain name base, particularly in emerging international markets, and by extending our brand and serving new markets through the IDNs for which we have applied.  We market our NIA Services worldwide through multiple distribution channels, including direct sales and indirect channels. We have marketing and sales offices throughout the world.  Research and Development  We believe that timely development of new and enhanced services, including monitoring and visualization, registry provisioning platforms, navigation and resolution services, data services, value added services, and NIA Services is necessary to remain competitive in the marketplace. During 2014, 2013 and 2012 our research and development expenses were $67.8 million, $70.3 million and $61.7 million, respectively.  Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our current technologies and services, and to develop new ones. We actively investigate and incubate new concepts, and evaluate new business ideas through our innovation pipeline.  In conjunction, we also continue to focus on growing our patent portfolio and consider opportunities for its strategic use.  We expect that most of the future enhancements to our existing services and our new services will be the result of internal development efforts in collaboration with suppliers, other vendors, customers and the technology community.  Under certain circumstances, we may also acquire or license technology from third parties.  The markets for our services are dynamic, characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The constantly changing nature of these markets and their rapid evolution will require us to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and to introduce both new and enhanced services as quickly as possible and prior to our competitors. Competition  We compete with numerous companies in each of the Registry Services and NIA Services businesses. The overall number of our competitors may increase and the identity and composition of competitors may change over time. New technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. We cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. The existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. Competition in Registry Services: We face competition in the domain name registry space from other gTLD and ccTLD registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a Web presence. In addition to the three gTLDs we operate (.com, .net and .name), and the 18 other operational gTLDs delegated before October 23, 2013, there are over 250 Latin script ccTLD registries and more than 40 IDN ccTLD registries. Under our agreements with ICANN, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com, .net and .name on pricing, bundling, marketing, methods of distribution, the introduction of new registry services and use of registrars that do not apply to ccTLDs and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. If other registries launch marketing campaigns for new or existing TLDs, including forms of marketing campaigns that we are prohibited from running under the terms of our agreements 6with ICANN, which result in registrars or their resellers giving other TLDs greater prominence on their websites, advertising or marketing materials, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and our business could suffer. In addition, on October 23, 2013, the DOC began to authorize, and Verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gTLDs. ICANN is executing registry agreements with new gTLD applicants, awarding over 1,300 new gTLDs in an initial round under its new gTLD program, and plans on offering a second round of new gTLDs after the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. For additional information about the potential risks presented by these new gTLDs, see “We may face additional competition, operational and other risks from the introduction of new gTLDs by ICANN, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.”We also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other DNS services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. Among the competitors are Neustar, Inc., Afilias Limited, ARI Registry Services, Donuts Inc. and RightSide Inc. In addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo!, operators of social networks such as Facebook, and operators of microblogging tools such as Twitter. Furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications.U.S. and most other countries’ trademark laws do not permit the registration of TLDs such as .com and .net as trademarks.  Accordingly, Verisign’s ability to prevent other registries from using the .com and .net brand in their marketing materials may be limited.Competition in NIA Services: Several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. Many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. If such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully.  In addition, it may be difficult to compete against consolidation and partnerships among our competitors which create integrated product suites.We face competition in the network intelligence and availability services industry from companies or services such as iSight Partners, IBM X-Force, Secunia ApS, Dell SecureWorks, McAfee, Inc., Akamai Technologies Inc. (including their acquisition ofProlexic Technologies, Inc.), AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications, Inc., Dyn, Inc., Neustar, Inc., OpenDNS, BlueCat Networks, Inc., Infoblox Inc., Nominum, Inc. and Afilias Limited. Industry Regulation  Registry Services: Within the U.S. Government, oversight of the DNS is provided by the DOC. Effective October 1, 2009, the DOC and ICANN entered into a new agreement, known as the “Affirmation of Commitments” which replaced the seventh amendment of the original Memorandum of Understanding and known as the Joint Project Agreement. Under the Affirmation of Commitments, the DOC became one of several parties working together with other representative constituency members in providing an on-going review of ICANN’s performance and accountability. The Affirmation of Commitments sets forth a periodic review process by committees which provide for more international and multi-discipline participation. These review panels are charged with reviewing and making recommendations regarding: (i) the accountability and transparency of ICANN; (ii) the security, stability and resiliency of the DNS; (iii) the impact of new gTLDs on competition, consumer trust, and consumer choice; and (iv) the effectiveness of ICANN’s policies with respect to registrant data in meeting the legitimate needs of law enforcement and promoting consumer trust. Under the Affirmation of Commitments, the Assistant Secretary of Communications and Information of the DOC will be a member of the “Accountability and Transparency” review panel. Individual reviews from each panel generally are to occur no less than every three to four years.  As the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com, .net and .name gTLDs, we have entered into certain agreements with ICANN and, in the case of .com, the DOC:  .com Registry Agreement: On November 29, 2012, we renewed our Registry Agreement with ICANN for the .com gTLD (the “.com Registry Agreement”).  The .com Registry Agreement provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .com TLD through November 30, 2018. The  .com Registry Agreement revised the pricing provisions for .com domain name registrations contained in the prior agreement to provide that the price of a .com domain name shall not exceed $7.85 for the term of the Agreement except that we will continue to have the right to increase the price of a .com domain name during the term, subject to the terms of the  Cooperative Agreement as set forth below, due  to the imposition of any new 7Consensus Policy or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the Security or Stability (each as defined in the .com Registry Agreement) of the DNS not to exceed 7% above the price in the prior year.  Additionally, on a quarterly basis, we pay $0.25 to ICANN for each annual increment of a domain name registered or renewed during such quarter. See Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. We are required to comply with and implement temporary specifications or policies and consensus policies, as well as other provisions pursuant to the .com Registry Agreement relating to handling of data and other registry operations. The .com Registry Agreement also provides a procedure for Verisign to propose, and ICANN to review and approve, additional registry services.The .com Registry Agreement provides that it shall be renewed for successive terms unless it has been determined that Verisign has been in fundamental and material breach of certain provisions of the .com Registry Agreement and has failed to cure such breach.  As further described below, Verisign may not enter into any renewal of the .com Registry Agreement, or any other extension or continuation of, or substitution for, the .com Registry Agreement without prior written approval by the DOC.   Cooperative Agreement: On November 29, 2012, Verisign and the DOC entered into Amendment Number Thirty-Two (32) (“Amendment 32”) to the Cooperative Agreement between Verisign and the DOC (the “Cooperative Agreement”), which approved the renewal of the .com Registry Agreement on the terms and conditions described below as in the public interest. Except as modified by Amendment 32, the terms and conditions of the Cooperative Agreement, including Amendment Thirty (30) to the Cooperative Agreement, which was entered into on November 29, 2006 by the Company and the DOC, remain unchanged. Amendment 32 provides that the Maximum Price (as defined in the .com Registry Agreement) of a .com domain name shall not exceed $7.85 for the term of the .com Registry Agreement, except that the we are entitled to increase the Maximum Price of a .com domain name due to the imposition of any new Consensus Policy or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the Security or Stability of the DNS as described in the  .com Registry Agreement, provided that we may not exercise such right unless the DOC provides prior written approval that the exercise of such right will serve the public interest, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. Amendment 32 further provides that we shall be entitled at any time during the term of the .com Registry Agreement to seek to remove the pricing restrictions contained in the .com Registry Agreement if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant pricing restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement, as determined by the DOC. Amendment 32 also provides that the DOC’s approval of the .com Registry Agreement is not intended to confer federal antitrust immunity on us with respect to the .com Registry Agreement and extends the term of the Cooperative Agreement through November 30, 2018. The Cooperative Agreement also provides that any renewal or extension of the .com Registry Agreement is subject to prior written approval by the DOC. Amendment 30 to the Cooperative Agreement provides that the DOC shall approve such renewal if it concludes that approval will serve the public interest in (a) the continued security and stability of the Internet DNS and the operation of the .com registry including, in addition to other relevant factors, consideration of Verisign’s compliance with consensus policies and technical specifications, its service level agreements as set forth in the .com Registry Agreement, and the investment associated with improving the security and stability of the DNS, and (b) the provision of Registry Services as defined in the .com Registry Agreement at reasonable prices, terms and conditions. The parties have an expectancy of renewal of the .com Registry Agreement so long as the foregoing public interest standard is met and Verisign is not in breach of the .com Registry Agreement. .net Registry Agreement: On June 27, 2011, we entered into a renewal of our Registry Agreement with ICANN for the .net gTLD (the “.net Registry Agreement”). The .net Registry Agreement provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .net TLD through June 30, 2017. The .net Registry Agreement provides that it shall be renewed unless it has been determined that Verisign has been in fundamental and material breach of certain provisions of the .net Registry Agreement and has failed to cure such breach.  The descriptions of the .com Registry Agreement, Amendment 32, Amendment 30, the Cooperative Agreement, and the .net Registry Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the text of the complete agreements that are incorporated by reference as exhibits in this Form 10-K.  .name Registry Agreement: On December 1, 2012, Verisign and ICANN entered into a revised .name Registry Agreement which provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the .name TLD through August 15, 2018. The renewal provisions are the same as for the .net Registry Agreement.  Some of the services we provide to customers globally may require approval under applicable U.S. export law. As the list of products and countries requiring export approval expands or changes, government restrictions on the export of software and hardware products utilizing encryption technology may grow and become an impediment to our growth in international markets. If we do not obtain required approvals or we violate applicable laws, we may not be able to provide some of our services in international markets and may be subject to fines and other penalties.8 Intellectual Property  We rely primarily on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, patents, restricti