RISK FACTORS Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky. In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. When the factors, events and contingencies described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K materialize, our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, cash flows or prospects can be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, cash flows and prospects. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the SEC.Risks arising from our agreements governing our business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business.We are parties to (i) a Cooperative Agreement, as amended, with the DOC with respect to the .com gTLD and (ii) Registry Agreements with ICANN with respect to the .com, .net, .name, and other gTLDs including our IDN gTLDs. As substantially all of our revenues are derived from operation of these gTLDs, limitations and obligations in, or changes or challenges to, these agreements, particularly the agreements that involve .com and .net, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain competing registries, such as the ccTLDs, are not subject to the same limitations or obligations that we are subject to in our agreements. Verisign and the DOC entered into Amendment 35 to the Cooperative Agreement on October 26, 2018, which, among other things, extends the term of the Cooperative Agreement through November 30, 2024. As amended by Amendment 35, the Cooperative Agreement will automatically renew on the same terms for successive six-year terms unless the DOC provides written notice of non-renewal within 120 days prior to the end of the then-current term.  Further changes to the Cooperative Agreement require the mutual agreement of the DOC and the Company.Modifications or Amendments. In October 2016, the Company and ICANN entered into an amendment to extend the term of the .com Registry Agreement to November 30, 2024 (“First .com Amendment”).  As part of the First .com Amendment, the Company and ICANN agreed to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the .com Registry Agreement: (i) by October 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the .com TLD, and (ii) as may be necessary for consistency with changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the Cooperative Agreement. On January 3, 2020, the Company and ICANN announced that they reached a proposed agreement to amend the .com Registry Agreement (“Proposed .com Amendment”) and to enter into a new proposed framework for working together on initiatives related to the security, stability and resiliency of the DNS in the form of a binding Letter of Intent (“Proposed LOI”). Together these agreements satisfy the requirements described as part of the First .com Amendment. In conjunction with the public announcement, ICANN published the Proposed .com Amendment and the Proposed LOI for public comment until February 14, 2020. Although we do not anticipate changes to these documents, we can provide no assurance that modifications will not be made in connection with the public comment process or otherwise. See the “Industry Regulation” section in Part I, Item 1 for further information. Under the Cooperative Agreement, as amended by Amendment 35, standard renewals of the .com Registry Agreement will not require further DOC approval, although removal of, or any changes to the pricing section (other than as approved in Amendment 35), changes to the vertical integration provisions (other than the clarification approved in Amendment 35), changes to the security, stability and resiliency posture as reflected in the functional or performance specifications (including the SLAs), changes to the conditions for renewal or termination, or changes to the Whois service (other than such changes mandated by ICANN through temporary specifications or policies (“Temporary Policies”) and specifications or polices adopted by ICANN pursuant to the procedures set forth in its bylaws and due process (“Consensus Policies”)), as set forth in Amendment 35, the prior written approval of the DOC is required. We can provide no assurances that such approval would be provided. In addition, our Registry Agreements for new gTLDs, including the Registry Agreements for our IDN gTLDs, include ICANN’s right to amend the agreements without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gTLDs. At the time of renewal of our .com or .net Registry Agreements, ICANN might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these Registry Agreements under certain conditions. ICANN has also included new mandatory obligations on new gTLD registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gTLDs. ICANN might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other Registry Agreements under certain conditions. We can provide no assurance that any changes to our Registry Agreements as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Pricing. Under the terms of the Cooperative Agreement, as amended by Amendment 35, the Company and ICANN may agree to amend the terms of the .com Registry Agreement to permit the price of registrations or renewals of .com domain names to be increased by up to 7% per year in each of the final four years of each six-year period beginning on October 26, 2018. The Proposed .com Amendment would allow such price increases. 10In addition, we are entitled to increase the price up to 7% due to the imposition of any new Consensus Policies or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the DNS (“Extraordinary Expense”). The Proposed .com Amendment would clarify that Verisign’s ability to increase prices due to a Consensus Policy or Extraordinary Expense may occur only in years where Verisign does not take a price increase as described in the above paragraph.  It is uncertain whether circumstances would arise that would permit a price increase due to a Consensus Policy or Extraordinary Expense, or if they do, whether we would seek to increase the price for .com domain name registrations for this reason. We also have the right under the Cooperative Agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. However, it is uncertain whether we will seek the removal of such restrictions, or whether the DOC would approve the removal of such restrictions. In comparison, under the terms of the .net and .name Registry Agreements with ICANN, we are permitted to increase the price of domain name registrations and renewals in these TLDs up to 10% per year. Additionally, ICANN’s registry agreements for new gTLDs do not contain such pricing restrictions.Vertical integration. Under Amendment 35, the parties clarified that the restrictions in the .com Registry Agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the .com TLD.  This clarification is now set forth in the Proposed .com Amendment. As to the .com TLD, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any ICANN-accredited registrar that sells .com domain name registrations.  Historically, all gTLD registry operators were subject to a vertical integration prohibition; however, ICANN has established a process whereby registry operators may seek ICANN’s approval to remove this restriction, and ICANN has approved such removal for certain other registry operators.  Additionally, ICANN’s registry agreement for new gTLDs generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including ICANN’s right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. If we seek to become vertically integrated, except with respect to .com, it is uncertain whether approval to do so would be obtained under ICANN’s processes.  Furthermore, even if we obtain such approval, we can provide no assurances that we will enter the domain name retail market, or that we will be successful if we choose to do so. If registry operators of other TLDs, including ccTLDs, are able to obtain competitive advantages through vertical integration, and we are not, it could materially harm our business.Renewal and Termination. Our .com, .net, and .name Registry Agreements with ICANN contain “presumptive” rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on November 30, 2024, June 30, 2023 and August 15, 2020, respectively. The Registry Agreements for our new gTLDs including our IDN gTLDs are subject to a 10-year term and contain similar “presumptive” renewal rights. If certain terms in our .com and .net Registry Agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gTLDs, then a renewal of these agreements shall be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms similar to the registry agreements for those other gTLDs. There can be no assurance that such terms, if they apply, will not have a material adverse impact on our business. A failure by ICANN to approve the renewal of the .com Registry Agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on November 30, 2024 or to approve the renewal of the .net Registry Agreement prior to or upon the expiration of its current term on June 30, 2023, would have, absent an extension, a material adverse effect on our business. ICANN could terminate or refuse to renew our .com or .net Registry Agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. ICANN’s termination or refusal to renew either the .com or .net Registry Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. Consensus Policies. Our Registry Agreements with ICANN require us to implement Consensus Policies and Temporary Policies. ICANN could adopt Consensus Policies or Temporary Policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com, .net and our other gTLDs, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the Company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. Such Consensus Policies or Temporary Policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. As an example, ICANN has adopted a Consensus Policy that requires Verisign to receive and display Thick Whois data for .com and .net, although that Policy is scheduled to be reviewed by ICANN. In addition, ICANN has adopted an interim Consensus Policy that establishes temporary requirements for registry operators and registrars regarding the collection, display and disclosure of Thick Whois data pending ICANN’s establishment of a permanent Consensus Policy. The costs of complying or failing to comply with these policies as well as laws and regulations, such as General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), regarding personal information and data privacy, such as domestic and various foreign privacy regimes, could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. Technical Standards and ICANN Processes.  Our Registry Agreements with ICANN require Verisign to implement and comply with various technical standards and specifications published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (“IETF”). ICANN could impose requirements on us through changes to these IETF standards that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the Company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. Any such changes to the IETF standards could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, under 11Amendment 35, we have agreed to continue to operate the .com TLD in a content-neutral manner and to work within ICANN processes to promote the development of content-neutral policies for the operation of the DNS and under the Proposed LOI, we have agreed to work with the ICANN community to develop certain best practices and other commitments for the security, stability and resiliency of the DNS and the internet. Such policies and processes could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. Legal Challenges. Our Registry Agreements have faced, and could face in the future, challenges, including possible legal challenges, resulting from our activities or the activities of ICANN, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business.Governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the U.S. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business.Application of new and existing laws and regulations in the U.S. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. The costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. For example, the government of China has indicated that it will issue, and in some instances has begun to issue, new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that impose additional costs on, and risks to, our provision of registry services in China and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in China. In addition to registry operators, some of these regulations also require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each TLD whose domain name registrations they intend to sell directly to registrants. Any failure to obtain the required licenses, or to comply with any license requirements or any updates thereto, by us or our registrars could impact our current and future business in China.Foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. For example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, online gambling, counterfeit goods, and intellectual property violations such as cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cybersecurity may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. To conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and receive data originating from different jurisdictions, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the United States and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, the European Union’s GDPR, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and significant penalties, became effective in May 2018. Other countries and other states have enacted or are enacting data localization laws regulating or limiting data collection, storage and transfer as well as granting new rights to data subjects. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements can impose significant costs for us that are likely to increase over time.Due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that federal, state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified or enforced using new or novel legal theories, and new laws may be enacted in the future. In addition, as we continue to launch and market our IDN gTLDs and increase our marketing efforts of our other TLDs in foreign countries, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. Any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, expose us to liability, penalties or fines, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. In addition, any such laws could impede growth of, or result in a decline in, domain name registrations.Undetected or unknown defects in our systems or services, security breaches including from vulnerabilities, defects in the technologies, components, and services in our supply chain, and Distributed Denial of Service (“DDoS”) attacks could expose us to liability and materially harm our business and reputation.Services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. Despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in service outages or disruptions, compromised customer data, including DNS data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. Performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. Our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security vulnerabilities and breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet 12contracted service level obligations, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs.In addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. We retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. It is critical to our business strategy, as well as fulfilling our obligations as the registry operator for .com and .net, that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure, that we continue to meet our service level agreements and that we maintain the public’s trust in the internet services that we provide. The Company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. These include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. These forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. In addition, these forms of attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target’s supply chain or operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. In addition to external threats, we may be subject to insider threats, including those from third-party suppliers such as consultants and advisors, SaaS providers, hardware, software, and network systems manufacturers, and other outside vendors, or from current or former contractors or employees; these threats can be realized from intentional or unintentional actions. The Shared Registration System, the root zone servers, the root zone file, the Root Zone Maintainer System, the TLD name servers and the TLD zone files that we operate are critical to our operations. Therefore, attacks against third-party suppliers that provide services to our operations could also impact our infrastructure. Despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, that was previously disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, disruptions resulting from destructive malware, hardware or enabling software defects, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. It is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems.  Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of, or jeopardize the security of, information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. In such an event, we could face significant liability, fail to meet contracted service level obligations, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business or cause financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. Such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market’s perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services.We use externally developed technology, systems and services including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including, without limitation, compute, storage, encryption and authentication, back-office support, and other functions. While we have developed operational policies and procedures to reduce the impact of security vulnerabilities in system components, as well as at any vendors where Company data is stored or processed, such measures cannot provide absolute security. While we strive to remediate known vulnerabilities on a timely basis, such vulnerabilities could be exploited before our remediation is effective and if so, could cause systems and service interruptions, data loss and other damages any of which could be materially harmful to our business. Vulnerabilities in, and exploits leading to, breaches of our or our vendors’ technology, systems or services could expose us or our customers to a risk of outages, loss or misuse of Company data, including but not limited to sensitive personal information.Additionally, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to DDoS attacks. Recent attacks have demonstrated that DDoS attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have an ability to widely disrupt internet services. Particularly since 2016, the size of DDoS attacks has grown rapidly, and we have successfully mitigated DDoS attacks during this time frame that are significantly larger than those we have historically experienced.  While we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. Any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations, and generally impede our ability to provide reliable service to our customers and the broader internet community. We have historically incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs to enable our infrastructure to process levels of attack traffic that are significant multiples of our normal transaction volume.  Further, we are in the process of transitioning our security services customer contracts to Neustar. We will operate our DDoS protection services during this transition period. These DDoS protection services share some of the infrastructure used to protect our registry services business.  Therefore the operation of such services might expose our critical infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by DDoS attacks against those customers, in addition to any attacks directed specifically against us and our networks. Any new technologies or services used to replace or enhance existing or future DDoS and other attack mitigation capabilities may introduce risk that may not exist today in those environments and, if security incidents occur associated with those new technologies or services, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our 13contracted service level obligations, and generally impede our ability to provide reliable service to our customers and the broader internet community.Changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business.The internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector, including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as ICANN, governments, including the U.S. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. Role of the U.S. Government. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the U.S. government completed a transition to the multi-stakeholder community of the historical role played by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) in the coordination of the DNS. Changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. For example, ICANN has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance accountability through a new organization called the Empowered Community, which is comprised of a cross section of stakeholders. ICANN or the Empowered Community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business. By completing the transition discussed above, the U.S. government through the NTIA has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the DNS including the IANA functions and the root zone. There can be no assurance that the removal of the U.S. government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business.Role of ICANN. ICANN plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. ICANN is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. If ICANN or the Empowered Community fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. Additionally, the Empowered Community could adversely impact ICANN, which could negatively impact its ability to coordinate the multi-stakeholder system of governance, or negatively affect our interests. Also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of ICANN, the Empowered Community or us.Role of Foreign Governments. Some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned ICANN’s role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. Additionally, the role of ICANN’s Governmental Advisory Committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, and give governments more control of certain aspects of internet governance. Some governments and governmental authorities outside the U.S. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of ICANN, the U.S. government and us relating to the DNS. Changes to the roles that foreign governments play in internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business.We face risks from our operation of two root zone servers and performance of the Root Zone Maintainer functions under the RZMA. We operate two of the 13 root zone servers. Root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the DNS hierarchy. These servers have the software and DNS configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the TLDs. These root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet.  We also have an important operational role in support of a key IANA function as the Root Zone Maintainer.  In this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators under an agreement with ICANN, the Root Zone Maintainer Service Agreement (“RZMA”).   As we perform the Root Zone Maintainer Services under the RZMA, we may be subject to significant claims challenging the agreement or our performance under the agreement, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification or insurance for, such claims. Additionally, over 1,200 new gTLDs have already been delegated into the root zone in the current round of new gTLDs. ICANN plans on offering a subsequent round of new gTLDs, the timing of which remains uncertain.  We believe there are potential security and stability issues that could involve the root zone and at other levels of the DNS from the deployment of the new gTLDs that should have been addressed before any new gTLDs were delegated, and despite our and others’ efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by ICANN sufficiently, if at all. For example, domain name collisions have been reported to ICANN, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing and other cyber-attacks. It is anticipated that as additional new gTLDs are delegated now, or in subsequent rounds, more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur.14The evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names.Domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers and businesses to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity for many years. The growth of technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. These changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for personal, commercial and investment reasons. Factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. Some domain name registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names at an increased price. Adverse changes in the resale value of domain names, changes in the business models for such domain name registrars and registrants, or other factors, including regulations limiting the resale of domain names, could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our TLDs. Such a resulting decrease in demand and/or renewal rates could negatively impact the volume of new domain name registrations, our renewal rates and our associated revenue growth.Some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and dev