 Welcome to the MOOC's course Transport Phenomena of Non-Newtonian Fluids. This is a kind of introduction of the course so that one can decide whether to choose this subject or not. So in this course we will be studying transport phenomena that is momentum, heat and mass transfer phenomena, either individually or combined together or all three processes occurring or three transfer processes occurring together. Sometimes there may also reactions involved, heterogeneous or homogenous reactions may also involve, so those kind of problems we will be studying in this course. And, but however this, this transport phenomena would be specific to the non-Newtonian fluid. We will take a Newtonian, few Newtonian cases also but very few, but most of the course will be entirely on the non-Newtonian fluids. So why should we have a separate transport phenomena course on non-Newtonian fluids? Because non-Newtonian fluids are existing almost all industries wherever fluids are involved, such as polymer industry. So most of the polymer solutions are found to be obeying, you know shear-thinning kind of non-Newtonian behavior; petroleum industry where enhanced oil recovery etc has been done using some polymer etc and then drilling muds also sometimes, they display visco-plastic behavior of non-Newtonian nature. Food industry, many food products like, such as chocolates, beverage etc also display variety of non-Newtonian characteristics. Same is true for the cosmetic industry, beverages industry, cement industry even some biological fluids such as you know, saliva, synovial fluids etc also display, even blood also displays some amount of non-Newtonian behavior under, you know specified shear rates etc. And in mining industry, paints, pharmaceuticals industry so the list may go on if you keep on writing because these non-Newtonian fluids may be found in almost every industry wherever the fluids are being processed and many of these fluids may display variety of non-Newtonian fluids depending on the range of the rate of shear rate applied in those industries. Then, so that is the reason, necessity of the course Transport Phenomena of non-Newtonian fluids, because we will be discussing, you know momentum, heat and mass transfer phenomena of non-Newtonian fluids with or without chemical reaction involved so that whatever the transport information, transport phenomena information that we get from the transport phenomena of non-Newtonian fluids, that will be very much essential and play vital role in designing and, or manipulating operating conditions of these industrial settings that we have just seen. So if your design is already there, so then you can, you can modify the operating conditions based on the nature of the fluids that you are going to handle. The nature of the non-Newtonian behavior that fluid is having, so accordingly you can manipulate these conditions if your design is already existing. We are going to see many cases. The transport phenomena for simple non-Newtonian fluids like time-independent non-Newtonian fluids are degrading very much away from the Newtonian behavior. So those, this information about non-Newtonian fluids are very much essential. So whatever the a priori information about the performance of these fluids in variety of industrial settings can be achieved with the advent of this course. So those kind of a priori information we can achieve so that we can use this information in the industry, say either it is designing or in manipulating or modifying the operating conditions as per requirement of the fluids and in product, final product settings. So what are the topics to be covered in this course? Primarily we start with the, with some basics of the transport phenomena and then we see the classification of non-Newtonian fluids. Then also we see the models for different types of non-Newtonian fluid behavior. So we cannot have a single model for non-Newtonian fluid as we have a one single model for a Newtonian fluid behavior. Even for one single type of non-Newtonian fluid, there may be many types of mathematical models available. So we are going to see these models for all time-independent, time dependent and visco-elastic type of non-Newtonian fluids. Then we also see the rheological measurements of these non-Newtonian fluids, how to measure the rheological behavior? So when you know how to measure the rheological behavior then only you can use that information in the, in the transport phenomena. So that rheology part of non-Newtonian fluids is also discussed in this course. Once having these basics of non-Newtonian fluids, then we go into the momentum transfer phenomena of non-Newtonian fluids and varieties of geometries, plain geometries, packed bed geometries, etc. Then we also see heat transfer phenomena of the, these non-Newtonian fluids including free convection, viscous dissipation, transpiration cooling kind of thing which we in general do not study in U G level normal transport phenomena course of chemical engineering. So we are going to discuss these kind of things also in heat transfer phenomena. And then under the mass transfer part, we will be studying the mass transfer phenomena of Newtonian and non-Newtonian fluids when combined with the momentum transfer or it is combined with the heat transfer or it is combined with some kind of reactions, either heterogeneous or homogenous reactions. Finally we will be studying boundary layer flows where, you know momentum, thermal and concentration boundary layers of non-Newtonian fluids will be discussed and respective boundary layer thickness equations would be developed for non-Newtonian fluids. So this course may be very much suitable to the B Tech final year course, fourth year elective course or M Tech, P h D students it can be taken as a core course as well as the elective course. So primarily this can be very much useful to the chemical engineering and mechanical engineering plus associated branches like petroleum science and technology, polymer process engineering, food engineering etc. Coming to the types of questions in this course, the such M C Q type of questions would be very few. Mostly you will be solving problems on pen and paper, either deriving some kind of relations transport phenomena relations or doing some kind of numeric problems. And then submitting them as assignments. So M C Q type will be very few questions. And usually students memorize the equations, you know related to the course but in this course you are not expected to memorize any of the equations especially conservation of mass, momentum, energy and species concentration equations because if at all you wanted to solve the problem where these equations are required those equations would be provided. But however this course is especially for non-Newtonian fluids you are expected to remember the mathematical models of non-Newtonian fluids and then limitations of each of the model so that you can use them for your problem solving. And then related dimensionless numbers of non-Newtonian fluids are expected to be memorized because they will be very much essential in discussing or in solving the numeric type of problems. Sometimes some students also memorize solutions. Solutions like such as velocity profile, volumetric flow rate, rate of heat transfer, Sherwood Number, Nusselt Number correlations etc but those things are not expected to be memorized here because they change very much for non-Newtonian fluids from one fluid to the other fluid,. They change many times drastically. So, and then there are, these are too many. It is very difficult to memorize all of them so even memorizing the solutions, solution equations is not going to be helpful. Thank you. Hope the information provided in this introduction lecture is sufficient for you to decide whether this course is suitable to you or not. Thank you. 