 Good afternoon, my name is Diana Warring. I am the director of the Department of the Interior Museum and it's my pleasure to welcome you here today. Typically our monthly lecture series is focusing on the diverse workings of the Department of the Interior as a whole and our various bureaus, but I'm very pleased to be looking even further inward and hosting a lecture celebrating the 80th anniversary of the Department's museum. The museum is a quite a unique feature and we'll be hearing from our chief curator Tracy Baetz. Tracy joined our staff in 2013 as our chief curator. Since then she's been curating gallery and online exhibits, including "Posterity: WPA's Art Legacy and America's Public Lands," "DOI Pop," "People, Land, and Water," and the forthcoming online exhibit, "Stories In Miniature." "Stories in Miniature" will be posted on the Google Arts and Culture website. Tracy holds a master's degree in American Studies from Florida State University and a bachelor's degree in History and Government from the College of William & Mary. She's curated shows on such diverse topics as photography, baseball, rustic furniture, and folk art. Her career has spanned over 25 years at local, state, and federal museums, including a decade at the Smithsonian Institution and seven years as the executive director of the accredited Brick Store Museum in southern Maine. She was a member of the exhibition team which brought the unprecedented Smithsonian show "Smithsonian's America" to Japan in 1994, and served as curator and outreach coordinator for the Smithsonian's 150th anniversary and traveling exhibit in 1996. She was later the founding program manager for the Smithsonian Affiliations team, a national initiative still in existence, involving partnerships and programming with more than 125 museums nationwide. Please join me in welcoming Tracy. Thank you, Diana, and thank you all. It's a pleasure to be here this afternoon and even more of a pleasure that as an american museum we're still around after 80 years. It's a milestone by any measure, particularly when you consider that we're a bit of a novelty and even a bit of an anomaly. As a museum opening in 1938 in the midst of the Great Depression, we're rare. As a museum at a cabinet-level federal agency, we're doubly rare. And because of this, I think it's worth taking a step back to look and to learn from our origins and frankly our innovations as a museum. So I invite you to join me for the next 45 minutes or so to travel back to the 1930s, and we're gonna jump right in. Our Secretary of the Interior at the time is our 32nd secretary and longest-serving secretary, Harold Ickes. And in 1938, just 10 days after the Interior Museum actually opens to the public on March 8, 1938 -- tomorrow, you know, 80 years -- he sits down to write a response to a letter that he's received from a constituent, a taxpayer, in the Midwest and in it he writes quite emphatically, "museums have no place in the parks at all."  Oh, eek! Seriously, not quite the way you thought I'd begin this talk, right? Well, guess what, museums were at that point relatively a recent development for the National Park Service and the first real museum within the parks was opened at Yosemite in 1926. And by 1938, just 12 years later when Ickes is writing this letter to this guy in the Midwest, there are already some 67 museums located in 45 different sites administered by the Park Service. And a large part of the development of those museums was made possible through the deployment of emergency funds that was starting in 1933. A Western Museums Laboratory overseen by the Park Service in Berkeley, California, and eventually co-located with the college campus, had ramped up to provide for modern parks every interpretive need. So in terms of that 'no museums in the parks'? That horse had really kind of already left the barn on at that point and Ickes begrudgingly kind of concedes as much in his letter to this guy, that parks' museums are kind of here to stay. But he is not happy about it, he goes on to write in that same letter, "nothing makes me want to commit murder so much as to have somebody break in on a reverential contemplation of nature in which I may be indulging by giving me a lot of statistical or descriptive information relating to what I am looking at." Well whoa given that, like how on earth is this the same guy that without whose advocacy the Interior Museum simply would not exist? Well if we unpack his statement just a little bit more, what Ickes is really talking about here is parks, and up to that point in history the National Park Service had been pretty much synonymous at that point with Yosemite, Yellowstone, Crater Lake, Petrified Forest, Grand Canyon -- big wide-open spaces, grandeur, vistas -- and Ickes very clearly doesn't like the notion of education and interpretation intruding upon his moment of Zen. If you're Ickes, there's a definite time and a definite place for museums' statistical and descriptive information. And where he feels it is wholly important -- no, absolutely necessary -- is the new headquarters building that he's planning for the Department of the Interior in 1935. So we got a knock our timeline back a little bit a few years to 1935. DOI is busting at the seams, growing in its responsibilities, and has outgrown its existing World War One-era headquarters, which if you don't know is the GSA building today just north of us across Rawlins Park. Well Ickes undertakes the very ambitious endeavor of creating a new headquarters. Federal Public Works Project Number Four becomes the first federal building to be authorized, planned, and constructed under President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's administration here in DC. From the outset, that building is to embody the principles of utility and economy. It's supposed to be a new deal for a new day, And while it would employ several modern conveniences, it would also reject the grandiose style and frankly the grandiose expenses of previous federal buildings. Ickes was pretty savvy and he knew that DOI had to overcome a public perception problem. For some of the other departments of the day -- Commerce, Agriculture -- it's pretty obvious by their name what they did. But, "interior"? You know, hey, what's that mean? We still get that today, "what's that mean?" And furthermore, the department was and is as an agency very large. It was complex, and its work and its scope were national. And if you lived, for example, in Wyoming, you might only ever interact with the department's Grazing Service or General Land Office. If you're in Nevada, you might only know us for our Bureau of Reclamation. So Ickes used this new headquarters building as truly a blank slate, an opportunity to kind of pull back that curtain and be very transparent to the American public as to what we're all about and show them how we're relevant not to just that guy in Wyoming of that person in Nevada but to the nation as a whole. Consequently this building is planned very intentionally in terms of how it's designed, what it includes, and how it's decorated. Looking back from the vantage point of today, it's really kind of a time capsule, right, as to what was important to the department in the 1930s. What narrative we as a nation were subscribing to at that point, and what the department itself viewed as its origin story. The building design quite literally called for the department's mission to be displayed on its walls and be incorporated into its very being. There are more than 40 murals done by New Deal artists. There will be inclusion of artwork depicting American Indians done by Native American artists, there'll be designs by Indian schoolchildren greeting you on rubber floor mats as soon as you come into the headquarters building, and there'll be an Indian Craft Shop as a tangible expression of the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1935, to help promote the economic welfare of Indians. And there'll be a museum! Yes, a museum! Architectural drawings, actually, for the building are minted by early 1935. Oddly enough they don't show a museum. Well, Ickes never let that stop him. He calls for a museum anyway and he calls for a museum planning committee to be formed. And in mid-February 1935 the Park Service's associate director Arthur Demaray contacts Carl Russell to tell them that, "Hey, I've just recommended you for this planning committee." So, Russell, just a little bit of background on him -- he's already a seasoned Park Service employee who has taken on numerous key assignments all across the country in the past up to this point and has only just weeks before been detailed to Washington DC to help oversee museum projects already underway in eastern parks. He's been authorized to create and oversee a field laboratory out of Morristown, New Jersey that's co-located with Morristown National Historic Park, with access to WPA artists and other talent out of nearby New York City. And really ultimately Russell has grander aspirations of creating a more robust coordinated museum division for all of the Park Service -- and not just something regional and located on the east coast as kind of a counterpart to mirror what's happening for Western Museum Labs. So Russell kind of, you know, goes along with this and accepts this conceptual Interior Museum Planning Committee Assignment, but understandably he's got a lot already on his plate that he's got to kind of rapidly come up to speed on, and so he essentially kind of benignly neglects this whole Interior Museum thing for several weeks, until April 1935. So, a couple months later it rolls around and Russell gets word that secretary Ickes is serious about this and indeed in earnest about this project and he's carved out an entire wing, don't you know, on the first floor of the building, and so what's the status on planning this anyway, Dr. Russell? And it's kind of one of those "oh, shoot!" moments for Russell and he realizes that this is for real and that he better get cracking. So, he writes his wife because she's still on the other side of the country, and he's kind of bemoaning all of this, and he says "Well, one fool minor project like one museum in Washington DC will probably be the salvation of a coordinated national program of museums in the National Parks." Which of course is his personal professional goal -- but famous last words, right? Because this would hardly turn out to be a fool minor project. The Interior Museum is now a pet project of the secretary, it's in high-profile location in the headquarters in Washington DC. So get a load of this timeline -- from a standing start in what is now April 1935, here's what happens -- Russell turns his attentions finally to the Interior Museum. In May, Secretary Ickes comes back and says, "Hey, I've got hold of a hundred thousand dollars in PWA money to devote to this project," and so things just got really real quick. So initial construction begins on the headquarters building that same month Russell recruits a guy named Louis Schellbach and Ned Burns -- I'll tell you more about them in a little bit. And by June, the next month, they're feverishly working on how they can logistically reconfigure the wing that they've been given, that has been drawn up as office space, and make it into a museum, instead -- all while staying just a few steps ahead of the construction workers. Well, come July they've got four planning curators at work on more detailed exhibit plans -- and incidentally they're doing this from a conference table in the stacks of the USGS library, They're burning the candle at both ends, simultaneously getting buy-in from the different bureaus and developing in a race against the clock. By early autumn they have developed a conceptual scale model and they have also constructed a much larger one so that they can really visualize the unbuilt space. In September they submit enough of an exhibit thematic report that preparators up in Morristown can start translating ideas into reality. And by October -- so just seven months after Russell has stepped up to the plate -- plans are submitted for five of the bureau alcoves. And by year's end there are 21 people -- get that through hiring today -- at Morristown to work on Interior Museum exhibits. 12 preparators, 3 per diem carpenters, 3 per diem helpers, a field curator, an equipment engineer, a clerk. And incidentally the two gentlemen third from the left and fourth from the left, right down front, our Ned Burns and Carl Russell. I'm oversimplifying here but this group is simultaneously factoring in six different arenas when they're thinking about assembling the museum, and I've listed them here. First is what that overall visitor experience is going to be. There's a lot of back and forth in the correspondence about precisely why it's proving hard to convert what had initially been earmarked as offices into exhibit space. There's a need to consider floor loads, access points, wide doorways, built-in cases, electrical wiring, locations of outlets, ductwork, anticipated traffic flow, the location of load-bearing columns, smooth even floors that can be easily mopped and swept, pleasing lighting at the proper angles and locations to be able to illuminate displays but blocking out natural lights so those displays don't fade, fabric choices and wall coverings. You might be interested to know that Louis Shellbach actually got really excited about the paint colors, and in a memo he writes, "I have in mind a light orange for the walls, for the ceiling a blue-green or a robin's egg blue, some black in the form of opaque glass. This should look really good and I believe will be a great improvement," get this, "over the usual classic and morgue-like decoration of the usual run of museums." So, the planners have in mind the simplicity of design and as Shellbach says, so as not to detract from the exhibits displayed. They want to keep it simple, and for both practicality and most importantly, quote, "avoid decorative embellishment that provides places for housing and breeding of vermin, that gathers and holds dust and dirt." Well, next up is picking the right objects, and really to make them count. To this end there are liaisons that have been appointed from all the bureaus, they're working with this team of field curators to ascertain what may be available, what stories they're gonna tell, and what stories require objects to tell them, as opposed to some other form or medium. In the production files is an article by Arthur Parker who was a leading archaeologist in the 20s with the New York State Museum and among the advice it contains is, don't err in putting everything possible in a display case. Quote, "piled up storage may be interesting to the curator but it does not arouse the enthusiasm of the visitor. It tells but one story -- that of confusion." Don't put too much in one case. So, the team is really careful to juxtapose with other types of information and while the Interior Museum is largely relying upon the largesse of the bureaus to lend specimens and materials for the displays, the museum actually at this point acquires a very, very important collection of its own. In 1936, under Secretary Ickes' direction, DOI purchases for the sum of $2,000 from Helen Gibson aka Rose Auguste Wagner, a film, radio, and vaudeville star, more than 400 items from her extensive personal collection of American Indian and Alaska native materials. 52 baskets, 50 ceramics, 42 woven textile items, and over 200 other items like dolls and apparel. The earliest pieces date to almost a century earlier, so these are sort of pre-tourist trade kinds of items, and it's a really important collection to us to this day. The next thing the planners are considering is the use of what they're calling didactics -- literally things that teach. They're scientific models, they're cutaways, they're topographical maps and the like, and they farm this work out to an existing Park Service facility that has been operational since 1933 and you'll never guess where it is: Fort Hunt, down on the GW Parkway just north of Mount Vernon. Many of you might be familiar with Fort Hunt for its military uses over the years, and then especially for the top-secret role it would take in interrogation during World War Two with prisoners. But in 1933, it's just been recently decommissioned by the Secretary of War and is functioning as a Civilian Conservation Corps Camp, CCC, and that camp has hundreds of enrollees building trails and clearing timber and doing lots of outdoor projects. But between 1933 and 1938, so for just five short years, they have 20 enrollees working under the direct supervision of some Park Service personnel on building relief maps and models for NPS projects in eastern states. In spring of 1935, the model lab annex, which is really just a one and a half story building, gets an expansion just in time to start working on Interior Museum projects. And sure enough if you look closely at some of the pieces in our collection, many of our small-scale models that were built for those inaugural exhibits have "Fort Hunt" scrawled somewhere either behind or underneath them or have a tag with them. When it comes to illustrations and images, the museum planners actually have a lot of options at their disposal. Photography in displays is not unheard of at that point, but as a matter of price and practicality, there are size constraints. It's not like you can do big jumbo-size murals like you can today with ease. So, far easier it seems for them at this moment is to go the route of illustrations. And between the staff preparators and the WPA artists, there is considerable artistic talent to be found close at hand. Salaries for the preparators are, get this, about $2,000 a year and they've allocated half of that initial hundred thousand dollar PWA fund to salaries. So they enlist Harry Wood to do charts and drawings for exhibit panels and labels, all very neatly hand printed and painted. Lee Roland Warthen, a preeminent illustrator, was brought on to paint larger panels, like this one in the Bureau of Mines alcove. And Wilfrid Bronson, a writer and prolific illustrator of children's books, contributes even larger original works, like this one in a set of four huge paintings for the Bureau of Reclamation's alcove. Arthur Ohlman and Otto Jahn contribute to these large mural maps that will appear throughout the gallery. And then they consult, and then contract, with William Henry Jackson as a subject matter expert on the explorations of the West. You might know him as the eminent photographer and artist who accompanied many of the early expeditions, so he's an eyewitness to this history. But get this, Jackson at this point is in his early 90s -- early 90s! -- and they have to do some really fancy footwork with HR to get him hired but hire him they do. And not only does he provide an original series of pen and inks and watercolors on cardstock for the exhibit, he also does a total of four five-foot murals -- there at the left, there, of this side -- all of which we still have, depicting the four great surveys of the West: Hayden, Powell, King, and Wheeler. The museum planners also spend a lot of time figuring out how best to portray people in action and some of it they can take care of with the illustrations, of course, but there's a real and stated reluctance, very interesting, to use mannequins -- in part because of the size, and you know they have this large space here, but they're also afraid they might get compared to wax figures at carnivals and they're worried how the visiting public might respond to them. So they decide to go to a different route, and they decide to use miniature groupings and small sculptures at the Interior Museum installations instead, and for this they turn to Rosario Russell Fiore, a very accomplished sculptor. Finally, the museum planners are looking to create moments of wonder to enthrall the visitor and for this dioramas are seen as being just the thing. This is the hot technique de jour. The word 'diorama' comes from the Greek 'to see through' and they're essentially a window set onto a scene viewed from the front, but with a painted perspective backdrop to convey a sense of depth. Dioramas had been used primarily in Natural History Museums as habitat displays with taxidermy specimens, the first U.S. one being created for a museum in Milwaukee as early as 1889. But in 1933 they feature prominently at the Century of Progress Expo in Chicago and the diorama craze really takes off with that. It's just like the new fad, and especially for the Park Service. And it's no coincidence that Ned Burns, recruited to lead the Morristown field labs, comes with extensive diorama experience from the City Museum of New York, from the American Museum of Natural History. He's an acknowledged expert and he has with him at Morristown some of the other best in the field in Albert McClure, pictured there, as well as Donald Johnson. Rounding out this diorama team are Frank Urban, Lynne Royal, Rudolf Bauss, and Basil Martin. So let's just lay the groundwork here: the window that you look through to see the scene, it may not be very big but the infrastructure for these dioramas is huge, and they're also really truly works of art. So I want you to take a moment to kind of look as closely as you can at this particular diorama of the Coal Mine Disaster. It depicts a real-life incident that took place in 1929 at the Kinloch Mine in Parnassus, Pennsylvania. Basically a piece of machinery sparked and caused an explosion killing 52 coal miners and then entombing 200 more before they were rescued. The connection to the Department of the Interior is our former Bureau of Mines. The Bureau had been created in 1910 to insure safer mining conditions and promote the safer use of minerals overall. But here's the thing about these dioramas -- it's not good enough to just have a mine and then take some artistic license in telling the story. No, the big takeaway on these dioramas is that they blow you away with the attention to detail. The preparators in Morristown are striving for absolute, like almost OCD, authenticity. They extensively researched the equipment that would have been used, they secured press photographs from the scene of the accident site, they tracked down somebody at the Bureau of Mines to get the exact font that would be replicated on the train car that was in the background of that scene, they even got the Pennsylvania State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation to send -- and that's what that little square is there -- a swatch of fabric so that the preparators would know what color and texture to make the police uniform. For real. So another example: Boulder Dam, aka Hoover Dam. This is a pretty faithful representation. The Bureau of Reclamation sent the diorama designers six photos in February of 1936, showing this cable way, and by request they showed close-ups of the cable, the mechanism, the control house, the anchors, which I mean honestly once you get to that size are probably like this big. In addition they have geologists make a side trip out to the dam, one of the Reclamation geologists, to kind of make some color sketches, particularly noting the colors of the rocks, the sides of the canyon, the shading highlights at different times a day. But Ned Burns had a few follow-up questions on accuracy of the colors and in the letter back out to Carl Russell, who's still his boss, he asked for someone else to go out and take a look. He says, quote, "perhaps you might think me rather fussy on this point but past experience in making museum exhibits has taught me to be very careful with such details. The public loss to criticize, so if you get the opinion of an artist, it would be safer." So here's one more example, the USGS diorama on stream gauging. It shows an activity that's very commonplace today, a typical river measurement station, and the scene is played out on streams and rivers all across the country. But USGS provided reference photos so this could be based not on just any river, but a particular one -- the flow of the Hackensack. There's a lot of correspondence about this in the file about getting the wording on the signage -- that little blue square there on the tower -- just right and even verifying that the look of the license plate on the car was accurate. The preparators even concede -- it's the first time they do it in any of our dioramas -- is that they actually let USGS help them in building that cable car. Because it's front and center and very close to the viewer, they knew it would be a focal point and they wanted to get it just right. It's pretty amazing when you think about all the coordination -- you're in a pre-email age and trying to get all of this information and images to have this inform their process. Well, for the better part of 1936, this team is madly working away on dioramas up at Morristown. But then there's a decision made to close the lab and move operations closer to Interior headquarters where all the various projects for the division are being managed. And it turns out that there's space available in very close proximity and by autumn they have moved to Ford's Theatre. Ford's Theatre! And some staff get absorbed at Fort Hunt, as well. In fact here's a photo of a luncheon that they're having at the Ford's Theater space to show off some of Interior Museum's dioramas, that have already been completed but obviously not in place in our wing yet. By November of 1936 with some of the big pieces already finished and even more underway, the museum planners move on to the next phase, with even more detailed case designs and specifications, and we have those very dog-eared blueprints. That PWA funding, that hundred thousand dollars was only for a year and it didn't include any installation cost, so somehow, I haven't figured this out yet, but they secure an additional about, a little over fifty thousand dollars more. Employees begin moving into this building here in the spring of 1937. And the museum team, now based at Ford's Theatre, gets the go-ahead to start moving the dioramas over in the museum wing in June of 1937. So all is on track for the final build-out and an opening at the end of the year but then that's when the delays kick in. There's a contractor strike at the building that prevents painting and finishing work from getting done in the Museum wing and there's some difficulties with an exhibit case manufacturer -- I mean this could be 2018, not 1938. Well all told that schedule gets pushed back by about three months, but finally, finally in March of 1938, three years since the planning committee first formed, the Interior Museum is finally ready to open. And invitations go out to folks internally obviously, but also to the press and to several others, among them Senators, Congressmen. The list is kind interesting actually, the director of the American Association of Museums, the Secretary of the Smithsonian, the President of National Geographic Society the head of the Forest Service, Commerce, Agriculture, the director of the National Zoo, the directors of the National Gallery and the Corcoran, curators at the Army Medical Museum and the American Red Cross Museum. The soft opening is on a Tuesday, go figure, at 8 p.m. March 8th and the public grand opening is on Wednesday March 9th, then there are special hours on both Saturday and Sunday of that week from 1 to 4:30. Highlighted in all of the invitations and press materials are "striking exhibits" showing "manifold activities" of the bureaus and offices. The publicity touts nearly 8,000 square feet showcasing 95 exhibit units, a thousand objects, nearly 500 photographs, 250 maps and charts, 100 models, 12 large wall maps, and countless text panels. The museum's brochure quickly has to get reprinted on the order of 10,000 more, and gets transformed from a single sheet to the trifold that you see here. It has numerous photos and really breathless text. And my favorite part, and where I got the title for this talk, is "here is history made vivid and unfolded before the eye, a story told in a book whose pages are display cases, whose text and illustrations are interpreted through scientific specimens, choice works of art and artifacts." And the response to the museum is fabulous, really. In the months after the opening visitation tops 10,000 -- 10,000! -- a month. Admission is free, it remains open on Saturdays, and understandably visitors are really enthralled with those dioramas and they get called out again and again. And visitor comments -- there are tons of letters written and notes left behind by people enthusing about their experience, and otherwise just offering general feedback. One person writes that they're very grateful to the museum for showing them "just how much I don't know." Visitors repeatedly cite their interest particularly in the American Indian materials, many comment on how pleasing the space is and how relaxed the subdued lighting makes things -- clearly they didn't go with the orange walls. Much of the correspondence is along the lines of the one on the right side of this slide, from a visitor who gets back to his lodging at the Hay-Adams Hotels -- its air conditioned, you know, it says so right on the stationary -- and feels compelled to whip out that hotel stationery and write how a visit to the museum, quote, "added considerably to the enjoyment of my time in DC." And then this is my particular favorite, it's a doozy from a college student, Miss Eleanor Shlifer. I love this one. So because it's kind of hard to read her handwriting I'm gonna read it for you in its entirety. "Dear Sirs, I just wanted to tell you that this is one of the best museums and interesting places in Washington as far as I'm concerned. You go around trying to love your country by looking at the dusty, century-old stuff at the Smithsonian, gazing at miles and miles of white marble done in some bastard Greek style and meditating before millions of busts and monuments to Washington et al. But this is the real living thing. And I bet most tourists don't even know it's here. This is worth coming all the way from Chicago." Mic drop, right? So high praise right this place resonates with the masses. Visitor logs show that people are visiting from every state in the nation and from what I think is a surprising number of foreign countries, for this time period, too. So the museum is hitting on all cylinders and it's very much that, quote, "new instrument in the field of government public relations" that it is intended to be. A year later the crowds are still thriving. An April 1st 1939, so almost a year exactly after we opened, oversight of the museum is transferred from the National Park Service's Museum Division directly to the Ssecretary's Office and J. Paul Hudson, who had served a year as an interim curator, moves on with that operational transition, and a guy named Harry Raul comes on as curator, and he'll stay until the 1950s. So our files, you know, it's his name that dominates the correspondence and the archival records for this next period in the museum's history. And one of the first issues that Raul has to contend with is the very real problem of keeping things fresh and current. It's one thing to get the museum up and running, to keep it current it's no mean feat. It's 8,000 square feet of exhibits and in his report to the Secretary for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1939 -- we had different fiscal years back then -- he writes, "the museum is growing in influence, in its services, and also in its needs. Natural changes and improvements continually should be expected. No Museum should be allowed to become stagnant. A petrified forest is a national asset -- a petrified museum is not." So how do they update stuff? They have sunk a lot of time and resources already into all of these hand-drawn labels, like this one about petroleum reserves. So one really low-tech way that they updated things was by just re-lettering inserts and gluing them over the top like this, updated in 1947. Pretty clever, right? You don't need to go find an artist to redo the whole watercolor and pen and ink scene, you just need somebody with neat handwriting. For larger pieces however things aren't quite as easy. Remember those maps that I told you about? The Interior Musuem has a dozen what they call a mural maps, and they're about 12 feet wide and 8 feet high and each showed the holdings of a differently land-managing bureau. And as we all know, those landscapes were constantly changing. So here's the mural map as Otto Jahn painted it to show the location of approximately 30 district and land survey offices. I know this is a black-and-white photo, but the states are outlined, labeled, colored either light yellow or light green depending on whether it's public lands or non-public lands. But look what happens to this map over time. What's the first thing you notice, other than this is a color photograph? They painted over the title. They've added a different title entirely, and it's because by 1946 you no longer have the General Land Office, you have the newly formed Bureau of Land Management. Even the map legend has been updated to take out the reference to the land survey offices. And while only eight colorful vignettes appear on the original mural map, as you can see many many more have been added over the years to illustrate the growing number of activities that the bureau is engaged in. Particularly in the western states and Alaska. And most of those clusters of those vignettes are done by totally different hand, Theodora Drummond in the 50s, and includes surveyors, miners, cattle, wildlife, and even filming on a motion picture set on on public lands. In some instances this change was effected by investing just in more exhibit elements. To wit, see this gallery shot here? That's taken right as the museum is opening and you kind of notice that up high above the cases there are these niches that are empty and they notice that, too. They weren't in the scale models, they weren't in the blueprints, but there they are the build-out. So in the summer of 1939, they fill about a dozen of them by employing another uniquely 1930s exhibit technique: silhouettes. Not to digress too much, the silhouettes had been around forever and for various different cultures and in more recent times they'd enjoyed popularity as an element of shadow theater in the famous Parisian cabaret. the Chat Noir. Elaborate figures and groupings cut from sheets of zinc, somebody had to think of this, would be used almost like shadow puppets behind an illuminated screen to play out dramatic stories. Some of them were stationary to kind of represent the set, while others were on rods that you could kind of move about to show animation. Various museums like the Musee d'Orsay and the Zimmerli Museum up at Rutgers have several of these in their collections. Well, the museum world of the early to mid 1900s appropriates the concept of silhouettes as well. Indeed. Ned Burns and Louis Shellbach even say that when used properly, elements from other genres like commercial or retail or theater can be real assets for museums. And for the interior museum, the silhouettes are static displays illuminated from below and from behind by cove lighting in those niches. Technically they're not considered objects, they're considered more decorative than interpretive, and as far as we can tell they never seem to label them. But at nine to twelve feet in length, they are pretty significant additions to the gallery and they're also pretty economical. Records show that they cost about $35 a foot to manufacture, they were done in-house, so maybe 350 to 450 dollars a piece to do a silhouette, whereas the dioramas would easily run 1800 to 3800 dollars depending on how complex they were. So for the Interior Museum, we have a couple of scenes of National park lands, recreating, and enjoying wildlife on public lands. Some developed specifically for the Bureau of Mines and the US Geological Survey, and five showcasing types of Indian tribes for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Although they are super finely detailed, some even have cellophane like inserts to show water and things like that, and you can see from these photographs showing them in situ, just how much they lend kind of an impactful traumatic flair. They also decide to add a couple more dioramas as well, and these later ones were mechanized -- watch out, folks! In the sponge fishers one at the top left, a small motor powers the fish that are swimming around in the reef. In the Juneau goldmine one down at the right there's a full 24-hour cycle of light and darkness that's compressed into a two-minute cycle with lights and dimmers to show the passage of a day, the mine cars go zooming back and forth and there's other little motors that make the boats bob in the water. One final way of keeping things fresh and new was by growing the museum's collection. Secretarial gifts are added to the collection and displayed, Secretary Krug gets presented with a headdress that goes on view in the museum, as are items from territories and insular possessions. And remember Helen Gibson's collection of Indian materials? Well in 1940 in December eighty one-year-old Eunice "Frona" Colburn donates to the Interior Museum nearly 350 items just in less than half of her and her husband's personal collection. She's a well-known California journalist editor, author, with a penchant for wine tasting, epicurean delights and ethnographic materials and we are the beneficiary of half of her collection. There are truly some spectacular, very rare pieces of basketry styles in what she donates. So the upshot is that the museum one way or another continues to evolve and get tweaked under Rahl's curatorship. But it's not all smooth sailing on September 28th, 1942 Raul circulates kind of a nervous memo to two of his higher-ups, writing, "I've heard that there appears to be a possibility that the Interior Department Museum may be abolished." And these rumblings appear to be twofold -- one seems to be summing for a need for additional office and storage space for the war effort, and indeed the National Park Service has just that previous month, August 1942, relocated its offices to Chicago for the duration of the war, in part to make room for War Department staff and two, appearing to question the propriety of the museum being open at all during wartime. But Raul eloquently addresses both issues. As to the first on the office space needs, he said that museums attendance and popularity -- still getting four thousand visitors a month -- we're operating it compactly and economically, and our costs are in line and actually proportionately lower than any other US museums our size. Essentially he's saying look we're good investment and we've invested a lot into the success for our museum. As the second issue on wartime operations, Raul makes the case that this is precisely the time to be open. He cites museums in Washington and England following a policy of continuing to remain open to the public and in some cases even expanding their offerings during war. He cites the need to maintain public trust and the museum stewardship obligations in protecting the collections and the pieces from private donors like Gibson and Colburn, and he appeals to a sense of patriotism saying that the museum is, quote, "a visual and clear exposition of the very things our country stands for." And it's not just him saying this, he's got visitor comment cards to back him up. To wit, "I've been through the museum it makes me proud to be an American." Another, "this is a truly wonderful museum. We had no idea all the Department of the Interior does for the nation. And another, Mrs. Pratt from Charlottesville, Virginia: "museums as a rule collect exhibits and then display them. But this museum, it interprets!" Well history doesn't confide in us as to which of Raul's arguments was the most convincing, perhaps all of them, but the upshot is that the museum stays put. In the early 40s he installs seven more silhouettes into what were still empty niches. The themes are sheep grazing, early and modern surveying, cattle roundups, driving the Golden Spike, water transportation, activities of the USGS, a wagon train. And we know these were installed because we have reports of the installation dates and just as tellingly these very cool concept drawings and stencils and rubbings that are in our files. However, the great mystery of the day, and I challenge all of you, is where are these seven silhouettes today? We've never seen them, we've never seen photos of them, they weren't considered objects so they weren't cataloged. So if you're roaming around the mezzanine or someplace from the building and you come across seven amazing silhouettes let us know. I'm not going to get much beyond these formative and early years of the Interior Museum today, but that doesn't mean that there's not more to be told. The museum does go undergo some further updating in the 50s and the 60s and again in the mid 80s and the 90s and there are numerous thematic temporary exhibitions that change in and out with the different alcoves, but that's for another lecture. Suffice it to say our collections have grown considerably since those early days. We now steward more than eight thousand objects. Our appearances have changed considerably as well, because exhibit techniques obviously morph over time and our footprint within the building has changed considerably from that 8,000 square feet to about 750 square feet as the department's priorities have changed with various administrations. But the museum's purpose has remained the same from 1938 to 2018: to educate and to inspire the public with the Interior's ongoing work. And I think that function and that need is every bit as important today as it was when Secretary Ickes first articulated it in 1935. Well, by way of kind of starting to wrap this up, why is this all even relevant and important. I mean that besides the fact that I have totally enthralled you this afternoon? But it seriously it's healthy and very important and instructive to try to understand where we came from as our agency and as our national and world events have shaped us as an institution. All of this is important because these exhibits were created for widespread public consumption and not just for some very select narrow audience, and they were created with educating the public being first and foremost. It's important because a lot of things like old exhibit labels from 1930s usually get considered as ephemera and the grand scheme of things, you know, across any institution -- I mean how many things do you still have from even 20 or 30 years ago they don't get backed up on a thumb drive like you might do today, they don't get archived. The materials themselves, it's paper, it doesn't necessarily stand the test of time very well and they get discarded -- and yet we have them. And that means that you have a very unusual kind of wormhole to the past, it means that you can provide context and visuals that you just don't get from reading legislation or scholarly articles or newspaper accounts from this period. So that means that you get nuance, it means that sometimes you uncover a bias, it means you might uncover some uncomfortable aspects about Interior's own past, but it also means that you get to evaluate with the benefit of hindsight, and hopefully with a more enlightened approach and greater cultural sensitivities. So looking at what was assembled over three years' work to represent Interior in its first ever museum and a groundbreaking achievement for any federal agency it really is a snapshot in time. Whether you're doing an overview exhibit about Interior in 1938 or in 2018 there's probably some things that it's a no-brainer to include. For example Hoover Dam -- it likely makes the cut no matter what, right? But what about these? Take these two dioramas. I guarantee you that these two topics aren't on anybody's radar now as highlights of Interior's history but they were the bee's knees and very worthy of creating big honkin dioramas back in the day. So these are the historical nuggets that would otherwise get filtered out by the tide of history and that passage of time. The top one on the left was done for USGS and at first glance it's a big field right? So, but here is the cool thing about this, its is where I get to sort of geek out about this, where it's become kind of an artifact in its own right. It turns out it's not just any field. In 1906, the USGS began hydrologic investigations of the Roswell artesian basin in New Mexico. By 1933 there's a more comprehensive study done and when the report comes out, it reveals that this very spot is a world-class example of a rechargable artesian basin. And based on the findings, USGS then goes to the state engineers and gives them recommendations for making that aquifer more efficient and sustainable. To this day that basin remains among the most intensively farmed regions in the state, efficiently deriving its water for irrigating crops almost exclusively from the groundwater that they had discovered. And because of the timing of that report in 1933, this is what's top of mind when they go to ask USGS in 1935, "hey, what do you want as a diorama for your Bureau?"  This field for the diorama on the lower right, that's Tarpon Springs, Florida, sponge fishing. And if you didn't wonder when I showed you that one before, like what the heck does that have to do with Interior? Here's your chance. At first blush you're just like kind of cool with the motorized fish and the diving bell guy but why? And again context is key here -- this diorama gets added to the museum in September 1940. The year before, 1939, the Bureau of Fisheries gets transferred from Commerce to Interior, and just two months before this diorama gets installed, Fisheries combines with the Bureau of Biological Survey, just come over from the Department of Agriculture to become our US Fish and Wildlife Service. Bingo! And the health and the harvesting of natural sponges was very important to Interior at that point, because of use in households and hospitals, in industry, and eventually as part of the war effort.  Finally, back to the issue of relevance, this museum's history is important because of its legacy. Ned Burns, talked about already, was really the guy behind coordinating the Interior Museum installations, and he went on to publish a seminal work in 1941. It's called the Field Manual for Museums. To this day it's still considered one of the bibles for the museum profession. It's 439 pages long, very dense, sold through the Government Printing Office for seventy cents. But to Carl Russell's goal of having a National Park Service Museum Division, Ned Burns had codified its principles and best practices. Many were lessons that he learned on the job from the museum building boom in the parks in the 1930s. And Burns' book actually cites several examples and includes images from the Interior Museum. You know, that fool minor project in Washington DC. And of course, the fact that our silhouettes and dioramas are still extant really helped to document a phase in museum design techniques that have largely gone by the wayside, but nonetheless chronicle an unparalleled level of craftsmanship. All of this is to say that these topics in this era really are ripe for further research and further discoveries. There's probably a good thesis and several good scholarly articles yet to come out of all of this. But in the immediate, I am putting finishing touches, Diana mentioned this, on an online exhibition called "Stories In Miniature," that is essentially just a deep dive on the large scale dioramas. You should find that on our Interior Museum's Google Arts and Culture portal, in the next couple of weeks that'll go live, and in even the more immediate, like in the realm of instant gratification, I have a commemorative parting gift for all of you in attendance today. I have a handout for you to create your very own mini diorama -- it's a little DIY, it's essentially a shadow box and you can switch out the scene to be one of five historical original dioramas. This is what yours will look like, tiny, so when you're feeling kind of mildly inept with your scissors and your glue stick putting this together, I hope you will have a new appreciation and will remember and silently thank all of those craftsmen and artists and preparers and curators who toiled on those original displays and created the very substantial legacy upon which the museum continues to build 80 years later. Thank you so very much for your time this afternoon. We do have birthday cake up front and we hope you'll stay for a piece. We do have time for a couple quick questions before we literally cut the cake or you can come up and talk to me afterwards. Somebody in the back, yeah? [Audience:] Will we see the dioramas again? [TB]: We are hoping for more space but I believe that, we actually had been asked about this a couple of times, we had to blow out exterior walls to get them out for asbestos abatement, and so there are not really any ways for the big ones to come back in. However, we still have all of them. Just a possibility, I suppose, that they could get reinstalled. A couple politicals have inquired about that in more recent years. They don't fit into any of the sort of open spaces around the stairwells by the grand staircase, where some had suggested that they might. It is quite deceiving because what you're seeing is kind of just the flat front but they go back what, four five feet deep. I mean they're they're huge, so. And we're actually about to move them a little bit closer. They were in off-site storage -- they will remain at least for the the near future in off-site storage, but in now a Park Service facility. Fortunately we have really great photo documentation of them, which makes this online exhibition available. You can really zoom in and see some of the details, but space issues and just the complexity of those pieces are what's at hand there. I saw another hand, yeah? [Audience question inaudible] [TB]: There were, and they had kind of impressed upon the bureaus to keep coming up with new things that started to stagnate a bit over time. But you know, there was very much the concerted effort for the opening, and then as the years went on, yes, a lot of the bureaus kind of took on that role of multiple changing temporary exhibitions showcasing whatever their projects du jour were. Sometimes there were photo exhibitions, works of art, they brought back William Henry Jackson for one more swan song. So there were several temporary shows over time. They didn't carve out specifically changing exhibition space for it, but they started to repurpose some of those galleries. I saw one more hand there? [Audience]: You mentioned politics. Unlike other museums, you're dealing with issues that are inherently political and controversial. How did they start dealing with that? [TB]: Good question, and there's a lot to sift through. The great thing is they kept all those files the bad thing is they kept all the stuff. And so there's a lot to kind of weed through, it's not necessarily organized how you would think to do so. And so that's that's one of kind of many things on my list, is kind of going back and delving a little bit deeper into those issues. It seemed that there was a pretty big consensus and congeniality. I mean there was a huge team kind of working on this and vetting things a la 1938. Clearly you speak to the-- I mean, that hasn't changed over time and it is what makes reading some of these original labels interesting. And what I was kind of getting at, to the point of kind of uncovering some biases or kind of uncomfortable truths about Interior, about our policies as a nation, particularly sort of paternalistic views, even though Indian policy was changing in the 30s that still manages to kind of creep through. And some of these earlier labels and issues of ethnicity and identity, national identity, but yeah. I think it's it's one of those questions that is a great one, but I'm not prepared to answer at least just yet, in terms of what with what research we've done so far. Let's have some cake. Thank you! 