 Hello and Good Afternoon everyone on LinkedIn! We have been deep diving into depth cameras, depth sensors, volumetric capture, active infrared dot matrix displays, the main reason for this obviously is we are looking toward the future of computer vision, robotics, drones, environmental awareness and visual intelligence. What I am using here is just the front infrared flood emitter on the Apple iPhone XS Max. This is the Microsoft Hololens, the computer vision here I wanted to showcase to you. But, real briefly what we are going to do is go through an application for the iPad Pro and the Occipital Structure Sensor that allows us to 3D map a complete environment just using your iPad and an application called Skanect Pro, lets get started! Hello again and here we go, this is Skanect Pro wirelessly streaming Nvidia 1080ti 3584 CUDA cores 10.0 over my 5G network to my iPad Pro and I haven't started recording yet but I wanted you to see this depth in color overlay via the infrared flood emitter that is an active dot matrix so lets go ahead and get started with the record function. We are going to go ahead this and I will go very very slowly over this process, you gotta go very slowly otherwise it will let you know, listen you have gone a little too quick please re-initialize your pose estimate, so I am just scanning the information right in front of me with just one of my desktop laptops setup, you can kinda see the infrared flashing into the camera, that is always a cool thing to see and it is around 30-35 FPS ok and again you can do this in an entire area in a room or even small objects so lets go ahead and press stop on that. So, you can see, I am going to keep kinda pushing this around a little bit but on this side, you can move around this model but we haven't even reconstructed or processed it yet so what we want to do now is go into the re-construct phase which we are going to run this high fidelity fusion onto, oops it looks like it is already running there, lets see what I have going on there, oh yeah, it is synchronizing the frames so just one second, it is going to initialize this, its going to synchronize all of these frames from my initial recording which is essentially SLAM right (simultaneous localization and mapping) its taking all of that information and running it through a FUSION algorithm and then its going to process that mesh and synchronize all of those frames together and correlate them. And then once we get that done we can run the reconstruct process here which we are going to go ahead and get started that is going to initialize this fusion reconstruct process of that spatiallized environmental map that we just took and that is what you can see here and we move that one model around a little bit and now we can process it even further, and this is kinda the cool part and you can take this model and you move it around many different ways but what we want to do is colorize this what we want to add 1mm colorization we are going to run that oh, looks like we have another task running, that is the finalization, lets get that started, it will finish. Finalization is done, so now we can colorize the model, and we are going to colorize that down to, lets say 1mm, 1mm, and that is started now and we should see that come back up...lets try that one more time. There we go, now we are increasing vertex resolution sorry about that, that what always happens during real time presentations I love that when you are in front of 500 people and that happens to you, always a nice feeling. But you can kinda see, it is very quick uh scan to resolution to output .fbx or .ply file again and you can continue to render this pipeline by increasing the vertices and smoothing uh you know different pixelation out and move and crop different things out but I always find this is really nice to see a full 3D volumetric capture but also you can import this right into a virtual reality scene and you can start to create environmental parameters without hiring a 3D artist. that is actually fascinating for people like me who can barely draw stick people. So, I hope you guys liked this little Skanect Pro initialization today but there was another application on here which I thought was really fascinating to show but I am going to save that for later and it was somebody named Jacob who had asked about scanning body parts for prosthetic in Africa and various other developing nations in the world and I am going to create another video just for you on that but just for today, we will keep it simple. Hope you guys loved it, Happy Thanksgiving by the way and I hope you have a wonderful weekend. 