 Use "fast" OpenCL mode for first actions Objects dock Fractal tab Select fractal formula Enable "auto-refresh" to see all changes immediately. Edit the fractal "Reset view" displays whole fractal Hold CTRL key and use mouse wheel to navigate towards mouse pointer. ..or just click on the point where you want to move the camera Use arrow keys to rotate the camera Switch to "medium" mode to see fractal colors Reduce palette size to 5 colors Try to generate random palettes Edit green color from the palette Edit brown color Switch to "full" mode to render volumetric effects Eanble fog effect Set visibility distance using mouse pointer Enable fog based on distance from fractal surface Calculate parameters for the fog Correct parameters manualy to find good looking fog Change colors of the fog Enable light #1 Place light using mouse pointer. Observe guiding lines on mouse pointer to see where the light will be placed Increase distance from indicated point where new light source will be placed. Bigger distance from indicated point will result in the light placed closer to the camera Now it is visible that vertical guiding line is much closer to the camera Click to place the light Increase visibility of the light and reduce size of it. It doesn't affect how the light illuminates the fractal. It changes only appearance of the light Re-enable auto-refresh Increase intensity of the light The light appears too big, so the size have to be reduced Main light source is too bright Intensity is reduced by half Ambient occlusion is also too bright Reduce intensity of ambient occlusion by half Add second positional light Activate "place by mouse" Click to place the light Change color to orange Increase intensity of the light to illuminate the fractal on the front Reduce fog because is too much visible Set level of the water object using "Set position by mouse" function Align rotation of water object to actual camera rotation Now there is needed to adjust length of waves It is difficult to say what length would be correct Let measure it Display measurement dock Activate "Get point by mouse pointer" Select two points to measure length of some feature of the fractal See what distance was measured Try to set similar wave length value Increase iterations for water algorithm to get better appearance Rotate the water around Z axis Find out the best parameters for wave length and amplitude Click on "New material" Change name of new material Disable color palette Change color to blue Assign new material to the water object Enable "Fresnel's equations" for more realistic appearance of light reflections Set reflectance to maximum (1.0) If scene have a lot of effects it takes some time to compile OpenCL programs. But only once Trial if shape of water waves can adapt to fractal shape. No. It looks bad in this case. So disable it. Enable "metallic surface". It makes specular reflections in the same color as fractal surface, Increase specular reflections brightness in water material. And make them narrow Enable iridescence effect to simulate oil on the water surface There is visible slight rainbow on the water Change image resolution to 16:9 format Enable High Dynamic Range to eliminate over saturation of lights Click on Update to see changes Adjust image saturation and gamma You can still correct camera position and rotation To have faster image updates change to "fast" mode Use grid option to display "golden ratio" guiding lines Go back to "full" mode Enable DOF effect Use "Set focus distance by mouse pointer" Click on the point of the image where you would like to focus the camera Correct blur radius (was too high) Enable "fog based on iteration count" Reduce image resolution because it is very slow effect Compilation of OpenCL programs takes time.... Switch to "No OpenCL" to calculate rendering statistics (only work when CPU is used) Go to statistics and see how many fractal iterations is mostly used to generate the fractal Switch back to "full" mode "Low iterations trim" will have similar value as observed number of used iterations Enable auto-refresh and increase fog opacity Still not visible... More... Now something is well visible Try more Too much Go back Let stay with this opacity value Everything looks nice in a little higher resolution Do not forget to save settings Set final image resolution Very high resolution gives very detailed images. Sometimes it need to take long time to render. Afer 40 minutes of rendering the image looks very good. You still can correct image brightness It is a time to save rendered image. You can choose different image formats and channels THANK YOU FOR WATHING! 