 This contest was hosted by NASA Glenn: Flying Car and its accommodating city. So we had to conceptually design a flying car that is emission-free, noise-free, then see if we can integrate this flying car without changing too much infrastructure. The NASA people really liked our air traffic management. Once the flying car exits its own parking garage that is only for flying cars, it has to take certain altitude roads. There are three tiers: one for intersections, one for emergency lane, and one for fast lane. It has its own specific ramp that you have to take to get to a different level in order to avoid any traffic merging. Then if you want to go fast, go to the fast lane and then come back to the intersection lane when you get close to your destination and then you roam it down to your destination. The whole point of this project is to reduce the traffic congestion on the ground, by adapting the flying vehicle. We design our traffic management in a way that cars don't have to stop at all. In our parking garage we designed you don't have to look for it, you just go in and get out. --What's really the essence here is to have something that is really inspiring for a team of students that really pushes them to give their best work, like engineers in a team. So all that is what really makes me very excited about working with teams of students. --I got a call from NASA Glenn that we got the first place. And everyone's like, "no, I want the proof, you're making that up!" So I mean everyone was very excited. We went to NASA Glenn and we presented our idea. And then the whole team had to go up there and present it. That was like a special feeling. I mean, as aerospace students, doing something for NASA is always special because NASA's like the representation of space. --At the end of the day what you will remember is not whether or not you have an award. It's the whole experience of working hard with the only objective of completing the task and proving yourself that something that you thought initially it was absolutely impossible can actually be accomplished. --Participating in that gives us a connection to the industry. And you know they'll remember my name. It's so fulfilling. It's a good learning experience, and you know, we're gonna look back like, yeah, we we did this together. And it kind of makes us feel united. I definitely think the flying car is gonna happen because NASA people actually asked me about that: do you think there's gonna be a flying car? --I think the technology is there. It's now a matter of logistics, political incentive. But I think we are ready to embrace this type of technology. Everybody's very excited about that. 