 My name’s Anthony Rowe, and I’m an associate professor in the Electrical & Computer Engineering Department at Carnegie Mellon University, and I’m also the director of the new CONIX research center. The CONIX research center is a new center that’s funded in part by the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC), as well as DARPA. The grand vision in CONIX is to take work that’s being down in cloud computing, edge computing, and network and rethink how we can have systems that work seamlessly across all three of these. To help drive the CONIX research we have three application focus areas. One is in enhanced situational awareness where the idea is that we can have one or a couple of people that are able to coordinate a large number of autonomous drones that can be flying around the city. So imagine being able to create something like Google Maps or Google Street View, only now the information would be live. Another application that we’re interested in is smart and connected communities where the idea is that we want to be able to deploy sensors across the city so that we can take all of these different little information feeds and make higher level inferences about what’s going on in the city to help manage and optimize city operations. The last application that we’re looking at is mixed-reality systems where the idea is to be able to seamlessly combine both the virtual and the physical worlds together. So what that means is people could either wear goggles where you see a virtual environment, you could have goggles where it’s more like a head’s up display where you can see digital information overlaid on the environment, or a much more simple version that you’re likely to see in your home or your businesses sooner would be holding up a tablet and being able to look through it and see annotated information on it. In the future, if these devices are responsible for important tasks like controlling autonomous vehicles or managing infrastructure in a city, they need to be able to perform even if the cloud disappears. We’ll basically have a new set of APIs and protocols that will allow application developers to much more easily push intelligence into the network. Our research is really looking 10 to 20 years into the future, but we think that some of these components and building blocks will be available, at least in early prototypes, within the next five years. 