 Welcome to Strategic Calculus. This is the first video of our lecture series. In this lecture series we will be talking about topics related to interdisciplinary research (IDR) or interdisciplinarity. So So today's exact topic is what is interdisciplinary science? Stay tuned. Karl Popper is regarded as one of the greatest philosophers of science from the 20th century His stature and personality was such that he was even lauded by Bertrand Russell. In his famous book, “Conjectures and Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge” he stated that, “We are not students of some subject matter but students of problems. And problems may cut right across the borders of any subject matter or discipline.” So he was saying actually is that all the problems that we face today does not stem from a single discipline. Consequently, it also means that solutions to problems does not revolve around a single discipline or subject matter. And precisely this is the theme of our work which we do at Strategic Calculus. The Interdisciplinary Science. Where globalization and technological advancement has paved the world towards connectivity and interconnectedness in 21st century. But it has also acted as a conduit for many complex problems that we are facing today. Right now, the world is going through a catastrophic condition in which the human enterprise is being disrupted by lock downs and social distancing. But at the same time, this technology has made possible the concepts of remote working as well as gig economy or gig revolution so to say. Contextually, if we look at this state of crisis It involves social distancing against social networking. It also involves half salaries against full salaries. It also involves work from home against full time employment. So all these facets contribute towards different disciplines to understand this problem. Hence an integrated approach is required to understand these problems that we are facing today. Take a subsequent example The increased use of social media and internet affects attention span. In order to explore this problem and to reach a sound conclusion an interdisciplinary approach is required that would involves at least two fields of inquiry. The one would be technologies and digital media communications. And the other would be psychology where we would be seeing the adverse affects. So the interdisciplinary research or interdisciplinary approach will redefine this question into the following manner. What are general trends of attention span in humans? Human Psychology From the perspective of psychology, the question goes by Why do people tend to use social media more than social interaction? How the use of internet and social media has enabled connections and interactions? Digital Technologies Which alternative is available against social media to increase the attention span? Moral Philosophy Take another example in which we would like to discuss about social inequality. Why social inequality exists in first place? Sociology How can the governments help in preventing social inequality? Political Scientists or Public Policy Social inequality is caused by unequal representation of gender roles? Gender Studies How social inequality will affect human conscience in an organizational structure? Organizational Psychology Concluding the two examples we can deduce that the original knowledge produced was within the separate disciplines that asks separate questions. Therefore, the separate knowledge produced is to an extent not applicable comprehensively or in an integrated manner. Therefore, in an interdisciplinary approach these separate disciplines need to be integrated and then these separate disciplines provides more insights to solve a particular complex problem from multiple disciplinary perspectives. Concluding this lecture, as you all know that by now interdisciplinary approach involves two or more than two disciplinary perspectives. Therefore, to understand interdisciplinary approach it is also necessary to understand the academic disciplines, what are academic disciplines, what is their origin and development. These all topics will be discussed in the next video. under the philosophy of science. And comment your questions below and I will try to read each and every comment and I will try to answer them as well Thank you so much. 