 A new series of videos called  Industry Insights where I talk   to business leaders about current affairs  and technology. You're watching Norbain TV.   Today we have Jeremy Hockham who is Managing  Director of Norbain Security Distribution.   Jeremy, why have you decided to run this series  of Industry Insights? Well, Norbain works with a   very wide range of suppliers and is in a  great position to see the trends developing   in the market. And we see this from lots of  different aspects. We see it from the view of the   end user, the integrator, and the supplier - and  this allows us to develop a very rounded picture   of the state of the industry, and we'd like  to be able to share this with our partners.   For a number of years we've used the tagline  building relationships, creating opportunities,   and providing solutions to explain what makes us  different from our competitors and these videos   are a new, exciting way which we can bring value to  our partners. Covid-19 is obviously a key concern   for everyone right now how do you think this  pandemic has changed the needs of end users and   integrators? First of all, and certainly not  restricted to our industry, it's driven a move   to making things remote and rethink the way  in which we work - whether this is facilitating   remote working for those that are usually office  based, maintaining systems without visiting sites,   or pretty much anything in between. The power and  intelligence of remote solutions has proved its   worth in a far shorter time than I would ever  believe was possible under normal circumstances.   However, where remote solutions aren't a viable  option end users have been looking to technology   to help create safe environments for their staff,  partners and customers - whether in a factory, or an   office, a school, or a shop and to keep their  businesses and organisations running. And is   this where the solutions for the new normal comes  in? Yes that's that's correct. In the early days of   the pandemic, and the situation was changing and  evolving rapidly, we gathered all the feedback and   market intelligence we could and this allowed us to  understand the issues that end users were facing,   how this in turn affected the integrators that  service them, and finally what technologies our   suppliers could provide that help meet these  changing needs. We then worked with all of   these groups, allowing us to gather together a  wide range of products to help meet the needs   of the market. We wanted to produce information  and options in a clear easy to understand format   which could evolve as new solutions were  developed. Jeremy, what exactly are these solutions?   There are many solutions available from a range  of manufacturers, but they broadly fall into   three categories: contactless access control, social  distancing solutions, and thermal imaging solutions.   So, that's the here and now, but what about the  future. Well, unfortunately Covid-19 is going   to be here for us for quite some time so it's now  about recognising where and how technology can   help us all go about our daily lives as safely  as possible. Fortunately, these technologies can   also be adapted as the situation develops and  can be used for a variety of other applications   both now and in the future. So, a business that  invests in occupancy control solution, for example,   we'll be able to use this to manage  customers and operations on an ongoing basis.   This has great benefits for marketing,  health and safety, store management and so on.   And there can't be any doubt that remote solutions  will continue to go from strength to strength,   customers are increasingly recognising  the benefits of this technology.   For example, reduced visits to site which saves  time and money for all involved. And Jeremy, do   you have any final thoughts for our viewers? Yes,  well I mean Covid-19 has brought about rapid   change in the way we live our lives and the way  in which we run our businesses. All change brings   opportunities so long as we embrace it and, through  this series of Industry Insights, we hope to share   experiences, problems and solutions to help you  embrace this change, help you serve your customers,   and help your businesses and organisations through  these uncertain times. Jeremy Hockham, thank you.   Thank you for watching. Clear insight there from  an experienced leader in the security industry   with an understanding of the need to help others  through the opportunity for advanced technology.   Thanks for watching and please do remember to  like and subscribe and hit that all important   notification button so you'll be aware of when  the next videos are available. See you soon. 