 [Music] Let's go to mahaa's house. Breaking news: the novel corona virus infection is getting spread worldwide so lockdown is declared from today stay home and stay safe wear mask and maintain social distance Oh no! the novel coronavirus is shaking the entire world. we humans can overcome this pandemic with unity in social distanced mode. So I will start using mask and maintain social distance every time when I meet a person or going to a public place. I will wash my hands with soap or hand wash for at least 20 seconds if I don't have it ready, I will sanitize my hands frequently. She is doing breathing exercises regularly and following all necessary safety precautions. She is confident that we can overcome this pandemic. I want some groceries and household things. I cannot go out to buy, so let me order the required things in online shopping sites. I will have some healthy food and drink plenty of water to stay energetic throughout the day. Let me track the groceries and household things which I have ordered. Thank god! it's arriving around 5 p.m [Music] I need to go safe to deliver this parcel by wearing helmet and mask because my life is important for my family. Hello ma'am here is your parcel, thank you for shopping with us! Oh that's great! thank you for your service! I will keep it aside for some time, later I will open it. Now, let me wash my hands with soap. Also I will wash my mask. Hence the coronavirus cannot attack me. [Music] If we all do the same practices which mahaa did, we can overcome this pandemic very easily. Please maintain social distance, wear mask, wash hands or use sanitizers. Please keep yourself away from public places like shops or malls. We can make our world corona free by unity. On the other hand, nikhil is hearing the same news and not taking this a serious one. Let's go to nikhil's house and see about his reaction after hearing the news. Breaking news: the novel coronavirus infection is getting spread worldwide, so lockdown is declared from today, stay home and stay safe, wear mask and maintain social distance. Hi all! I am not afraid of corona, I want my freedom and I will continue my routine enjoyment. Look nikhil is with his friends. One of his friends is having cough. But they ignored it. So, he is highly in contact with the infected person. This increases his probability of getting infected by corona. Nikhil is in his friend's birthday party. He is dancing and enjoying. In the middle he gets cough, cold and mild fever. But he ignores it and enjoys till the end of the party. At night, his fever got increased, so he plans to visit the hospital. The doctor gets nikhil's samples and performing covid19 test. Hi nikhil, I have given the samples for some additional tests. You can get the results by today evening. Meanwhile, please wear masks and isolate you from others. Until then we will allocate a room for you in the hospital. Nikhil is tested corona positive and he is undergoing treatment. We hope that he will be recovered soon. Thank you so much doctor, now I feel very sorry for not undergoing all the safety precautions. I regret for it. Hereafter, I will stay safe and maintain social distance. Thank you once again. You are welcome nikhil. Please don't forget to take your medicines timely. Stay home and stay safe. [Music] Now nikhil also understood the seriousness of this pandemic. So it's the responsibility of every one of us to be safe and maintain social distancing. "Prevention is better than cure." We will wash our hands frequently, wear mask whenever we step out in order to fight against the widespread of novel coronavirus. I request you all to stay safe with unity in hearts and social distancing in the physical world. Thank you for wearing masks and using hand sanitizers. [Music] 