 Hello, Bonjour, Hola, Namaste! Thank you everyone for joining on the webinar. I'm really glad that all of you could make it to the webinar. Today, our focus of the webinar is going to be the impact of environment on the COVID 19 spread and how we can use technology to mitigate the spread of COVID 19. Along with that, of course the presenter is also going to share in depth about OIZOM, it's offering, solutions and various applications that we work upon. I would like to take this opportunity to introduce my colleague Ayyan Karmakar, who comes from a core environmental domain to share in depth about the webinar and take this forward. Over to you Ayyan. Thank You Jainam, hello everyone, welcome to today's webinar. I am the presenter today. My name is Ayyan Karmakar and thank you for the introduction. I do come from a core environmental engineering background. So today's webinar is focused upon sensor based monitoring and how this technology can be used in mitigating the spread of COVID-19. Just a couple of instructions before we begin with our today's proceedings, for any questions feel free to write them down in the chat box. So let's begin with a little intro about OIZOM. I know most of our audience today are our allies and we have known each other for quite some time, we have done some business together, however, for the ones who are joining with us for the first time I wish to spare a few minutes to make them aware about our products and solutions. So what is the OIZOM. You see OIZOM is an Environmental IoT company offering data-driven environmental solutions for better decision making. Using our sensor based hardware we monitor various environmental parameters related to air quality, noise, odour, weather, and radiation. We have a global presence in across 10 countries like India, UK, Netherlands, Australia and South America. Our vision is to empower industries with data-driven solutions for better decision making while keeping environment at our core and we aim to implement our Environmental IoT solutions to 50 major cities by 2020 We are an ISO 9001 and 14001 certified company, we are the part of the MAKE IN INDIA campaign as our products are manufactured at our Ahmedabad facility in Gujarat and our products are certified by CE, FCC, ROHS, PTCRB and SASO So, the question that comes up is why are we concerned about environment and air quality. Well as a shocking fact, pollution is the fifth largest killer responsible for more than 4.2 million deaths worldwide, of course this data is the pre COVID 19 era but coming back to the air pollution you know 1.2 million deaths happen in India itself where 9 out of 10 people breathe polluted air which reduces four years from their lifespan well you won't believe but air pollution kills three times more people, more than even AIDS TB and malaria combined so now my question is what is stopping us to get deeper into this problem and solve it? I would say data, yes data is the key to understand any complex problem and today there is a huge data vaccume when it comes to environmental data because present solutions may be expensive, complicated and little labor-intensive So we developed a simple, cost effective and highly scalable solution for environmental data monitoring and analytics. The system is capable to monitor more than 30 different parameters and the data is transmitted to our data analytics platform. These 30 parameters are mainly segmented into dust, gases, odourants, noise ,radiation and weather. Now the data platform has features like actionable alerts, insightful reports and predictive analytics. These alerts can also be integrated to automate various industrial systems. Further this data can be published on an LED display, TV or a web platform. Now our sensor based CAAQMS can measure more than 30 parameters which include dust particulates like PM 1, 2.5, 10 and 100, gases like SOx, NOx, carbon monoxide, oxygen, ozone, carbon dioxide ,some odorants like hydrogen sulfide, ammonia chlorine, formaldehyde, volatile organic compounds and mercaptans, some weather parameters like wind speed, wind direction, rainfall, fog, light intensity temperature, humidity, pressure, the noise levels and radiations like ultraviolet, infrared and so on. Now most of the gas sensors work on the principle of electro chemical sensing, you see electro chemical sensors, they work by reacting to the target gas generating an electrical output which varies with the amount of target gas, few gaseous parameters work on the principle of NDIR that is non-dispersive infrared where each constituent gas is a sample and will absorb some infrared at a particular frequency. So most odourants are measured using the PID sensor where a Photo ionization detector is used to detect the positive and negative ions and the dust particulates are measured using laser scattering principle. Also our device is communication agnostic. So apart from GSM, ethernet, wifi, which most of the devices are connected to, our device can also communicate using modbus, LoRa and NBIoT protocols I will just show you a short video which is aimed to get a better clarity Here is a state of the art environmental monitoring solution by OIZOM Its a compact, ultra low powered system which can work fully on solar power It works continuously and sends various environmental data related to air pollution, odour, weather, noise and radiation. It's patent pending e-breathing technology makes it highly accurate compared to industry standards. It can do complete gas analysis by monitoring pollutants like carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, suphides, ozone, ammonia hydrocarbons and many more It counts every single particle present in the air sample using a highly accurate laser beam It is capable of monitoring particulates of various sizes ranging from one micron to 100 microns A downward facing class one noise sensor is ideally positioned to capture environmental noise up to 140 decibels from various sources As you can observe, the top mounted pyranometer does solar radiation analysis by diffracting the light rays into UV IR and visible light spectrum Most of the pollutants are invisible but through systematic data collection they can be made visible OIZOM is committed to decipher hyperlocal environmental data and redefine natural resources which are highly essential for our existence on earth so what sets us apart and puts us ahead in the market you may ask you see our products are empowered with salient features like real-time data transfer an all weatherproof enclosure with IP 63 certification, theft resistant, tamper or vandalism proof, fully compatible with the Solar power and it has more than eight different modes of communication, also with the battery backup which lasts up to 72 hours Now, our flagship products are ambient air pollution monitoring system that is the POLLUDRONE, the ambient odour analyzer that's ODOSENSE, ambient dust monitor the DUSTROID and automatic weather station that's WEATHERCOM. Now all these flagship products are connected to our OIZOM IoT data platform and this data is available in the form of data visualisation, analytics and environmental modelling using software platforms. So, in a span of just four years we are present in more than 300 locations monitoring the data that affects over 10 million people in around 10 global cities and across 10 countries. You know, we are promoting six types of solutions using all the hardware and software products that we explained. We have implemented solutions for several applications but at the moment we are primarily promoting these six solutions, three are in the urban category which are related to smart city and campus, airports and in Road Safety whereas three are in the industrial category which are related to dust suppression, solid waste and waste water treatment. Now our partner first approach makes the application either B to B to B or B to B to G So now that I've shared a little bit above about OIZOM,I mean, let's address the elephant in the room yes we're talking about the deadly coronavirus By now I'm sure we have a pretty fair idea about what we were trying to tell you about the sensor based technology for monitoring the environmental condition. So when it comes to monitoring air pollution, in the current scenario there has been an interesting observation regarding the COVID 19 spread. So before proceeding to the correlations let us understand what we know so far about this deadly virus. We have all been following this news related to COVID 19 and how it has impacted our daily lives, be it the mortality rate, the lack of testing or the effects of the lockdown on the economy, we are all well informed about these various sources. Not all is gloomy you know when it comes to the after-effects of this pandemic. These are few positives that I would like to showcase which have surfaced during these hard times A noticeable impact in the air pollution has been observed by scientists across the world. Moreover, as we mentioned in the introductory slides you may recall the number of people dying due to the poor air quality you know as a blessing in disguise the COVID-19containment strategies which involve travel pans and mass gatherings now these resulted in the reduction of air pollution eventually reducing those number of deaths. For example scientists have found out that China alone has found to save more than 77,000 lives as a result of this phenomenon. So just to give you a little idea about the size of the corona virus and particulate matter you see the size is around 0.1 microns which is way less than the detection level of particulate matters in the form of say PM 1 or 2.5 or 10. So this indicates that the virus can easily penetrate through the mask that are used to contain PM 2.5. Now, just imagine imagine if the corona virus would have been airborne or what kind of catastrophic damage it could have created well just hold your imagination for some time before you come to any judgment, let us discuss certain findings of this virus you see the COVID 19 spreads mainly by droplets produced as a result of coughing or sneezing of a COVID 19 infected person. Now this happens in two ways, one is a direct close contact and another is an indirect contact and you know the incubation period is somewhere between 1 to 14 days for some people  with infection but without any serious symptoms can also spread the disease. We also know that the prevention techniques which we talked about like social distancing and ensuring that we take care of the hygiene and the statistics show a very concerning picture the mortality rate is quite high as say around 10% at the world level or even if you talk about India it's around 3 % and the most affected country so far has been the u.s. when it comes to the cases concerned Today, the world has seen more than 4 million cases with around 3 lakh deaths you see all I'm trying to say is that we are in a grave situation. Now they're having some of the findings when a very famous professor Leonardo Setti from the University of Bologna he has come up with a correlation between the PM SARS and how the clusters have found out the outdoor PM correlation with the virus. Another such study at Harvard University has found out and they stated that you know if Manhattan had lowered its average particle at matter level by just one unit that's one microgram per cubic meter over the past 20 years, so they have found a correlation and they found out that there would be 248 deaths lower than what it is right now. Here, you know, there's a documentary which shows how some of the organizations are working. You see this is from NHK Japan where they're trying to identify with laser beams in high sensitivity camera and see the spread of these droplets when a person is talking coughing of breathing, so this is what they have found out with micro droplets, so there are some small and light particles which keep on drifting through the air even when you talk even when you sneeze or even when you cough or you're in a closed confined area and they have taken this study to a next level where they have contained around ten people in a small room and they've come up with some simulations if you see that there's a timer on the left corner of the screen where they're trying to say how much time it takes for lighter particles to you know stay in the air as well as the heavier particles which are say more than suppose 10 microns or 100 microns to fall off, so if you see that as the particles that are falling off and you see related with the seconds that are mentioned it's quite quick whereas there are some lighter particles which stay in the air for an indefinite period and this can sway away from say you know ventilation through opening up the windows and all such methods so this is kind of the simulation which is which is talking about with what the droplets are and how the spread can be inside a confined area Now, there has been study on the human expired aerosols you see those human experts aerosols are in the form of droplets that have resulted from human activities like you know coughing breathing or even talking as I just mentioned. So there have been some studies which have suggested that such aerosols are found in hospitals where the COVID- 19 patients are admitted Now these aerosols remain on surfaces for hours before they finally fall on the floor. However such aerosols are heavier and take date/time to deposit on the floor. Particles of diameter of say 1 to 3 microns were found to be suspended for almost indefinitely as you can recall in the simulations the ones they were staying on the top or in the air they were lighter particles whereas particle size is more than 100 microns that fell off in these 10 seconds. So this slide will give you a little better idea of how when we meet the human expired aerosol and the particle matter is there a possibility of the spread on particulate matter ? so the sizes of the virus and PM 2.5 and PM 10 are on your screen and this can easily deposit or can take over the layers of those particles and then can contain on the virus spread I'll just have a quick engagement session here I'll ask you to fill up a poll so you guys can please answer the poll and let us know what you feel about this this question will  short poll when you can just select any one of the answers and we can have a quick engagement session here Yes, so now, there are some correlations which have established between the long term exposure and the mortality rates in the United States we see how Harvard University as I was explaining earlier they saw that an increase in the PM 2.5 values by one microgram per cubic meter led 15 percent increase in deaths and we just discussed the death rate it's simple mathematics you know to gauge what would it reflect. Similarly Italian scientists have found out that correlations between high mortality rates and the pollution hotspots, they've considered it to be a cofactor whereas some Italian scientists have correlated the particulate matter in the 10 micron size. Another study in London says that you know exposure to nitrogen dioxide and ozone for long term due to the vehicular pollution, they have created a persistent inflammatory damage and this increases the risk of the infection because you know the virus attacks your respiratory tract. So now, just you know, what do we understand from all this that there is a clear evidence to back the fact that the virus can be spread by particulate matters in fact these correlations have been identified with see more stress on identifying pollution hotspots. Also you know we can connect the data with the health data and historic data of how people have been exposed to these high polluting factors. So now, I will just ask you to just go back a few minutes recall what I told you to hold your imagination and request you to continue with all imagination but this time include all these facts and just try to imagine if the virus can be spread in the air via this particulate matter how much you know the event can be catastrophic S o there are a lot of research articles which claim all these you know the findings may be preliminary but definitely leaves us the question of its detrimental impact now all this said you may ask you know how can we track or identify these hot spots, is there a mechanism which helps us take preventive action? to answer that I would seek your prime attention for the next few minutes. Now at this moment, I would also request you to drop your questions and queries wherever you find out you're not able to get the fact, we will be happy to answer use the chat box. So moving on to the next slide which is the prime one in this webinar. you see this is this is the offerings of the environmental AI. So the AI is the street by street pollution mapping and source detection platform for the cities. Now a map is always a very good medium to determine a region specific spread of any matter be it the air pollution or the virus. So here you've combined the data of the detected cases of the COVID 19 and superimposed it over a pollution heat map. Now this been further correlated with the up wind and the downwind data which helps us understand the possible spread over the specific region in this case a hot spot for a city we have these maps across that we have identified these hot spots based on the detected cases what we're trying to correlate is identifying those hot spots where the pollution is high in terms of let's say particulate matter 2.5 or 10. Now let me give you a little brief on how we use this technology when it comes to the air monitoring network. T he Environmental AI is a street by street pollution mapping as I was just mentioning and the source detection platform for cities. Now in this area we try to correlate data from different sources from source apportionment studies where you know they take the historical data unlike that this this map will give you a real-time data monitoring and every hour you can have a sense of what is going around, so if you see the picture there are some data from the fire they are some data from construction activities there are some data from the industries so all these can be mapped in a 100 by 100 resolution which can then give an actionable insight for the authorities or the stakeholders to take actions upon so this makes the whole process of understanding the hot spots and then identifying and then eventually take actions very efficient. So this is what Environmental AI is all about. Feel free to ask questions about it, we'll be more than happy to discuss more about this platform separately. So, all this is possible then there is a robust network to monitor the pollutants so let me walk you through with some of our product offerings which will ensure the same. Now this is POLLUDRONE which has the capability of measuring particulate matter that is PM 10 and 2.5, also other parameters like carbon monoxide, NO NO2, SO2 and Ozone, they are also measured in this pollution. In addition to this there is light intensity noise and weather parameters and let's quickly have a different look of the versions that we offer with this and also understand how this POLLUDRONE works. So, here are certain variations that we provide where lite is the basic version where PM 2.5,10, temperature humidity these are all measured in this along with carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide gases and this is recommended mostly for the general research purposes. Now the smart version includes all the AQI measuring gases concerning the ambient air quality and it's recommended for extensive purposes like city monitoring but as the pro version includes parameters related to critical applications like PM 1 and H2S and is suggested for uses in the critical applications. Unlike others we have a holistic solution where we also offer options and accessories in terms of wind speed direction, rainfall So that gives a very holistic view of any city or any campus that we are trying to measure along with the pollution data as well as these meteorological data. Today you know smart city has become one of the core areas of urban development. So OIZOM's POLLUDRONE has been monitoring data of almost 11 such smart cities besides this the POLLUDRONE has also been used for monitoring data of campuses to improve the overall quality of the air the residents breathe. Some critical applications like roadside and tunnel monitoring have also surfaced with the availability of such low cost pollution monitors. Now, even airports have had initiatives for monitoring emissions by airplanes and their effects on the travellers Another such product is DUSTROID. You know ,we all often see these dust laden activities going around us especially in a country like India where you know dust is a very pertinent issue, so activities such as mining and construction lead to spike in the concentration of particulates in the air so OIZOM's ambient dust profiler measures these concentration and works on active sampling method using a highly accurate laser beam. Also for the measurement of particulate matter we dehumidify the sample to nullify the effect on humidity on measurement So, as POLLUDRONE, we also have variants in DUSTROID, so the pro version is specifically designed for highly critical applications like industries - mining and construction whereas the light version is ideal for urban monitoring, others like the POLLDURONE and all our offerings, this is also really holistic product where wind speed and wind direction helps you understand the flow of the air and you can you know use it for modeling using some software platforms Theshold limits can be set for construction and mining activities and DUSTROID becomes instrumental in governing such data based decisions. Now apart from known sources in construction and mines there are quarries and seaports which are also prone to heavy dust laden activities. So data gathered from DUSTROID can help automate mist cannon and which is used for dust suppression. Even for sea ports, timely action can be taken by the authorities to curb the dust influenced by loading and loading and other harbour activities. So all said we have now understood that okay there is there's a map which can help us understand identify these hot spots, there are the monitoring network using these sensor based air systems which can help you you know understand the pollution levels across a particular city. So how do we make sense of all this? So it gives me means pleasure right now guys to share with you that we are already developing an index that we've been working for quite some time. So, including the holistic view we have come up with an index which provides actionable insights to the stakeholders. Despite Corona being or non Airborne spread we may say it's Airborne effects to particulate needs to be quantified at some point, so this is the Airborne COVID spread index which we are trying to work upon which includes a particulate matter concentration, the wind speed and direction, the detected cases in a specific region that we're talking about and the historical air pollution data which if you can relate to the earlier findings from the Scientist which they've found that longterm exposure can be a very very key factor to this. But we are also open to collaborate with concerned people and research bodies so we can help and we can you know make this whole index very useful for the stakeholders to take any any actions based on this. This is another section that we are talking about. We spoke about how you know air is being a concern of it let me also take some time to focus upon how you know water systems are also being affected. So there are certain studies that have come up they've emerged. The CPCB, the governing body in India has also cautioned the operation and maintenance workers in the sewage treatment plants that you know there are some traces that are found in the sewage systems and in the Paris water body they have been they found some minuscule traces in the non potable water, so we are also finding, there are some findings in the water systems maybe not even the pure or the drinking water systems but also and in the ones which are for non-potable uses, they are finding these traces which can also be you know which are alerting us at certain levels So the municipal wastewater can be an indication from the COVID spread. Now as we find traces of the virus in the sewer system it becomes a need to identify any asymptomatic patients in the region. So identifying such hot spots based on the data of virus trace and useful to increase these testing frequency region wise. So I will just take a quick poll here and I'd like to you to answer this poll to have an understanding of whether you knew about these findings or not and while we talk about the sewer systems and the treatment plants you know let me also showcase some solution where we are working upon in the water systems. I will just give a few seconds for you to finish the poll yeah so this is something that we have worked about where if you see closely in the map the the corona virus spread can be identified using the hotspot which I was just trying to tell you and then we identified these hotspots based on that and we can alert the medical system and the workers there to increase the frequency of testing there, so this this can be a very robust method to help the workers in this So as I was saying since we are actively working in the water and the waste water system this is one product offering that we have which is ODOSENSE. We do seldom smell odours in our surrounding and we failed to trace its sources and majorly you know we tend to ignore that and move on with our lives and in the process we fail to understand the gravity of the situation. So our Odour monitoring solution ODOSENSE help tracks harmful gases which are toxic and create an uncomfortable surrounding. You know process improvements have also surfaced as a novel application while quantifying such odourful gases Just like our other offerings we also have bifurcated these variants so with the light version measuring gases such as ammonia hydrogen sulphide is used and this is well suited for applications pertaining to wastewater treatment plants While solid waste landfills may be equipped the smart version and the most advanced version that is PRO which also measures formaldehyde and chlorine is used for industrial applications. Again, this is also very holistic view that we believe in and we offer measuring wind speed and direction to assist for source tracking of these odours. A major source that we find is from the landfills. So if I can just ask you to relate to when you are crossing any solid waste dump yard and we are pushed to this discomfort for some seconds because we smell several kind of odour you know also some underperforming sewage treatment plants and effluent plants they tend to release unwanted odors in the air leading to harmful atmospheric conditions for the residents nearby. So this when combined with the industrial odours form a dangerous combination even sometimes leading to fatality and Odour monitoring in these cases proved to be an excellent assessment and helps in taking corrective actions So we have spoken about the impacts of coronavirus and you know this has been a hot topic these days and obviously understandable because of the short or the long term impacts this has had but this has also led to forget some of the major issues which are we have been concerned globally and amongst them is climate change this is a statement made by the Secretary General of the United Nations which says that a worse enemy still prevails and the efforts to curtail that need not be compromised at any given time and climate change is a bigger threat than coronavirus. You see the evidence has affected millions and it will continue to do so unless we take some timely and necessary actions. Now as we already have the capability to monitor the greenhouse gases like methane and carbon dioxide which are responsible for the global warming. In addition to this we also offer monitors to detect and possibly allow any natural disasters. So our solution offering which is Weathercom which is a weather monitoring solution becomes a crucial aspect to avoid any natural hazards and untimely weather calamities. The plug-and-play weather monitoring solution becomes an ideal choice for comprehensive meteorological monitoring due to its robust fit, its solar compatibility and advanced analytics. As with our offerings we have bifurcated Weathercom, the smart variant is specially designed for agricultural monitoring where we also measure soil humidity along with rainfall and this not only helps the efficient farming but also triggers database signal for smart irrigation. For safety applications like road safety which includes visibility, the pro version turns out to be a ideal solution. data from the WEATHERCOM will be helpful to take preventive actions during calamities as well as forecasting events. Now along with precision agriculture, it will help in taking data-driven decisions to save the crops. Also visibility becomes a key these days so we are talking about agriculture and then we are also talking about the road safety so if you can just recall the list where we talked about the number of the factors which caused deaths the accidents and the road accidents these rank sixth in the list which caused the death. So setting up some preventive actions like dynamic speed limits or cautioning fellow drivers all that can be done using the WEATHERCOM's data. So far we spoke about our offerings in terms of the hardware capabilities this is the database platform which we have build in-house and it's fully featured. In addition to a standard dashboard view the cloud-based application, terminal which we have a custom name for, is loaded with modules like analytics, automated reports, cluster view, smart notification, heat maps, widgets and so on. Now analytics can be performed by three different approaches like parameter comparison where we can correlate between parameters like let's say temperature, humidity and particulate matter. We can also compare the various devices like if there's a smart city and you have deployed 50 devices and you want to correlate between different zones that is possible and also we can develop a pollution rose which will help you understand and get better sense of the data. They have smart notifications the SMS and push notifications can be generated using threshold set by the customer. Automated reports where the system generates scheduled reports on daily, weekly and monthly basis. Now these reports are as per the regulatory standards. There are some environmental widgets where an iframe based widget can be integrated in any web platform to publish the data on a website or any portal and we can also generate a pollution heat map which you might you guys must have understood by now, in our previous slides, when you have certain number of devices in a fixed area we have the capability to generate these pollution heat maps using the Environmental AI. Now in case if the end user doesn't want the terminal there are several options by which the data can be accessed. So OIZOM provides the APIs for integration with the customers application also data can be published on TVs or outdoor LEDs, mobile apps and so on. We can trigger the smart notifications and the automated reports based on the customers need and we are also working towards a voice activation in the future. So this data accessibility, you know using this pollution data one can conduct a research to establish any correlation between the corona virus and one can also develop any solution and application based on all these hardware and software capabilities that we have showcase right now. Now, let me just grab your attention for some more minutes we believe in this closed loop system where we give the data and monitor the output. Let me explain you with this help of this graphic. The Environmental data monitoring really helps in data gathering, visualization and further analytics. Now, in case of urban application source prediction is carried out along with generating KPIs for different action forces to work upon. Once these KPIs are measured we help measure the effect on pollution load and ultimately monitor this mitigation. I know this might be a little too much for you so let me just ease out with an example let's say the air quality data is used by the city authorities and with advanced analytics and source tracking of possible emissions, the city authorities are empowered to further generate KPIs for departments to monitor traffic, construction and fire and so on. Now these KPIs when they are measured and the effect of implementation on environment is finally monitored by the data. A similar such approach can also be done for the industrial applications where there is focus on data enabling automation in industries, so threshold based automation can be regulated which eventually mitigate the problem again with an example I will just try to help you this time so using the data and then subsequent thresholds industries can fix the frequency and direction by automating these mist cannons for dust suppression. Such efficient working of system creates a positive impact and eventually validated by our monitoring solution which ultimately you know close the loop. So I hope you guys have understood what we are trying to say with this in the urban as well as the industrial applications in case again you have any queries please drop it in our chat box. so guys we just wanted to give you a spark or a kick start and leave this all for your imagination to build solutions and applications. You know, we being a partner first company, we are committed to support with the best possible way. Now in today's August gathering, though virtual, we have some brilliant minds amongst us. I'm sure they would have already started thinking in the direction that we are trying to work towards the sustainable future, one which is prepared to tackle such untimely bio attacks and empower the mankind to rise through the ashes. I think guys we can take some questions here so before that we do have a poll to answer for you guys so I think we can generate this poll right now and give you a few seconds for you to answer this. Great guys,  I hope this this whole webinar was of some context to you and you have got some what we were trying to say you have understood and we have correlated to the facts in this scenario. I hope you guys are safe and you take care of you and your family so with this I conclude today's webinar but now I will just hand over this stage to my colleague Jainam Jainam over to you. hi Ayyan thank you so much for this detailed presentation and I would also like to have chance to thank all the attendees who were able to make it to this webinar and thank you so much for joining us. I hope this entire webinar has given you some context as Ayyan said and this is the first webinar that we have conducted at OIZOM and certainly this is the first of many I'd like to apologize if there have been any errors I believe there was a bit of a audio glitch in between but we'll try to ensure that these small small things are corrected in the future. If there are any questions that you don't probably might not have popped up right away but when you go back go back to respective work and try to think about it and there's something that might come up to you they're always available you can you can reach out to either me, Ayyan or Ankit or whoever your respective Account Manager is with the question then we'll be more than happy to assist you. I believe the presentation was it was giving an in-depth or descriptive information of how we can take actions to control and mitigate the global pandemic that's here upon all of us but also in addition to that also various avenues where OIZOM solutions can be offered. The webinar will be available to the webinar was a recorded session and it'll be shared with everyone shortly and also along with that I'd like to thank you once again and we look forward to engaging with each and every one of you. Let's try to get on a call let's try to schedule a call, a meeting. Let's type discuss and see what novel avenues we can explore together and I am certain together you know we can pass through these tough times and look forward to doing great business with everyone again, great research as well. Just as an end note I would like to say that this webinar was just limited to what we are currently offering and what you think could be and potential offering but if you have some idea that you'd like to you know discuss together then with monitoring and data acquisition sky is the limit there is so many things that we can do once we have significant data so I'd like to emphasize one thing that sky is the limit and there are several avenues that can be explored some which have not been mentioned in or something that you know you probably might think has a greater potential than all of this. I'd be happy to hear your ideas and jump on a call at mutual inconvenience. Thank you so much everyone!  