 Hey, what's up YouTube? This is Marques Colston. This video is to share some of the approach that I've taken to steer my businesses through this crisis. Hopefully it can help some of you navigate your own business ventures during this time. Tip number one, be more intentional with the value of your time. Time management has never been more important with kids at home and businesses closed. There is no more divide between home and work. What I've tried to focus on is being more efficient with my time and getting rid of excess. Prioritize the higher value tasks and practice the discipline of getting rid of the trivial tasks and responsibilities that can dominate the day. As an example, I've actually moved the start of my day up a little bit, helps me make sure I get a workout in to start the day, but also I can carve out two or three hours uninterrupted before my kids wake up and that's the time where I'm laser focused on some of the bigger projects that I need to move forward. And by the time my kids do get up and running and it's time to start their home curriculum, I've knocked out some of the major parts of my day and now I can multitask throughout the rest of the day with email communication and some of the smaller tasks. Tip number two, use this as a time of self improvement and reflection. While this crisis has chipped away at potential productivity. It's also created a unique moment in time. In a world full of constant motion, we're actually forced to sit still, So I've tried to lean into this to do some self scouting. I've taken the opportunity to read a little bit more, study new skills and strategies, and also really take the time to be present with my wife and my kids. Tip number three, identify opportunities. At the midpoint. We've seen a mad rush of companies creating solutions for the short term. As this crisis comes to an end, the transition back to normalcy won't be a quick one. Inevitably, markets and customers will behave differently. So explore opportunities for your business to thrive in that transition between lockdown and normalcy. For instance, I own a sports performance company called Kompete. And right now a lot of our competitors are making the shift to try and deliver online training content and that space has become extremely competitive. So our approach has been to try and skate to where the puck is going and not where it's at today. We've tried to evaluate what the need for our solution could look like in 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and we focus our product development efforts in that direction. Tip number four, communicate efficiently, but as needed. Companies have been forced to take their communications online. Individual team members might be trying to navigate the balance between working from home and managing their household. Try and limit the frequency of conference calls to just core communications. If team members have unpredictable work schedules, they might have to choose between jumping on that conference call or making progress on the project or the task that they're working on, but they might not have time for both. Try setting a weekly conference call and then limiting your other communication to digital only, it may give you a team members a chance to prioritize when they respond. Tip number five, leverage technology to streamline your ops. Some businesses that lean on a physical presence have been able to maintain their productivity. While others may have even seen an uptick by working virtually. As someone who works in multiple businesses at the same time, technologies like Trello and Slack have been instrumental in helping me communicate and collaborate with different teams. So use this time to evaluate technology platforms that may help you reduce some overhead without compromising on productivity. Tip number six, don't rush into competition without a differentiator. Many companies have launched digital or virtual product offerings to augment their business. It's created extreme competition for customer attention. Don't join in with a copycat mentality. If there are virtual products that make sense for your business, be sure to lean into your competitive advantages and do what you do best. Your authenticity will help you separate from the competition. 