 Well good morning everyone, I'm glad that you have  joined us for this presentation, Senior Engagement   During COVID 19, which doesn't seem to be going  away quickly. So a little bit about myself. My   name is Liz Cornish, and I am a physical  therapist I have a physical therapy degree   from Springfield college. I have over 30  years experience as a physical therapist,   working in home care, assisted living and  memory care communities throughout Connecticut.   I am also a certified Dementia Care Specialist  and I am the owner of New Season In Life. We   are senior care consultants and I started my  business a few years ago as I realized that, um,   as people were aging they weren't getting  told all the information so they get parts   of information from their doctor or from a friend  or from a family member, and nobody kind of tied   everything together. So, we help seniors and  their families kind of navigate the world of   health care and especially the worlds of assisted  living and memory care senior living communities.   So everybody's familiar with the coronavirus  and COVID 19 and the word pandemic. But   what we're realizing is that we have now  this invisible pandemic kind of going on   and for years experts have known that seniors,  especially in the United States are experiencing   high rates of social or social isolation and  loneliness. It's been a silent problem, but it has   incredible harmful effects, and they've equated it  according to US News and World Report article to   smoking 15 cigarettes a day, the damaging effects  that it can have both physically and mentally on   our seniors. And then with the nationwide spread  of COVID, forcing travel restrictions closures   of just about everything community centers are not  being able to get together with family and friends   advocates are warning that social distancing is  resulting in a second, but invisible pandemic   with our seniors. So social isolation, social  isolation is associated with an increased risk   of dementia by 50% in seniors. It leads to  core social relationships, and it gives it   increased 29% increase risk of heart  disease, and a 32% increased risk of stroke.   Loneliness was associated with  higher rates of depression,   anxiety and suicide throughout all age groups. But  increasingly, in seniors as well. And loneliness   among heart failure patients was associated with  a nearly four times increased risk of death. 68%   increased risk of hospitalization and a 57%  increased risk of emergency room department,   emergency department visits. And, obviously,  during COVID-19 we want to keep people out of   the hospitals, even if you're not going in for  any Coronavirus related events we just want to   make sure people stay out as much as possible so  we don't increase your risk of the coronavirus.   So the health benefits of adult socialization, our  socialization reduces stress, it decreases their   anxiety, seniors anxiety level leads to improved  cardiovascular health and stronger immune systems,   which allows them to fight off all  infections, including the Coronavirus.   Healthy socialization leads to longer lifespans,  increased fitness levels. Studies have shown that   adults with diverse social supports  are more likely to exercise regularly,   which as we all know exercise will lead to a  host of physical and mental benefits. It also   reduces the risk of depression. The studies are  showing that increased socialization decreases   the likelihood that seniors will experience isolation, loneliness and loneliness induced   depression. And I know working currently  working in the assisted living communities and   in the community at large as Homecare Physical  Therapist, I see seniors that are isolated   and I see the increased risk of depression  that is happening throughout our communities.   And then, improved socialization leads to  increased self esteem and sense of self worth   and the self worth component is  key because as we age we actually,   as we start into adulthood everybody wants to have  this sense of self worth, a sense of purpose. And   then as we age, many times seniors feel that their  sense of self worth or their sense of purpose   has decreased, um, and they are not able to  physically maybe do some of the things that they   were able to do before. And they feel that they're  not as useful. And what I try and tell people both   as a physical therapist and in my role as senior  care consultant, is that your self worth may have   changed from more of physical on manifestation of  self worth but that the seniors that I deal with   such incredible wisdom and such a wide breadth  of knowledge because they live way longer than   we have. And so they're self worth, they need to  realize that their self worth may not be tied to   their physical mobility and those types of things,  but they have incredible self worth and incredible   purpose and we need to be able to tap  into that purpose and that self worth.   So cognitive benefits of senior socialization,  um, it just keeps seniors stimulated mentally   sharp and intellectually engaged and helps  prevent general decline, including memory loss,   Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.  The studies are showing now that the more we stay   engaged socially, as we age, the less risk we  have of developing forms of dementia including   Alzheimer's. So, to be able to stay engaged during  this time of COVID is just vitally important.   And when we say engaged and when we're  social with activities that include   exercising groups, either at senior centers, or at  the YMCA, where they have those exercise groups,   the physical and cognitive benefits are  both increased significantly. So the   studies have shown that while exercising  individually is great for us physically   and mentally. When we do exercise in groups  the benefits just are exponentially better.   So what are some of the triggers that may lead  to social isolation and decreased engagement.   Some of those triggers are  disruption to routines, disruption   routines for everybody is important right we  typically like to get up and get our showers   and do our get our breakfast and do those things  and we typically do them at a pretty standard   on a predictable routine. And with this disruption  of with COVID, our routines have just kind of   gone out the window. And people are able to do  their go to their exercise classes or go out to   lunch with friends or engage in the way  that they have been and that disruption   to daily routines, can be a trigger for  people especially for seniors to fall into   a more depression and loneliness and isolation.  Also a sense a heightened sense of disconnection   we just are hearing so much about how we need to  stay away from everybody and can't get together   and we need to quarantine and seniors can often  feel this diminished sense of connection to people   and to the purposes that they want to live for.  They can't see their grandchildren. We can't see   and hug our families and that disconnectedness is  often a trigger for disengagement and loneliness.   And then, we all know that seniors are affected  more severely by COVID than any other age group   and this causes fear. Seniors are very worried  about getting coronavirus and rightly so,   many seniors that I work with are afraid to go out  and be social with other people. They're afraid   to talk to their families to even have people in  the same household together. And so that affects   a senior’s ability to cope with stress and can  really exacerbate their feelings of loneliness   and isolation. This increase worry. And many of us  have that worried gene anyway, so we tend to worry   about things more than we probably need to. But  with the coronavirus that really increases that   sense of worry. And then the experience of loss  and for many older people, the loss of spouse,   a friend, or a loved one becomes more frequent of  an experience. People are passing and whether it's   from coronavirus or whether it's just a natural  causes as we age that’s one thing we'll experience   more. There are other types of losses as well,  including physical capability and self reliance,   financial independence and those types of things.  And those, those losses are very very real and   people experience them and with COVID now, we're  not able to get together and discuss those losses   and talk to family members and share and cry  on each other's shoulders and kind of move,   um, move through that grieving process,  and that loss can exacerbate and can be   bigger than it needs to get and can lead  to more loneliness and isolation feelings.   With all those we have incredible valuable  opportunities. Knowing the triggers. If we are   seniors, if you are senior,r knowing those  triggers there's things that you can look out for   and be aware of. And then if you have if you are  a family member of senior that we have valuable   opportunities to be aware of those triggers and to  do things to lessen the impact of those triggers   of loneliness and isolation. So some of the  valuable opportunities that we have are that we   can check on our loved ones via either the phone  or video chat like we're doing right now. I'm   asking them how they're doing, asking what  challenges they're facing. Has the routine   change? Do you have a family member who normally  is up at seven o'clock and dress, you know, eat,   shave shower shaved and dressed and ready to go  by eight o'clock, and now they're sleeping in   till 10 o'clock in the morning. Well that's  a significant change in routine and there's   probably a reason behind that so may want to dig  into the reason that their routines have changed.   In this time. And then, how are they coping? Are  they coping with the fear and stress? And let's be   very, very honest that there's a lot of fear that  centers around COVID-19. There's a lot of stress   that comes with that, whether you have had  COVID-19 or know somebody who has had COVID-19, or   whether you're just hearing about it on the  television. One thing I will tell people,   I tell people all the time is remember that the  television is there to ultimately to make money.   Yes, it gives you news but it is there ultimately  to make money, and be ourselves. So a lot of what   we hear on television sources on maybe just  the snippet and not the total truthful story so   a lot of times, I know in my household we've  gone to really not watching a whole lot of news   because we were finding that even  ourselves as we watched more and more,   we were getting into this kind of this panic and  not knowing into a healthy, healthy situation so   we kind of turned it off. Not that we're living  in a bubble by any stretch of the imagination but   the constant bombardment can be really  increased that stress level and that fear.   So just watching how much of the news we are  watching is something that we need to be aware of.   That's an easy fix. We can turn it off. If your  family member expressing the appreciation for your   relationship and that helps to support people's  sense of purpose, asking for people's opinions.   And for their guidance or help as I said earlier,   our seniors have just an incredible wealth of  wisdom and knowledge and advice that they can give   and sometimes they don't even realize they have  that until we start asking them for questions,   for guidance and opinions and discussing things  with them. So letting your senior loved one or any   loved one in your family know how much you admire  them, the things that you admire about them,   asking for their opinion, their guidance on  anything that you want your day also helps to   build people's sense of purpose. And then again to  frequent remind your loved one how important he or   she is to you. We tend to take more for granted  the ones that are closest to us, so our family,   whether it's parents, aunts, or uncles.  Let them know how much they mean to you,   let them know how important they are to you.   And if they are in a situation where they are  or should not be out and about in the stores and   those types of things, offer to pick up groceries  for them, other essentials that they may need, or   cook them a meal. You can cook the meal and leave  it and they can pick it up on their doorstep.   We can do these things without having the  physical contact if we need to avoid that.   Another thing is to just watch out for any decline  that you might see, any decline physically and a   decline cognitively that you might see, and then  to seek out professional advice or medical care.   Homecare therapists are still available, they're  still coming into the homes physical therapists,   occupational therapists, nurses are  still coming into the homes. We are doing   medical visits well care, we are helping  people to stay healthy physically.   There are psychologists and counselors that  are doing counseling services via Zoom calls.   So there's there’s medical advice and professional  advice out there. If you start to see a decline.   Um, one thing we want to be very  careful of in this time of COVID   is not to neglect, excuse me not to neglect other  areas because we're too afraid of COVID. So we   don't we want to make sure that we're getting the  medical care and the counseling care that we need   and we can do that with a lot of innovative  technologies that have come up because of   this that we'll cover a little bit later on.  We can do this through technology, without   even having to have physical contact. Focusing  on physical activity. And this is a great one.   Just because coronavirus has increased. If you  have the availability to get out and take a walk,   get out and take a walk. Walking is a  great exercise to give you fresh air,   gives you physical exercise, you can wave to  your neighbors across the street without having   close physical contact with them also having  some social engagement. By seeing neighbors.   So whether it's getting out and taking a walk or  whether it's doing some exercise in your home or   with on a Zoom platform or a virtual platform.  All those we want to keep our physical activity,   um, high that will help us build community,  that will help us cognitively, and physically   stay healthy and well. And then take advantages  of creative outlets. Know people's schedules have   lifted a little bit. And so we have a little bit  more time, maybe go back to music that you used to   love, pull out an old instrument that you used  to play and try and take that up again. It's a   perfect time to do some art. to do some crafting,  I met with a woman, actually two days ago and   she was 96 years old and she said, you know,  she's very very active but the coronavirus has   decreased her, or her ability to get out and  go around and have lunch with their friends.   So she got her old sewing machine out  again and she's doing a lot of quilting,   and she's donating her quilts to family and  friends and and communities things people that are   looking for donations at this time and the stuff  she's doing is absolutely amazing. So rekindling   some of those creative outlets that may have  kind of been on the back burner or woodworking   for, for people any of those types of things  that you can rekindle your creative side   and engaging in online opportunities for  learning we're going to cover that a little   bit in a couple more slides in a little more  detail on tapping into spiritual communities.   Many churches and synagogues are back. Having  services they are socially distance they,   they're using on their own, not only their  sanctuaries but their community rooms so   that people can be safely distanced apart  and still have some spiritual connection.   And then cognitive games and exercises. Things  such as puzzles and Sudoku, online cards or chess,   word finding puzzles anything like that that keeps  your brain active and thinking and challenged   are all great opportunities. During this time  where we need to be a little bit more isolated.   Virtual get togethers with the whole family  or with a group of friends. We're gonna get   we're going to cover this a little bit in more  detail but virtually getting together with people   enjoying happy hour book club or catching up with  one another. Those are great things. I'm writing   or sending emails or writing letters, good old  fashioned writing letters. We lost that art and   I think people love to get letters, they love to  get that hand-written message so sending letters,   writing emails, just touching base with people is  a great way to continue to have an opportunity to   connect. Another thing is to dive into a genealogy  project or work on assembling your family tree.   This is a time where we can introspective  think about our family and ourselves and   what a great legacy to provide for your  family. If you put together your family tree.   Take a look at your genealogy, and maybe learn  some different things about your family history.   And then consider ways to support others from  home or to volunteer. If you sew sewing masks,   making meals, I have a gentleman that I'm  working with who makes wooden toys. And   so he has increased the time that he's spending  making these wooden toys and he's donating them   to centers that are collecting toys for kids and  for families in need. So anything that you can   do, making meals for the for the people that  are in need. I know our family we make and   through New Season In Life, we make meals weekly  for our local homeless community. So making a meal   for people and any form of service that you would  have, maybe it's making a meal for a neighbor   that might be in need or struggling. So volunteer  activities are always a great way to give back on   while we have the time to be able to do that.   So using technology. People tell me “Oh. Oh, my  mother would never be just never able to get   an able to use a computer or a tablet” and I let  them know that that's just not true. I have so   many seniors that are now using technology, using  their computer, or their family got them tablet   and they're now being able to stay connected with  their families, connected with their communities,   connected with their doctors, their  churches. Through this technology,   there is a learning curve but, but it can be done.  So having technology available for your senior,   doing virtual calls and hangouts, just calling  up and being able to see your mom, your dad, your   aunt, your uncle’s face and then to be able to see  yours and just hang out and having a discussion,   whether it's a 10 minute call or whether it's an  hour and a half, a call with the whole family.   I know many, many families are doing weekly  Zoom calls so that's something that we do in   our family because we're spread out. And so we  have weekly calls and catch up with them make   sure everybody's doing okay see how we can help  each other out. Social media engagement, Facebook   is a great tool for families to use you can create  a private Facebook group, or just your family,   and be able to share pictures that remain  private. This is a great way for you to reminisce   of old pictures that people find and they can  post those in your family group and be able to   talk about those and comment on those and  relive those older, those past experiences.   We talked about email communication, online  or virtual book club, storytelling, virtual   book clubs are becoming very large again and if  you love to read, that's a great thing to get   involved in. Just like a regular book club only  you don't get together physically in one spot,   you are virtual and you read your book and  then you discuss that virtually. And then   storytelling is another thing that has come  up with this. And it's kind of an interesting,   interesting thing that I found many people  have enjoyed doing and what you do is you   find a prompt or a picture and it could be  anything, a picture of a sunrise over a lake, and   you put that out and everybody writes just  a few sentences about what that picture,   how that picture speaks to them, and then  you assemble all those sentences together   and it comes out in this story. And sometimes  it's very funny and sometimes it's kind of moving.   It's sort of like the old Mad Libs from when I  was a kid only with full paragraphs and sentences.   So just some fun things to do with that. Videos,  exercise videos and exercise classes, many of the   exercise classes have gone online. Many are free,  there are a ton of exercise classes, whether it's   chair yoga, chair Pilates, all kinds of different  exercise classes that are out there for free for   seniors and be able to take those classes,  and you can do those virtually to, so that   there may be some body that's running a live  class and you can join into that class, virtually.   Another great thing is opportunities for learning  and education. Again, there have popped up to have   many, many online opportunities for learning,  whether it's through your library. I know the   libraries have a ton of different online learning  and education classes and opportunities for you   to do that but there are also other ones you  can travel the world now, virtually. You can go   and do new museums, virtually and many many of  these are free. So, if you would like some, some   specific websites I have a list of free online  opportunities for education and travel virtually.   If you would like that I can just let me  know and I can email you a list of those   websites. And then we talked a little bit of  medical and counseling appointments. Doctors are   doing telehealth visits now so I've had many of  our clients have met with their doctors virtually   on over their iPads or their computers the iPads  work really great because we can show the doctor,   can take the iPad and turn it and show them. If  there's something on your arm that's bothering you   or your foot that's bothering you, we can actually  show the doctor the body part that is the issue   and you can talk to them. Again counseling,  um, again, is available online as well.   Shopping online, you can have your  groceries delivered to your doorstep.   And then, church services and small groups  so there are many churches now that are doing   small groups. So there's groups of, you know,  a few people from from four to ten people that   get together virtually and share through their,  their faith in small groups throughout the week.   And now holiday specific ways to remain engaged;  singing Christmas carols, if you have a Christmas   or a Hanukkah tradition that you do, whether  it's singing Christmas carols you can still do it   you can do it on virtual platforms such as Zoom,  Zoom everybody in, have sing Christmas carols,   playing the piano, playing the guitar, singing,  on having Christmas together. Last year we   had a family that had moved to Texas and somebody  moved to Colorado and so, for Christmas we had an   ugly sweater contest and we actually Zoomed both  of them in for the entire four hours that we were   together. They wore their ugly sweaters, they  voted on our ugly sweater contest and we actually   took our Christmas family picture together with  the iPad in the front so they were all together   with us, virtually, so you can have those  opportunities to continue your family traditions.   Having meals together, virtually.  Have your Christmas if you can't   be with your family if you're senior  you can't be with your family. Um,   virtually get together with them, enjoy dinner  together with them. Just not in the same room.   Again opening presents together, watching a movie  together. Netflix, I know now has this group   on feature where you can all watch a movie  together and it starts and stops at the same   time. Sharing recipes together or cooking, cooking  your, your holiday meals together, sharing those   recipes, providing guidance, if you're a senior  providing guidance to your family. For those   little, little, little special things that you  do with your recipes to make them absolutely   fabulous. And then again attending  church services together virtually.   These are all ways that we can enjoy the holidays  together, stay engaged, stay in a community,   even if that community isn't physically  able to, um, be in the same room with us.   So New Season In Life, how can we help?  Again, we are senior care consultants, if you   are finding that you're having trouble,   finding that things are slipping or you're,  you're noticing some of those triggers, we can   help to get you connected with the appropriate  professional people, we can help get connected   with communities, if you are looking at senior  living communities. We can help with that as well.   And we can come out and do home safety evaluations  and we have other partnerships that we can   also provide to you, and our services are free.  We do not charge our clients for our services so   if you feel that you may need some help  during this coronavirus, COVID season   on staying engaged or ideas or websites,  please feel free to reach out to me   and my information is here. And I can  provide you with websites I can provide   you with guidance for this duration during  coronavirus. And are there any questions? 