 (lively guitar and singing) - My name is Anthony Aldinger. I'm known as Mr. Nature from Mr. Nature's Music Garden right here in the Old Pueblo Tucson Arizona. Before COVID, my profession has been creating and helping children and their families build foundations, strengthen foundations for positive social interaction. Both my parents are disabled and I live on the same property they do and so my number one job now is protecting and taking care of them. All right, everybody ready? I lost 100% of my clients. Let's do our oms. (humming) So I immediately started looking into doing virtual program. (guitar playing) So I started doing two shows live a week through Instagram. I do one on Tuesday and one on Friday, both at 10 a.m. and it's working. I've got an amazing community backing me up (children singing) I've always believed that it's not your responsibility to make the world happy. It is your responsibility to cultivate happiness within yourself and share that with the world. Peace, love, remember to be kind. - Hi I'm Johanna Lindy. - And I'm Victor Valenzuela. - And we're going to be performing three duos from Mozart's 12 duos for horn. (horns playing) I'm a professional musician based in Tucson. I'm the principle horn of the Tucson Symphony and I'm also on faculty at the University of Arizona. It's been a very interesting spring. I think most people would say that. (horn plays) - For most of my colleagues in the symphony, it's financially a challenge just everyday. There really is no substitute for hearing a group of 80 musicians. That's not something I can recreate on my own in my living room. (horns playing) I have a project that I run only in the spring and it's a high school horn choir. As a final project we decided to put together a video recording so I asked all the students to record for their parts. I created a click track for them to play along with. (horns playing) It was something small but really proud of them for sticking through the whole semester. (horn and piano playing) Both for myself and other classical musicians I know were pretty low-tech and this has forced us to get to the equipment to start stretching ourselves and to starting thinking, are there other modes of delivery for what we do? So it can be seen as a creative time. - I've never seen so many musicians take to online to perform ever in my life. I'm Matt Rolland. I'm the Director of Programs at the Southern Arizona Arts and Culture Alliance, SAACA, and I oversea our programs and festivals as well as our CATALYST Arts & Maker Space here at Tucson Mall. (instrumental music plays) We run about 6 concert series throughout the year and COVID has impacted all of them. - Hello our dear Oro Valley audience. - When out Oro Valley concert series had to be canceled because of COVID, we proposed to the town to take the remaining concerts through the spring and summer season and switch them to online format. They loved the idea. The mayor was on board and so they agreed to continue that funding and we switched to production mode, produced those concerts in house. - It's a challenge, you know. We've been working on this for a long time to make livestreams possible. I never thought I would do something like this. (piano plays) - Everyone's learning how to avoid that first two minutes where you're like "Am I on, am I on?". - (instrumental music plays) - One, two, three. - I'm looking for is are people going to be willing to start paying for tickets to watch these concerts rather than just relying on tips? Everyone has said that tips have been steadily decreasing. The second thing is is production value going to go up and how much does that matter? - Good evening world. This is Street Blues Family. Special occasion tonight. (instrumental music plays) - People would love to go see us live because it was just, it was a really big experience. (powerful music plays) - There's been a lot of streams where there's no drums and just because technically that's a hard thing to pull off with just an iPhone mic. So we thought like we could get that full band experience as close as possible with their circumstances. (music plays) - Last night I had a nightmare that I died. I woke up in a cold sweat, my eyes wide. - We're inside of a lighting shop here that's owned by Scott Plumber. He kind of opened up his doors to us to come in and just try this project out. - No audience is such a technical marvel. There's so much stuff here. (music plays) - I was singing the same tune I time it just can't move Till I hesitate to go, thinking Well now it's not that I hate you - It just feels way different but it's still feels good to play. (music continues) Hesitate - Hesitate - Hesitate - Hesitate - The musical aspect feels more vulnerable. It feels different but the product is way better. - Really looks good and makes us feel amazing and it almost distracts us from the fact that we're in the middle of a pandemic and we can't play out live. (music plays) - Welcome to America. - I've always been extremely tactile. For my living I'm a welder and a carpenter. Screens, TV, it just doesn't do a lot for me and never has. (lively music plays) - My name is Jimmy Carr. I'm a musician here in Tucson Arizona. Primarily these days I'm an accordion player. (accordion plays) - I was watching Rebecca and Scott at Tap & Bottle do their delivery and it just sort of occurred to me. I was like let's delivery music. (lively music continues) - Good hearted woman - Loving the good thriving band - Through the Tap & Bottle website, we've become an item on the menu. You can look it up, Sidewalk Serenade, and you can click on it right after you click on your favorite bottle of wine. The dates and times available will be listed. You just pick it. And we show up right on time and play the Sidewalk Serenade. (lively music continues) - She don't understand - Screens are what they are, fun and useful but there is two different things. (audience claps) 