 Hi, thank you so much everyone for joining. I'm Josie Duffy Rice. I'm president of The Appeal. We're a news outlet that produces original journalism about the criminal justice system. I'm also an Eric and Wendy Schmidt Fellow at New America and co-host of the Justice in America podcast. I'm very honored to be here and to be joining you all for another Social Distancing Social from Future Tense. Future Tense is a partnership of Slate, New America and Arizona State University . Today we're talking about how Covid-19 is threatening prison health systems and I'm joined by Lawrence Bartley, the director of News Inside with the Marshall Project. Hi Lawrence. Hi Josie. How are you? I'm good. Thank you so much for joining. Thank you for having me. Of course, of course. So let's start with just telling the audience a little bit about what we're seeing and hearing, about what's happening in prisons right now across the nation with this virus. What are you hearing about in terms of how prisons are being hit, jails are being hit, and what's the current situation, if you had to kind of, I mean, there are thousands of correctional facilities. So you can't just, you know, draw too broad of a brush across all of them, but what are we in general seeing. Especially in places like New York City, Boston, Washington State, places that have been particularly hit hard. Well, in general, by the way prisons are designed, it's virtually impossible to social distance, you know. Cells are like you see on TV. These long hallways with... when the doors are made of bars. People right next to each other. So as you can imagine, if someone was to cough, then that cough mist will go in the air and it can go in the cell next to the person, cell on top or below. Also, there are these dorm areas where people sleep in dorms with cots that are just three feet apart and there's no way to social distance at all. So, as one would imagine, the virus is passing along pretty rapidly inside of correctional facilities. But what we've been noticing lately is that, which is no surprise to people who are incarcerated, that they are the very last people to get tested, or for any officials to pay close attention to. Because of that, you will see different pockets of states who are testing entire facilities. But you don't see like the entire country testing the entire prison population. So we just don't know how many people have been affected by the coronavirus. Last count, we just studied it, we've done a Marshall project, we found that 9,437 people have tested positive for the coronavirus. And that number is rising, the trend is going up, just as on the outside the curve is being flattened. But that number doesn't scratch the surface of how many people have been affected, because people just simply aren't being tested. Yeah, you know, I think, like at Rikers right in New York City, which has obviously been hit the hardest in terms of cities nationwide, we're seeing a rate 10 times that of outside, of people in Rikers who actually have contracted the virus. And so, what we know and what I think people don't actually think about a lot when it comes to prisons and correctional facilities, is how much mobility there is in the sense that people are all constantly being released from these facilities. Especially jails. People who work there go home to their families, their families go to work, we are talking about... we're not talking about just people being infected in the facility, right? When you allow for a virus to run rampant in such a small space and those people are aren't all staying in that small space, then we're also contributing to the illness outside of a jail or prison. Exactly. I mean that's a point that I've been bringing up for about two or three weeks now. That there can be a staff member who contracted the virus and that person can be handing out the mail, to give it to someone who's incarcerated. That incarcerated person can go into a mess hall and pass it to numerous people throughout the facility. And  those people can pass it to correctional officers in a whole another part of the jail, and that correctional officer can bring it home to his family member. The family member can go to work and pass it on to other people. So, whereas we're flattening the curve out here, in a few months we can see another spike, and future waves start to occur because we didn't pay attention to what's happening in the correctional facilities. A place where, as I mentioned, they can't social distance, they can't wear masks because it's against the rules. You don't have on gloves. They're just starting to give out cleaning supplies like bleach, watered-down bleach and Purell. But that's not everywhere. A lot of places don't have Purell. They can't clean themselves or stay safe. So, that's a very good point you raised. Yeah. Let's talk about supplies briefly. Because you know, there's a lot of talk about making sure you're washing your hands, making sure you're sanitizing, making sure you're wearing a mask, you know. There's very few things that someone could do, in a situation where they're trapped with lots of people, to maybe stave off an infection. And in prison that's basically impossible. You made the point about watered-down bleach and Purell. But would you say that basically what you're seeing is just complete unavailability of supplies? I would say that some... New York State, their officials, they're trying to issue supplies. But it's a chain of command. The superintendent just can't say, "I'm going to give everyone bleach. I'm going to give everyone masks." You have to get approved. Even Albany has to get approval from the government. But they're trying to trickle down. They're trying to do something. So they're passing out watered-down bleach inside of New York state correctional facilities. But then they've got different places like Mississippi and Arkansas, in these different places, where it's different there. And sometimes they don't have access to supplies, or even soap for that matter. One guy in Mississippi reached out to me and said that he has to share a sink with 60 people in his dorm. They have to share 10 sinks between 60 people, and they have soap there, and the sinks are so dirty. And he had to share, like it's crumbles of soap, little. It's not just a soap bar, it's crumbled pieces of it. They all have to share. So it's really tough for these people to keep their selves safe. And then I think the other thing that we know, right, is that sometimes you only can get soap if you have enough money to get soap. If you can afford it from a commissary. And that's a class. That has its own sort of economic implications, right? It also has implications about who has family they can rely on to actually give them commissary money. Who has resources like that? And I think, some of the stories we're hearing at the appeal, people are trading their packets of food for soap, or their packets of food for a face mask. And much of prison is an underground economy, just because we don't provide people in these facilities with the resources that they need, in order to have what they need, ever. But I think, especially in a moment like this, my personal opinion is that it's neglect, right? I mean, it's like it is not only asking for these people to get sick to force them to pay for soap, but it's asking for the people who work there to get sick. And that's what we're seeing. We're seeing left and right that correctional officers are dying from coronavirus right now, because we haven't prioritized their health, as well as the people in prison. Who are also, many of them are also dying. Yes. And correction officers are forced to conduct strip searches. Must be very intimate. Search cells. And their lives are at risk. I'm talking about the incarcerated people, but correctional officers feel it, too. And they're people too. And they're being ignored. They're being forced to do things that are putting everyone at risk. And it's sad to do. And I'm glad you brought up the point about on how, economically, it can be tough for someone incarcerated. Unfortunately, I was incarcerated. I went to prison when I was 17 years old, and I did 27 years and 2 months. And on the inside, I know that my prison job... the least a person can make in a New York state prison is 10 cents an hour. And I mean, I was one of the fortunate ones. I was making $20 every two weeks. I was fortunate. So, I had to ration that money between food, soap, you know toiletries, and whatever. I needed to sustain myself for two weeks. Because going into the mess hall wasn't an option. So, imagine those people who, the state provides one bar of state soap every week. How can they wash their hands every time they go in and out of their cell, every time they touch cardboard, or a metal surface, or a plastic surface where the virus could live on for a substantial period of time. So it's very tough in those situations and it kind of fuels that underground economy. And just thinking that those who don't have the means, don't have the hustle, or don't have the ability to borrow something, they can lose their life just because of that. And you know, a lot of the narrative around this virus is we have to help each other. We have to support each other. We're all in this together, etc... But what does is it mean when, if you have a bar of soap, 59 other people in your general area don't. Like, it doesn't... you can't save yourself, then. And you can't really save other people. And what we're once again doing is saying to the world, not only that incarcerated people don't matter, but that we're not even going to give them the tools to be able to protect their own health. The way that we're punishing them, and in such a different, such a more extreme way than, I think, most people think about incarceration. You are right. Unfortunately, it's sad. But I hope that, we all hope that, this virus wasn't here. That we don't have to be in this situation. But, there are lessons to learn from this situation. And like you mentioned, that we're all in this together, once we all... well, I think we all already figured it out. That a virus can pass from people incarcerated to people on the outside. But acting on it, figuring it out and acting on it, is two different things. But, once what we know to be true, coming in line with how state officials are acting on it, and the government is acting on it, to trickle down to the the person that is sitting in this cell inside of a correctional facility, making only 10 cents an hour sweeping and mopping the floor, and we do things to help that individual, which in turn will help everybody else stay healthy, then we effectively turn the corner in the right direction. So, I'm hoping that we see something like that occur. So after this is all over, then we can start looking at punishment differently, when people are treated differently, going forward. So, let's talk about "solutions." I mean, one of the backend solutions is medical care. Health care. Providing if you're not gonna do anything to prevent people from getting a virus in a correctional facility, are you going to be able to treat them? And that's something I don't actually think that we talk, that the world talks, enough about. Or the political structures talk enough about. Which is, how poor the health care system is in correctional facilities. I mean, there are some really, really incredible doctors who work in this system. So, it's not to say that each individual in it is poor, but they're not given the supplies, the time, and the resources that they need to be able to provide health care to those who are struggling the most. Right. I've heard so many people who are incarcerated and they had their theories on what goes on. And one man telling me that health care systems inside of prisons, they are the reason why these entities will be able to buy services. Because they bid on contracts in order to do so. These contracts they bid on, as I say they've bid against another service provider. And service provider "A" says, "I can give you 10services at this price," but service provider "B" says, "I can give you 15 services at this price." They'll go with "B," right? So, when they do that it kind of dilutes the services they give the everyday person. Like, when a person goes in with chest pains, they might say, "Alright, take this aspirin for your chest pains, or medicine that they give it for everything. A person who's been incarcerated for a long time, they know that it's just one medication that they give for almost everything. Some states make you pay for it. I've seen bills that they want to copay for people who are poor to begin with, they go to prison and their families are impoverished, so it's like crazy. But if it isn't any co-pays, it's just real tough on people. So imagine you just exacerbate an already stressed health care system. You might be some great doctors that you mentioned, but they have limited resources and they have to follow the culture of how they handled their incarcerated patients in order to maintain their jobs. And then it's exacerbated by this COVID-19 crisis. Then you have a lot of bodies piling up as a result. Yeah. I think that's, I mean, what you hear about the expectations of people in the medical industry in correctional facilities. It's, you know, how much can we get for how little money. It's funny in an era where it's like, you can keep your health care if you want to. Like, what we know is that in correctional facilities, you have no choice about who provides you medical care. What they provide, and whether they're willing to listen to you. And we keep hearing stories that the appeal of people saying, "Well, I went in and I said", there was one out of Louisiana, but a man he said, "I think I have coronavirus." In Louisiana, prisons are being hit horribly right now. Just really, really rough. "I have coronavirus, I think I have COVID-19," and he got, first of all, beaten by sheriff's deputies in jail for asking for help. And then, once you get help, if they say, "We're not gonna treat you for this," you don't have any recourse. You don't have any option. And now, the other thing we're seeing, left and right, is like it's not as if there are a lot of doctors. There's usually one, maybe two, and if they get sick, what do we do? And so, every sort of social ill that kind of is encompassed in the criminal justice system, if more generally, but I also think in sort of the American social fabric, is so exacerbated in prisons. And we're seeing what happens now. When you have a system that doesn't take care of people's basic human needs, and something like this virus hits. That's really something. I remember, as you were speaking, I'm just thinking of so many different scenarios. Like, what if the doctor you mentioned gets sick and is not there. What they have to do is, they usually have a contract with the the closest medical facility next to them. So, they put you in an ambulance and try to send you there. We wrote a story on incarcerated coming to a, with COVID-19, coming to an ICU near you. So you send an incarcerated person to a local hospital area to be treated. But then, there's people in the hospital, people in the community that don't want you there. We don't want this incarcerated person there. And I understand the logic. Some people who are incarcerated did some horrible things. But, I also know that I've been there for many years, for like over 20 years. And there's some people that I know, that I've spent more time with than I spent with my own parents. And they became like family members to me. And some of those people have done a 180 from what they were. Some of them were into drugs, and did some horrible things. And they're just so embarrassed by the things that they've done. And when they see on the news, when parolees are vilified, they're just so hurt, because that's not who they see themselves as being. 95% of those people are getting out and they just want to be, they want to live. And some parts of them want to be accepted. But when they don't even have a chance to start from go, like go being being released, because the community, or government, or people at large, don't feel that they should be treated for COVID-19, because they are less worthy or because it's taking away resources from someone else. Whatever the reasons are, it results in the death of somebody, who's like, I just want a chance to redeem myself. And what we're doing is we're sentencing people to death, right? Just by function of them being in prison right now. You meet a lot of people who say, "Okay, I don't believe in the death penalty, but I do believe in people going away". Which is, I mean, I understand that. But you know, what we're doing is sentencing people to death. And you can assume that if prison is, or a jail is, actually transporting someone to the hospital, they're in rough shape, right? They're not transporting you to the hospital for a cold. They're not transporting you into the hospital until you're in really, really bad shape. Because we don't prioritize those people. So, we know that this fear of, well, they're going to come into that ICU and they're going to go dangerous, they're not dangerous in a moment of trying to hope that they live through a virus any more than anybody else is dangerous in a moment where they're hoping they live through a virus. But, you brought something up about 95% of people getting out, and it reminds me that a lot of people in prison are really elderly. We have spent 30 years sending people to these excessively long sentences and what does that mean now? It means we have people in prison, thousands of people in prison, who have been in prison for 30 years. I think, you were, you served 27 years, right? Yeah. You know we're talking about 50-, 60-, 70-year-old people, who are sitting in prison cells right now. And we know who's at most risk of the virus. I'd love to hear you talk a little about the elderly populations in prison, because I don't think that's how most people picture prisons, right? And whenever I go, I take someone to a correctional facility for the first time, I feel like that's the first thing they always say is, "I didn't realize there were so many old people in prison." There are a lot of old people. When you talk about elderly, it remind me of this this guy named Coty that I know. He was always been in prison for a very long time. Over 30, or maybe 40 years. He had got so bad that he had a cane. He used to walk very fragile. And people in prison, they got this thing of like, out here, I don't know people realized that, you know, you see the fist bump? The fist bump started in prison. This bump started because, usually, if you shake someone's hand, officials think that you're passing something. So, to reach your friend, people started giving fist bumps instead. So, it was this old man named Coty on a cane, I saw him in the hallway and I wanted to give him a fist bump. But, I had to go down to like, where his hand was holding the cane to kind of bump his fist, and I almost knocked him over because he was so frail. And I remember feeling just so messed up that I almost did that to him. And to know that there's so many other people like that. Who are frail, and they might be, because they're at the end of their life, they experience... the body starts to break down in so many different ways. And then for COVID-19 to hit, those people basically don't have a chance. Even medical prison facility that they go to, you're still piled on top of each other. We just did a story about one in California that Abbie VanSickle, she penned a story about it with a lot of different photos. It's just horrible, a horrible-looking clutter situation. And that's tough. And the thing is, I think what makes it especially unjust to me, is the fact that these are people who, their chances of committing another crime at all, much less a serious crime, what we would consider to be a serious crime, is close to nil. What we know about crime and people's likelihood of committing what we would consider a violent crime is that the older they get the less likely it is. And we know what it means when someone who's 17 does something. It doesn't mean that they're gonna do it at 27, 37, 47, and especially not at 57, 67 and 77. In some ways, I mean, you let these people out of prison to save their lives and you're not putting other lives at risk. But that's actually not a calculation most people are willing to make. I mean people age out. Right? Unfortunately, it's been, you see people being released from jails, but you don't see a lot of people being released from prison in this era. You know, I heard the governor saying, they're going to start letting people out about 55 years and older. But, a lot of people haven't got out. We here to talk about it, but if you do the research, a lot of people haven't got out. What you have are countries, Iran that let out 85,000 prisoners. I'm just reminding people to please submit questions, if you want. We'll start asking them in just a second, if we get any in. You can do it with the Q&A button at the bottom. But, I wanted to talk about mass release, because it's traditionally been the third rail in political decisions. And I think even in a moment like this, what we know is if you don't let people out, they're going to get sick. People get sick. Many of them are going to die. In part, because we have not allowed people in prison to take care of themselves. Provide quality health care to make sure that they're healthy to be able to survive a virus like this. I know that we're hearing talk about people saying, well, we're going to let people out and some people are doing that. Would you say that that's something you're seeing widespread? I heard talk widespread, but I don't see a lot of people getting out. You know, the BOP, the Bureau of Prisons, which is the federal prison system, they say they're gonna let a lot of people out. We did a little research into the numbers. They haven't let a lot of people out because of this. And I hear all the time now, people are saying if you let them out there's not any resources out here. Where are they going to go? People need shelter. And to the person on the inside that's trying to get out, and they finally talk about letting out, then they want another skew. No shelters, no resources for you. It's like man, just let me out of here. Better chance being out there where there's more space. I could go to the store to buy Purell, Clorox, sanitary wipes, gloves, a mask. I can do that. I can't do that in prison. So, let the person out in order to let that person save his or her life. And in the country as a whole, the crime rate has been going down. There's a lot of fear that you let people out, they're gonna commit more crimes, etc., etc., but we don't know that. But it'd be interesting to see what happens if they let people out and the crime rate doesn't spike. Then what happens? Does that mean we had this mass incarceration thing all wrong? What's going to play out over the next couple of months is gonna be super interesting for numerous reasons. Someone actually asked the question: If prisoners at that age get out, how can they survive? You may not have housing, much less a job. And can they get support from the Pandemic Relief Fund? I think these are important questions. How do we provide for people who have been in prison 30, 40, 50 years? And in my experience, my clients who have been up for parole, that has been their biggest obstacle. It's like a parole board saying, "Okay. Well, we don't think you're a risk, but what are you going to do now? You've been in prison forever." But, what we know, I think, is what you're saying: a) that they might not have resources. I mean, there are resources in a lot of places for people who are returning from prison. So, depending on where you are, what you have... but, let's even assume worst-case scenario. They may not have resources. It's better than being in the middle of what is basically sure to be a firestarter situation. But to answer the question about the pandemic relief fund, no. The federal pandemic relief fund has pretty much excluded anybody who was formerly incarcerated or is currently incarcerated from getting those resources. And it's another way that we see us. We see that the government more generally, but especially this federal government in particular, isolating formerly incarcerated people from opportunity. Yes. Once again. Yeah, exactly. Another question we're getting is about programming in prison, particularly educational and work training programs. And it's largely ceased. So what's the effect of that and what should facilities be doing to programming right now? Huh. The effect of that is tough. Like I said, I hear from a lot of people who are incarcerated and we've been sheltering in place for what? Six weeks now? And the same thing inside of prisons. People have been, they already been isolated. But now, they're further isolated. Programs are closed. Some states, you could just go to the gym and yard. And it's very limited. Picture the yard being just a big outside parking lot with no cars and just walking around. No trees, no grass, no nothing. So that can be pretty nervewracking after doing that for a long period of time when a person was used to going to the school building. Or like the prison I went to, they had this theater program called "Rehabilitation Through the Arts." And I found that program quite useful, because for a whole entire year, I had to learn how to perform theatrical, put on theatrical events on a stage. How to learn how to block, how to voice, and I wore costumes. And it made me feel like I was a human being. It made so many others feel like a human being. They learned themselves from being in these programs and expressing their emotions. And to have that taken away from them at a time like this, and it's like, no one to blame. It's not like facility is just taking it away from us. It's taken away from us in order to keep us safe. But at the same time, it still hurts. You even miss some of the civilians that come in that you usually interact with. So that can be super tough. So people want to know what it's going to be like when this is all over. Is everyone going to get inoculated? Then we could convene with each other. Or is there going to be a new way of interacting with one another? So how it will be is interesting. It's an interesting thing that you point out, that they've kind of shut down programming in order to keep people safe. Not like most of us, who are staying home, or social distancing, or many people are, so it's not that that's not understandable. But if you really do want to keep people safe, aren't you also going to then provide them with soap? If you can't let people go to class, it seems like you can make sure they have soap. So it does seem like the opportunities that are being taken from people are the opportunities that provide the most access and resource to people. On "Justice in America," our podcast tomorrow, we're doing an episode with Rodney Spivey-Jones, who's incarcerated currently at Fishkill Correctional Center in upstate New York. I was there just a few months ago and barred prison initiatives, their programming is in Fishkill. This is a life-changing, like you are expressing, just life-changing opportunities for people who don't have access to opportunities so often. So, while I agree, and obviously you have so much personal experience with this, I agree with these programs. Taking away the ability for people to get more sick is good. I feel like they should be doing more. Providing some hand sanitizer if you're not gonna let me do the performing arts program. Feels like those two things could go hand-in-hand. Absolutely. And by the way, I know Rodney. He's an amazing guy. The interview is just incredible and he's really great. The other thing that people might wonder about, sort of related to us about programming, is also visitation. We're seeing visitation shut down entirely right now. In places where there are alternatives, it's often very, very pricey. Video calling. My brother was incarcerated and when he was when we had to use a secured video. That's $30 every 10 minutes or something. Really expensive. Phone calls are expensive. Any sort of communication that's not face-to-face. And even face-to -face is expensive, because it takes resources to get there. And it's directly money out of your pocket, is the visitation options. Could you talk a little bit about what visitation looks like right now? Visitation is nonexistent right now. They were already scarce to begin with. When people get incarcerated they get sent furthest away, in the state away from their family. And that would make it harder for the families to travel to visit. And so they're like, just like out here, there's the haves and there's the have nots. People who have, got visits. And you have to rely on it. And those are the people who are incarcerated who usually thrive the most. You have it together and you don't get a lot of programs. Didn't want to act or go to college. They feel like they're almost whole. They're not whole all the way, but their mental health is pretty stable. And to take that away from them... and once again, it's for good reason. To keep people safe. But still, that has that impact on the psyche. That's kind of hurtful to people. I really thought about that as I prepared my next issue, our next issue of the Marshall Project, of "The News Inside." There's a story, the title is "A Family who Cracks Together Stays Together." And one woman, her husband was incarcerated, and they would do things. Like, "At 8 o'clock there's a program on TV. I'm gonna watch it at 8, and you're gonna watch it at 8. Then we're going to write each other about it. So we're watching it at the same time. We'll feel like we're together." And they would do cool things. Like during Christmas time, she would take a photograph of the ornament on a Christmas tree and mail it to him. And he would put it up on his wall on a Christmas tree that he drew. So they feel like they're connected. So it inspired incarcerated people to do some of those similar things. I love that. Yeah. You know, one of the things we were talking about with Rodney is that Fishkill is being hit really hard by the virus right now. And when people reached out to him and said, "How are you doing," his main concern is his family. That's how all of us feel. Our main concern is our family and friends. I think if you're healthy, or you're not without worry, and when you're more at risk and you can't see the people in any way, shape, or form, that you want to protect. I think it just exacerbates so much of the pain and tragedy of this situation. I love that I can't wait to watch that. That's amazing. So the other question we got that I think is really, really important is: What does it look like after the virus. Do we think that visitation will go back to normal? Do we think programming will go back to normal? Do we think soap will be something people can normally access? Or do we think that the powers that be will take advantage of the limitations and put them in place more permanently? I know it's very depressing to think about. Very depressing and I know there's someone that's going to try to take advantage of it and try to limit some of these interactions with people. But at the same time, I know there are people who are incarcerated who see the things that have worked with this, or the needs, or how important it is to have soap. And they'rewriting proposals in order to pitch it to prison administrators to get things changed for the better. And I'm hoping some of those things that change for the better actually occur. There's also some programs that are run by some amazing people. I mentioned RTA. There's also Hudson Lane. There's many programs all over the country. And these people who run the programs, they have a long-standing relationship with the prison system. And I hope that prison officials don't lock them out because of this, but a lot of it is going to be dependent on the health care community out here. Will we find a cure or some type of inoculation in order to keep people safe? So, it's gonna depend on that. One question we got was about people leaving. Since they're sort of a high percentage of asymptomatic carriers, are people who are leaving correctional facilities being tested? Or are there any precautions to make sure that they are not taking this back to their families? It varies by state and it varies by facility. There's some that aren't. But I heard of one facility where a person is leaving and he's being tested when he leaves. But also is making sure that he has to stay quarantined for 14 days in the home that he goes to. Interesting. Andy Mullins asked that question. I just wanted to say that's really good to hear. I hadn't even heard that. Most of what I'm hearing is that there's no... I think in Ohio they've tested almost everybody for the virus in at least a couple of the state facilities. But, in general, no there aren't those precautionary measures. I think this goes back to what we were talking about at the very beginning. We talked about wanting to keep people safe. But, there are some ways that we could. If you're in a facility where more than half of the people have been at least severely exposed to this virus without any cleaning materials, without a face mask, without gloves. If you really want to keep people safe, you test them before they leave that facility. We're not seeing that enough places. Yeah, that's what we need to see. Yeah, absolutely. I wonder, as we're sort of wrapping up here, if you want to talk about what this means more broadly for criminal justice reform? Where are the places where we need to take what we're seeing in this moment of illness and apply it to the rest of the criminal justice system? In terms of, what are the changes you want to see? And what does this say about our criminal justice system in America? Well, the first thing, if it comes to that, a lot of people are going to be released because of COVID-19. And if you find that crime doesn't spike like I mentioned before, then that might be something that we need to consider as a country. We're locking people up and and maybe they don't need to be there, because they're not a danger to society as we have thought. Sure, there are going to be outliers. There are going to be some things that happen. It's not going to be a 100%. But, you don't throw out the baby with the bathwater. That sort of thing. Also, we need to think about how prisons are structured. The inability to social distance when something like this happens. So, the way facilities are structured probably is going to have to change in the future in order to keep everyone safe. So, those are some of the things that we need to take a look at, and I hope that people will take a look at. And we'll see what happens. I think what we think about when we think about how this virus kind of makes clear, makes plain, who, I think as you put it earlier, the haves and have-nots more broadly. We know who the essential workers are, we know who the people who are mostly getting sick are, we know what it means when you actually can't stay home, you can't self-isolate, we know that poor people, people without health care, people of color, these are the people who are being ravaged by this virus. I think something came out today that said half of New Yorkers know someone who has died from COVID-19. Know of someone who's died from Covid-19. And 74% of white people do not know anybody who's died of COVID-19. But over 50% of black and Latino people do know someone who has died of COVID-19. It's hitting outer boroughs much harder than it's hitting Manhattan. It's hitting poor zip codes much harder than it's hitting rich zip codes. All of those social functions exist and then times 10 when you talk about correctional facilities. This is where the worst parts of American society are just on display constantly, unapologetically. It is, I hope, an opportunity, if there is an opportunity in this, it's to really rethink what it means to lock someone up. Are you okay with sentencing someone to death. Because that is what you're doing BY keeping them in prison right now. In Atlanta, where I am, just yesterday a judge said, you know, there are 100, 200 people, in the local jail here. And a judge, who have been granted bond, but they can't afford bond. And the judge said they're not letting them out, which means you stay in jail. you probably get coronavirus, because coronaviruses are hitting the jail, because you're poor. Just because you're poor. That's it. And are we okay being that kind of society? Is that who we want to be? That's a good question. I think you've made a very valid point. This has put our culture, or our country, the worst parts of our country, on display for all the reasons you just mentioned. And I wonder if people are gonna stand up and do something positive about it, or are people are gonna use this in order to get worse. So, we'll see what happens. Yeah. Well, thank you so much Lawrence for joining us. Lawrence Bartley, he's the director of News Inside with the Marshall Project. I'm Josie Duffy Rice, I am president of The Appeal and Eric and Wendy Schmidt Fellow at New America. Thank you all so much for joining us. And tune in every Tuesday and Thursday for more Future Tense Social Distancing Socials. Thank you so much, everybody. 