 Coronavirus outbreak or covid-19 outbreak has impacted various Industries across the world every one of us. Everyone of us are supposed to sit at home for the security purposes or for our health purpose Education sector is also being forced to rethink about the strategy related to various aspects like admission process or examination process. Entire staff of Education institution or university sitting at home and trying to understand how technology can be very useful for them to execute certain key processes like academic exams as well as admission process. Technology is certainly available, which can help them to mitigate covid-19 related outbreak thing and they can certainly use technology in order to continue their admission cycle or continue their examination process. So in today's video, I am going to share some of the key tips related to Administration strategies to be effectively executed in this covid-19 era of social distancing. So stay tuned. So first key tip related to managing admission cycle could be Chat Bots. Chat bot is a program or live chat program that is installed on your website. So imagine if particular student or prospective parents are visiting your website and they have certain queries then chat bot is something that can easily resolve their queries there and there itself. In this today's covid-19 area. There are a lot of health care companies of healthcare sector being effectively implementing the chat bot in order to resolve various queries of the covid-19 healthcare aspects for various patients all across the world. Even governments have also started implementation of chat bot on the technologies on the WhatsApp as well as on the Facebook in order to resolve various queries of the covid-19 related information. Similarly chatbot install on a education website can easily resolve the student queries chat bot can help education institute's to instantly resolve queries of the student as well as parent. It can also act as an effective lead generation mechanism for the education institution Student visiting the website can type their queries in the chat bot and based on the artificial intelligence of programmatic analysis of frequently asked questions chat bot can easily resolve the queries of the students there and there itself. It will Simplify overall admission cycle related query resolution process and it can effectively speed up the lead generation process for the education institution as well. You can also save lot of cost associated with the query management like student might be sending a lot of emails or you might be receiving a lot of phone calls related to queries related to admission cycle, but chat bot can easily help to resolve those queries on instant basis There are many Education Institute who have implemented chat bot and they have experienced more than 50% of the instant very resolution for the students and overall satisfaction level has also been increased tremendously. Another key aspect related to managing effective admission strategy would be video conferencing tools. So today is a era of distance learning or it is era of social distancing as well. So in this case, you can easily manage online webinars, or you can easily go live on the Facebook, YouTube or Instagram to promote your Education Institute or provide various presentations to those students in an online social media era. So going online using tools, effective tools like Zoom or Google Hangout will help you to interact with the students in an digital manner where student can ask their queries and your education counselor or your professor can resolve those queries related to admissions using Google hangout or Zoom admission calls. That will definitely help students to get to know about Education Institute as well as their queries associated with admission process can effectively been resolved. Webinar is a key thing where you can easily record webinar using any mobile camera and that can be streamed on a weekly basis. So imagine you can easily declare to the student that your webinar is happening on each Saturday at say 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. And during webinar, you can run the pre-recorded video which will be broadcasted to those students and there will be live chat available during the webinar the students can ask their queries related to admission process or education institute that can be resolved by someone like education counselor or Professor associated with education institute. This will definitely help you to build your own Brand in this covid-19 era of social distancing. Another key aspect related to managing admission processes, making it completely paperless. effective platform Like ePravesh provides simplified mechanism where you can easily convert your application form in a digital format. You can even accept soft copies of the mark sheet, category certificate, Sports certificate, or any other academic certificate associated with student. Students can also upload their photographs as well as the digital sign copy online. You can also accept online application form fees using various mechanisms, like online payment or mobile valid based payments as well. It will definitely help you to continue your admission cycle in an effective manner with the help of digital technology. Admission process has various facilities where you can build your application form in your own native language. So imagine if you are running admission process for particular State and their language preference is say in Gujarati. The in that case you can easily design your online application form in Gujarati language. So that students will be able to understand that application form effectively and they will not face any kind of trouble while filling the application form. So online form filling is an effective mechanism that will help you to continue your admission cycle in an effective manner and ePravesh platform has been used by hundreds of Education Institute as well as universities, millions of applications have been processed with the help of ePravesh platform you can take advantage of the ePraveshplatform to continue your admission cycle in this covid-19 era in an effective manner. Another important aspect associated with admission processes would be the admission test. So in case of some of those schools as well as for Education Institute, they prefer to conduct entrance exam for those students to identify if they are suitable for the admission cycle or admission process or not. So in this era of social distancing, you can easily use online assessment platform technology like Ekalavvya, which has secure online examination process; with the help of remote proctoring you can easily monitor the remote candidates with attempting the online exam. So platform also provides various facilities for cheating detection and cheating probation using various AI proctoring based mechanism. There are a lot of Education institutes and schools who are conducting their admission test effectively using the Eklavvya platform. Using Eklavvya platform and its Associated proctoring technology, you can effectively continue your admission test procedure. You can also conduct online entrance exam tests effectively with the help of online examination platform like Eklavvya. One more important aspect related to continuing your Education Institute operations is accepting fee. So in the era of social distancing, you can easily accept fees in an online mechanism. ePravesh platform provides various ways and means where you can easily accept online fee payment from the various students, that will help you to collect your academic fees in the era of social. You can easily manage various reports like total fee collected, total pending fee to be collected from the individual students or overall analytics associated with the payment management process can also be effectively tracked on the ePravesh platform.  So to conclude, covid-19 era of lockdown has certainly affected Education Institute and their operations. But with the help of Technology adoption for online admission process as well as online examination process, you can overcome that barriers associated with the continuation of your admission cycle. You can effectively manage your admission cycle with the help of various tools and Technologies, like chat bot or online admission form or even providing the various webinars for the prospective students. With the help of free tools like Zoom as well as Google hangout or even going Live on YouTube Instagram or Facebook in order to interact with the prospective students. So those are the key techniques that will definitely help you to overcome the social era of social distancing in order to effectively manage your admission strategy of Education Institution.  Thank you for watching this video. If you are looking for more such interesting video related to education technology or admission process or examination process, then please subscribe to our Channel. Thank you. 