 Hi I'm Matt. The in-house, all by myself, just here at redpepper. And welcome to the WFH edition of Do Not Touch On Tech, where we report on the latest uses of social distancing technology. So you may be asking, "Matt, the garage looks a little different." Well, it's just because I had to recreate it at my own house because of this whole social distancing thing, and this work-from-home activity that everyone's partaking in. So hope you like it; I did my best. So in this time of staying six feet apart, you may be wondering, "how do you actually still get together?" There's been a ton of clever ways people have been doing this lately, and I wanted to share them with you - at least six feet apart. So it's a lot of musicians having a hard time doing any type of live touring, or even live events, their turning it to twitch to figure out a way to make a little bit extra money on the side - and even show a little bit of behind the scenes of how they do what they do in the meantime. Did you want to check out what Mark Riblet is doing? How he makes his beats? Well, hop on his livestream. He's doing a twitch livestream. You can give him a few bucks, give him a tip, throw it in his tip bucket - help a man out. And if you're a fan of Berlin night clubs that have techno and trance music - just like me, which I tend to frequent usually on the weekends- so they've turned in virtual ticket sales. So you can donate 10, 20, 40, euros, and sponsored them, and give them a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of hope. So are you a worldwide syndicated television show? Like touch on tech - maybe you're Jimmy Fallon maybe you're Conan O'Brien. What are you going to do now that you have to work from home? Well you grab your Skype, you grab your Zoom, you grab your iPhone and you just do a show. You do your own opening credits, you have your kids writing-up what's gonna happen in between. Going to be fascinating and interesting. How you gonna fit the roots in there? That's  what I want to know. So with all this working from home stuff, how do you actually get your gang together? What if you want to actually be more interactive? So Hubs is a project by Mozilla. There's a virtual room that you can have all your friends and co-workers come join; whether they have VR device, or they're pulling it up on their phone, or they're pulling it up on their desktop.Anybody with that link can get to this room. You can check it out, you can talk, you can have a good time, and hang out, you can look at virtual bottles of wine - that don't give you hangovers - and just have a good time like you normally do. So it's graduation season, except what do you do when you can't actually go to graduation? Some children in Japan figured out a way to graduate with their friends on Minecraft. They created their own graduation ceremony within the world of Minecraft and invited their friends.  So they just walked around on the stage, grab their diploma, and headed on out the door into the real world - but I think they were just going into middle school. So if kids can figure out how to get together, when we can't leave our house well, then why can't us adults do the same thing with all these other events that we had to put on hold? Like the Met Gala or even a fashion show. Let's do a fashion show within Minecraft. It may be a little weird, the legs maybe a little blocky, but at least you get to go see the fashions. So, for all these years I've been told that "video games are bad," but these kids show you just how good they can be. Well that's it for another edition of Not Touch On Tech, live from my guest - the garage at redpepper - so be safe out there and bye till next time. Perfect. 