 We are trying to provide a lot of student choice  and just in every way emphasize like, letting them   express their knowledge and mastery  through different modes. Um, so hopefully,   hopefully that can accommodate them. We've been  trying to provide things in different formats,   so we've used podcasts I think more  than before. Um, we did a podcast, uh,   on, uh, George Washington's chef; an enslaved  man named Hercules, and it was such a hit with   the kids. They loved exploring a text in that  different format. Um that was, that was one of   our best lessons we've done so, and that, and  you know that was great because it provided   an audio format to all the students in the grade,  and I think everyone was really excited about it. We have, kind of gone back to basics on modeling.  Um, in the simplest way. Just like that you know   as intervention teachers we know we model  everything and I have kind of put that at the   front I think of the grade team's mind. So,  even if it's something like copy and paste.   Copy and paste there's, there's actually a lot  to that. Um, and kids who have computers and more   tech in their households have know it and we can  assume that they know it, but not everyone does   and so if you proceed if, you tell a kid to  copy and paste the notes as an accommodation,   like you give them the notes you're like "copy  and paste it," um, and you don't teach them how   to do it with explicit modeling, then that  actually might compound the inequities. So   we're really working on modeling every single  tech skill and slowing it down in that sense. We've taught all the kids to use the  speech to text features, um which they   may not have been able to use before. Maybe  they've been taught once but they weren't,   you know, working often enough in, on  the computer to really practice it. So   I think a lot of kids are taking notes  with speech to text, which is exciting It just started with a couple of teachers using  Learning Ally and it became a really good tool.   Now everyone can access a full library  of books. That was a real concern:   How are kids for ELA classes going to keep doing  their reading, their jotting, their reading logs.   Um, and this solved the problem for us and  uh, yeah kids have been using it. Parents have   expressed that they're really appreciative of it  and it's definitely an equity tool at this time. 