 What for Actually Need 5G networks? Link to article in description October 1, 2018 in the world a grand thing happened and, without any exaggeration, a landmark event to which oddly enough (albeit quite explainable) is not given almost no attention tv busy with sanctions and speeches of some kind politicians and deputies. What was this so big event? Big event consisted is that american telecommunications company Verizon launched for how commercial use standard mobile network 5G. Technically, 5G in some places included and earlier like cellular Finnish operator Elisa Oyj started using this standard still in summer however all previous episodes should be considered no more than system tests at small sites. And Verizon Communications is GLOBAL company largest supplier mobile communications in the US and second in the world after China Mobile. So Verizon is already truly and therefore present “implementation day” 5G became exactly October 1 2018. What is the importance and the grandeur of this event? Just think, launched another new standard? Anticipating We explain such questions. Pro standard 5G written quite a few, therefore, not to jump on a hundred sites just give a link to Wikipedia that writes Pro 5G very detailed and surprising fair. In particular, praising advantages of the new standard Wikpedia says that 5G is able to transfer data with speeds of 100 Mbps. More or less experienced netizens immediately the question arises: why generally such a wild speed? You make a channel of 10 Mbps normal to bond was continuous, did not fall below that figure and millions gamers around the world are not threw a keyboard into the wall about the reason that Internet users killed them valuable craft or very important character. However no one is stable channels are not engaged. No, they need for some reason 5G with absolutely unnecessary users speeds. What for? A casket opens very simply. We read Wikipedia: “5G technology should provide higher throughput ability ... tra-ta-ta-ta .... that will benefit on the development of the Internet of Things. " That is the concept of computing networks in which the physical technology items for interaction friend with a friend could share data between each other. Other words all this 5G need not for mobile users phones, but in order to toaster and vacuum cleaner could chatting friend with a friend. At first glance, it is zeal for 5G developers to the provision of services household appliances seems pretty funny however, the Internet of Things (Internet of Things) is not only smart road pole and talking cool japanese housewife iron. The Internet of Things is also the so-called “smart dust ”, Smart Dust - nanostructured silicon-metal devices incomprehensible appointment and from incomprehensible manufacturers. Smart dust development is underway. already very long ago and about serious successes in this direction the press wrote another 20 years back, languishing in joy waiting for a radiant perspective. The simplest options smart dust is simple sensors and sensors that spontaneously on / off and transmit data about your place of stay. However, there are developments and more difficult. For example, in 2015, IBM announced the creation full chip size 7 nm. This is 1,000 times less than the diameter of the red blood cell. Their next chip should was to be 5 nm in size. true where are they going to embed it IBM has not reported. Probably, in mobile phones for viruses and microbes. In addition to the miniaturization of the corporation work in other directions, for example - in the creation of chips, which as a source energies are used by the surrounding their live cells. Same chips are created which make one or another cell types grow make certain cells die And all this is open, formal, only served as “new breakthrough medicine. " And this is only the top of the official iceberg since being created and microscopic devices working in a group then there are creators inside the body recipient information network capable of performing these or other tasks. Moreover, since all these devices are very small their implementation does not require from the recipient of some conscious action. Everything for some reason they expect tomorrow representatives of the New World Order put on people shackled and dragged into the line put stigma on his forehead. But it is not necessary at all. Microscopic electrical devices can be mixed in water and food can be sprayed from the plane in the form of chemtrails. Under the microscope, enthusiasts Of course, something can be seen: Chemtrains are found in precipitation strange kind of fiber find some items from foil. But who watched to a depth of 5 nanometers? In humans and microscopes such not. The only problem for “smart dust” is communication link Moty, that is, single smart dust items yet 15 years ago, quite tolerable contacted each other, passing information to few meters. Problem was transmit / receive data at a distance of a kilometer and more, for which they were offered new mobile protocols connections - approximately such as they brag today 5G developers. Thus, only later many years and now with the advent 5G standard mots can remotely controlled. For example, grouping in a special way cause bad / well-being from his master. Or even inspire him with some thoughts. The idea is absolutely not fantastic because as we noticed higher officially long been under development nanodevices that when released into the bloodstream look for those or other cells. And since chemtrails we breathe all the same as and we all do not process large magnets pieces absorbed food - some smart dust elements for sure there is in everyone's body. Until, true first made happy Americans where since October 1st those devoured for decades corporations will be somehow manage. Moreover, as noted by the American conspiracy therapists 5G is one very interesting and a very symbolic moment. September 30, 2018 according to Jewish calendar was the seventh day of the holiday Sukkot - Hosha'na Rabba, that is, the day when some higher spheres decide about the fate of people the next year. And on October 1, "Verizon Communications" massively launched 5G, apparently somehow hinting at this decision. If the hint is interpreted correctly, then this decision does not promise people are no good and now american conspiracy therapists anxiously guessing that with they will be. Speak out thoughts that using 5G and chemo route smart dust (as built in the brains of the monitor) im soon will show the movie about landing in washington good green aliens. So follow behind events more that 5G will be introduced soon everywhere, which means cinema will show with us. 