 Hi Sri. Thanks for taking a few minutes to talk to us today. When you're talking to your customers, what's top of mind for them these days? 5G is top of mind. 5G is now. 5G is front and center, compared to a year ago. 5G, what does it mean, in terms of network architecture? What the business models are? What kind of applications will be enabled thanks to 5G? Is it AR, VR, is it gaming? Is it massive sensors? All of those are things that our customers are looking at. And how has the landscape changed in the past year? Security is something that is significantly more important compared to even a year ago. You see a lot of news articles, whether it is Facebook privacy issues or some of the DDoS attacks. So customers are worried about how to make their networks more robust, more security proof. Just doing perimeter security is not enough. Firewalls are not enough. And they're looking to see how to protect bad actors from within the network. So that's front and center. Have you seen any change in the adoption of 5G by our customers? They're all getting ready to deploy. More in pockets of the world. Definitely in the U.S. And the two Olympic countries, in Korea and in Japan. And also in some parts of the world where big cities, take London, Northern Dubai, you see quite a few places where there is very active planning going on. And some of our customers are also very serious about being first to market, it's significant from a marketing perspective. And so, we do expect to see deployments happen by the end of the year. Also remember 5G is not just radio. It's also the entire network to enable some of the applications that are coming on with 5G, the need to think of the network end to end. Now, we introduced the FP4 silicon last year and several FP4-based products, and customers are in trial with those now. What kind of feedback are you getting on those? Exceptional! We publicly announced that we have over 60 trials on FP4. Every single trial that we've done so far has gone exceptionally well. There is very heavy demand for our products to be shipped, for products to continue expanding the trials that we have. And they are excited about the features that we are enabling, effectively, flexibility without any compromises. And so we couldn't be more proud and excited about our FP4 launch. Nice. Well thanks for taking a few minutes to talk to us today. Sure. Thank you.  Thanks. 