BusinessOverviewFiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of financial services technology. We are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the S&P 500 Index. We serve over 12,000 clients worldwide, including banks, savings banks, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, billers, retailers, merchants, and building societies. We provide account processing systems; electronic payments processing products and services, such as electronic bill payment and presentment services, card-based transaction processing and network services, ACH transaction processing, account-to-account transfers, and person-to-person payments; internet and mobile banking systems; and related services including document and payment card production and distribution, check processing and imaging, source capture systems, and lending and risk management products and services. Most of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are principally located in the United States where we operate data and transaction processing centers, provide technology support, develop software and payment solutions, and offer consulting services.In 2017, we had $5.7 billion in total revenue, $1.5 billion in operating income and $1.5 billion of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations. Processing and services revenue, which in 2017 represented 85% of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years and high renewal rates. Revenue from clients outside the United States comprised approximately 5% of total revenue in each of 2017 and 2016 and 6% in 2015.We have grown our business by developing highly specialized product and service enhancements, extending our capabilities through innovation, welcoming new clients, selling additional products and services to existing clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours, all of which have enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services and have created new opportunities for growth.We originally incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000.Our operations are reported in the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) and Financial Institution Services (“Financial”) business segments. Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.1Table of ContentsPaymentsThe businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and other companies with the products and services required to process electronic payment transactions and to offer their customers access to financial services and transaction capability through digital channels. Financial institutions and other companies have increasingly relied on third-party providers for those products and services, either on a licensed software or outsourced basis, as an increasing number of payment transactions are completed electronically as our clients’ customers seek the convenience of 24-hour digital access to their financial accounts. Within the Payments segment, we primarily provide electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, payments infrastructure services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. Our solutions in the Payments segment include: Electronic PaymentsOur electronic payments business is comprised of electronic bill payment and presentment services and other electronic payment services for businesses and consumers, such as person-to-person payments, account-to-account transfers, account opening and funding, and small business invoicing and payments. Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product, CheckFree® RXP®, allows our clients’ customers: to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; to view billing and payment information; to pay and manage all of their bills in one place; and to complete same-day or next-day bill payments to a wide range of billers and others.Our person-to-person payments solution, Popmoney®, allows consumers a convenient way to send and receive money while offering financial institutions the opportunity to generate new transaction-based revenue, attract new accounts and increase loyalty among existing customers. More than 2,500 financial institutions have agreed to offer our person-to-person payments services to their customers as of December 31, 2017. In addition to Popmoney, we partner with Early Warning Services, LLC to offer a turnkey implementation of its Zelle® real-time person-to-person payments service. Our turnkey solution simplifies the implementation of Zelle by providing interface, risk management, alerting, settlement and other services to clients. Digital ChannelsOur principal digital consumer and business banking products are Architect™, Corillian Online®, Corillian® Business Online, FINkit™, Mobiliti™, and Mobiliti Business™. Our Corillian product suite supports multiple lines of banking businesses and has been designed to be highly scalable to meet the evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new services by adding and integrating applications, such as electronic bill payment, person-to-person payments and personal financial management tools, to any internet connected point-of-presence. Our Mobiliti product suite provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services to our clients and their customers via mobile browser, downloadable application for smart phones and tablets, text message, and Amazon® Echo Alexa voice banking. We also provide the advanced capabilities of Corillian Online and Mobiliti as an outsourced service, known as Corillian Online ASP and Mobiliti ASP. Our Architect product suite supports online, mobile and tablet banking for retail and small business customers on a single platform. Each of these suites enables customers to complete balance inquiries, view their transaction history, make bill payments, and transfer funds between accounts and other people. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 2,300 Mobiliti ASP clients. In the third quarter of 2017, we completed the acquisition of Monitise plc, a provider of digital solutions, including FINkit, that enables innovative digital banking experiences for leading financial institutions worldwide.Card ServicesOur card services business is a leader in electronic funds transfer and provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We provide thousands of financial institution clients with a full range of credit and debit processing services, including: ATM monitoring, tokenization, loyalty and reward programs, real-time person-to-person payments, customized authorization processing, direct access and settlement for networks, and risk management solutions. We own and operate the Accel® network, which serves more than 3,000 financial institutions with funds access at over 500,000 ATMs and incorporates CardFree CashSM access as well as EMV™ chip and traditional magnetic stripe cards. Our Accel network point of sale support delivers comprehensive coverage of PIN and signature authentication support at physical and electronic commerce merchants across the country. Our digital enablement capability provides our clients’ consumers with mobile-based, customizable card management and alert tools that drive engagement and revenue for our issuers, and our risk management tools and portfolio management services are integrated with real-time fraud decisioning. 2Table of ContentsBiller SolutionsOur biller business provides electronic billing and payment services to companies that deliver bills to their customer base, such as utilities, telephone and cable companies, consumer lending institutions, and insurance providers, enabling our biller clients to reduce costs, collect payments faster through multiple channels, increase customer satisfaction, and provide customers flexible, easy-to-use ways to view and pay their bills. Our clients’ customers access our electronic billing and payment systems by viewing or paying a bill through a financial institution’s bill payment application, using a biller’s website, mobile application or automated phone system, leveraging www.mycheckfree.com, or by paying in person at one of more than 24,000 nationwide walk-in payment locations. These diverse options allow our clients’ customers to view and pay bills wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or in-house developed systems.Output SolutionsOur output solutions business provides business communication solutions to clients across a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, retail, utilities, and travel and entertainment. Our products and services include: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; branded merchandise; and office supplies.Investment ServicesOur investment services business provides technology solutions that enable financial planning, portfolio management and trading, model management, performance measurement, and reporting products and services to financial service organizations, including broker dealers, registered investment advisors, banks, asset managers and insurance companies that deliver financial advice and managed account products to U.S. retail investors. Our investment services business also supports global institutional asset managers and asset servicers with portfolio accounting, performance analytics, fee billing and revenue management, and post-trade processing technology. Our primary product, the Unified Wealth Platform, is a real-time portfolio management, trading and reporting system used by some of the largest brokerage firms and asset managers in the U.S. offering managed accounts.Risk Management and Other SolutionsOur risk management solutions business provides financial and risk management products and services that deliver operating efficiencies and management insight that enable our clients to protect and grow their businesses. Our Enterprise Performance Management and Financial Control Solutions offerings include budgeting and planning, financial accounting, and automated reconciliation and account certification tools to facilitate a robust assessment environment and efficient close process for our clients. These solutions are further complemented by fraud detection and mitigation through our predictive analytics solution, Fraud Risk and Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Management.In the third quarter of 2017, we acquired Dovetail Group Limited (“Dovetail”), a leading provider of bank payments and liquidity management solutions. The Dovetail payments platform helps financial institutions enable real-time payments and integrate into a broad range of payment solutions.FinancialThe businesses in our Financial segment provide financial institutions with the products and services they need to run their operations. By licensing software from third parties or outsourcing their processing requirements by contracting with third-party processors, financial institutions are typically able to reduce costs and enhance their products, services, capacity and capabilities. For example, the licensing of software reduces the need for costly technical expertise within a financial institution, and outsourcing processing operations reduces the infrastructure and other costs required to operate systems internally. Within the Financial segment, we provide depository institutions and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Many of the products and services that we sell are integrated with solutions from our Payments segment such as electronic bill payment and presentment, internet and mobile banking, debit processing and network services, and person-to-person payments. Our solutions in the Financial segment include:3Table of ContentsAccount ProcessingWe provide account servicing and management technology solutions to our depository institution clients, as well as a range of integrated, value-added banking products and services. Account processing solutions are the principal systems that enable a financial institution to operate systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution’s general ledger, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their customers, as well as to comply with applicable regulations. Although many of our clients contract to obtain a majority of their processing requirements from us, our software design allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduces a new client’s initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients’ ability to change technology and broadens our market opportunity.The principal account processing solutions used by our bank clients are Cleartouch®, DNA®, Precision®, Premier®, Signature® and TotalPlus®. The principal account processing solutions primarily used by our credit union clients are CharlotteSM, CubicsPlus®, CUnify™, CUSA®, DataSafe®, DNA, Galaxy®, OnCU®, Portico®, Spectrum® and XP2®. The Signature and DNA systems are available both domestically and internationally. In addition, we offer Agiliti™ as a software-as-a-service solution to the U.K. financial institutions. Account processing solutions are generally offered as an outsourced service or as licensed software for installation on client-owned or -hosted computer systems.Item ProcessingOur item processing business offers products and services to financial institutions. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide check clearing and image exchange services. Other solutions include image archive with online retrieval, in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements and fraud detection. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and related software products that promote change in deposit behavior to transition check capture from branch and teller channels to digital self-service deposit channels including mobile, merchant and ATM.Lending and Other SolutionsOur lending business offers life-of-loan digital products and services to financial institutions, including loan originations, servicing and default systems primarily for auto, consumer and real estate. In addition, our lending solutions include a full complement of professional services such as customization, business process outsourcing, training, consulting and implementation services. On February 7, 2018, we announced a definitive agreement to sell a 55% interest of our lending solutions business. We will retain a 45% interest in the joint venture, which will include all of our automotive loan origination and servicing products, as well as our LoanServ platform. The transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is targeted to close in the first quarter of 2018.Other businesses in this segment provide solutions for ACH and treasury management, case management and resolution, and source capture optimization to the financial services industry. Our offerings include Immediate FundsSM, PEP+®, and our remote deposit capture solutions branded as Source Capture Solutions®.In the first quarter of 2017, we completed our acquisition of Online Banking Solutions, Inc. (“OBS”), a provider of cash management and digital business banking solutions that complement and enrich our existing solutions. OBS products are integrated across a number of our account processing solutions and with other account processing platforms, and will enable our bank and credit union clients to better serve their commercial customers. In the third quarter of 2017, we acquired the assets of PCLender, LLC (“PCLender”), a leader in internet-based mortgage software and mortgage lending technology solutions, enhancing our suite of mortgage origination services to financial institutions of all sizes.Our StrategyOur vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships that are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework:4Table of Contents•Portfolio Management. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies.•Client Relationship Value. We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to integrate our products and services; introducing new products and services that are aligned with market needs; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support.•Operational Effectiveness. We believe we can improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and optimizing our facilities to create cost savings.•Capital Discipline. We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions.•Innovation. We seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry and enable our clients to deliver best-in-class results.Servicing the MarketThe markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on quality, security, integration with other product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, flexibility and value. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to identify and fulfill the needs of our clients.Product DevelopmentTo meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. Product development expenditures represented approximately 8% of our total revenue in each of 2017 and 2016 and 9% in 2015. Our development and technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems. Our account processing systems are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we use current software development principles, such as service-oriented architecture, to create efficiencies, and we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients.Intellectual PropertyWe regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and we utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security practices, and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. Our patents cover innovations relating to numerous financial software products and services, and we continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our ongoing innovations. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.CompetitionThe market for technology products and services in the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Outside the U.S., our primary competitors include global and local IT product and services companies, as well as payment service providers and processors. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand their product lines and services. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do and have substantial flexibility in competing with us, including through the use of integrated product offerings and through pricing. Competitive factors for our business include product quality, security, integration with other product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, flexibility and value. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. Additional information about competition in our segments is provided below.5Table of ContentsPaymentsThe businesses in our Payments segment compete with a number of competitors, including ACI Worldwide, Inc., Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (“FIS”), First Data Corporation, Jack Henry and Associates Inc. (“Jack Henry”), KUBRA Data Transfer, Ltd., MasterCard Incorporated, NCR Corporation, Paymentech, LLC, Paymentus Corporation, PayPal Holdings, Inc., Q2 Holdings, Inc., R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, Total System Services, Inc., U.S. Bancorp, Visa Inc., The Western Union Company and Worldpay, Inc. In addition to traditional payments competitors, large technology, media and other providers are increasingly seeking to provide or facilitate a wide range of point of sale and non-point of sale payments. These newer competitors include, but are not limited to, Alphabet Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., Apple Inc., Facebook, Inc., Intuit Inc., Samsung Group, Starbucks Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Existing and potential financial institution and biller clients, could also develop and use their own in-house systems instead of our products and services. In addition, many companies that provide solutions to the financial services industry are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines.FinancialOur products and services in the Financial segment compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. Existing and potential financial institution clients could also develop and use their own in-house systems. In addition, we compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions, including Black Knight Financial Technology Solutions LLC, Computer Services, Inc., Finastra Limited, FIS, Infosys Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Jack Henry, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE and Temenos Group AG.Government RegulationThe regulations that apply to the delivery of financial services are complex and evolve continuously. Except with respect to certain products and services, Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations applicable to financial institutions such as banks and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities and representatives of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the federal examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision of financial institutions. Also, state and federal regulations may require our financial institution clients to include certain provisions in their contracts with service providers like us, such as those related to security and privacy, and to conduct ongoing monitoring and risk management for third party relationships. In addition, independent auditors annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients and their auditors.In conducting our direct-to-consumer businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and Popmoney person-to-person payment services, we are directly subject to various federal and state laws, rules and regulations including those relating to the movement of money. In order to comply with our obligations under applicable laws, we are required, among other matters, to comply with licensing and reporting requirements, to implement operating policies and procedures necessary to comply with anti-money laundering laws, to comply with capital requirements, to protect the privacy and security of our clients’ information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations.Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), there have been substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including numerous new regulations that have imposed compliance costs and, in some cases, limited revenue sources for us and our clients. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, “supervised banks and nonbanks” as well as “supervised service providers” like us. In addition, federal and state agencies have begun to propose and enact cybersecurity regulations, such as the Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services in 2017 and the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Enhanced Cyber Risk Management Standards proposed by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 2016. New regulations could, among other things, require us to make significant additional investments to comply with them, modify our products or services or the manner in which they are provided, or limit or change the amount or types of revenue we are able to generate.6Table of ContentsEmployeesWe have nearly 24,000 employees globally, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, as well as employees with direct experience in payments, financial institutions and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance; computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management.The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry professionals. In assessing a potential acquisition candidate, we emphasize the quality and stability of the acquisition candidate’s employees.Available InformationOur website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s own internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.