Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Relating to Our Existing BusinessWe operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively.The markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. As a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients’ in-house capabilities. We expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including large technology, media and other companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited.The markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and increasing client expectations. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these demands or achieve market acceptance. In addition, the success of certain of our products and services rely, in part, on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to promote the use of our products and services by their customers. If we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, or if third parties insufficiently promote our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably.If we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.Failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. Our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. At the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.Consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients.Mergers, consolidations and failures of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. If our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. It is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Security incidents or other technological risks involving our systems and data, or those of our clients or vendors, could expose us to liability or damage our reputation.Our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. Any unauthorized access, intrusion, infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar incident could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients or vendors. These events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, 8Table of Contentsfinancial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, as threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the events that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we may not be able to prevent a material event in the future, and the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Operational failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our products or services could harm our business and reputation.Our business depends heavily on the reliability of our processing and other systems. An operational failure and the resulting service interruption could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. An operational failure could involve the hardware, software, data, networks or systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and could be caused by our actions, the actions of third parties or events over which we may have limited or no control. Events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. Interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. A prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue, and significantly impact our clients’ businesses and the customers they serve. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability.Our services are based on sophisticated software and computer systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. Further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems or with other programs used by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability.A heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business.Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), a number of substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the United States have been adopted, including those that establish the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, “supervised banks and nonbanks” as well as “supervised service providers” like us. In addition, federal and state governments and governmental authorities outside the U.S. have adopted or are pursuing numerous additional regulations impacting the financial services industry, including regulations related to cybersecurity and data privacy. To the extent this oversight or regulation negatively impacts the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. Additional regulation, examination and oversight of us could require us to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services; require us to invest additional time and resources to comply with such oversight and regulations; or limit our ability to update our existing products and services, or require us to develop new ones. Any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.9Table of ContentsIf we fail to comply with applicable regulations, our businesses could be harmed.If we fail to comply with regulations applicable to our business, including cybersecurity and data privacy regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability.Certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those jurisdictions where such licensure is required. In connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. In addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment, digital disbursements, and Popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the United States, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. The complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions.If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of NACHA and the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business.We are subject to rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (“NACHA”) as well as card association and network rules governing Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover or other similar organizations, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard enforced by the major card brands. The rules of NACHA and the card networks are set by their respective boards, and the card network rules may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. If we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. The suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, or any other action by the card networks to restrict our ability to process transactions over such networks, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others.Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. If the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. If we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. We may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. Any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel.Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position.Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. We actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. Agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.10Table of ContentsAcquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations.A major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. We anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. In addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources.These risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges.We may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements.We have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. In connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. Our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. Our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. Our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients’ demands.Our business may be adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions.For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. Given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. A prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability.If the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could cause us to modify current estimates about the impact that it will have on us, which could negatively impact our anticipated earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax code by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial-style tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Our financial results for 2018 included additional income tax expense of 11Table of Contentsapproximately $19 million resulting from new interpretive guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service. Further analysis of this complex legislation or future regulations or guidance from the Internal Revenue Service, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board could cause us to adjust current estimates in future periods, which could impact our earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.  Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations.Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 70% of our total assets at December 31, 2018. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. In addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations.Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations.As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $6.0 billion of debt. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms.Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with First DataThe merger is subject to a number of conditions to our and First Data’s obligations to complete the merger, which, if not fulfilled, or not fulfilled in a timely manner, may result in termination of the merger agreement.Our and First Data’s respective obligations to effect the merger are subject to the satisfaction at or prior to the effective time of the merger of the following conditions: •First Data’s stockholders must approve the consummation of the merger;•our shareholders must approve the issuance of shares to First Data shareholders in connection with the merger;•the shares of our common stock that will be issued in the merger must have been approved for listing on NASDAQ;•our Form S-4 registration statement filed in connection with the merger must become effective under the Securities Act of 1933 and no stop order suspending its effectiveness may be in effect;•no injunctions or decrees by any relevant governmental entity that prevent the merger may be outstanding; •all requisite regulatory approvals, both antitrust or otherwise and both U.S. and non-U.S., must have been obtained;•subject to certain exceptions and materiality standards provided in the merger agreement, the representations and warranties of the other party must be true and correct;•the other party must have performed or complied with in all material respects all of its obligations under the merger agreement;•each party must have received a tax opinion from its respective counsel to the effect that the merger will constitute a “reorganization” under the Internal Revenue Code; and12Table of Contents•our board of directors must have adopted amended by-laws and we must have taken all other steps necessary to effect the governance structure of the combined company as contemplated in the merger agreement.Many of the conditions to completion of the merger are not within our or First Data’s control, and we cannot predict when, or if, these conditions will be satisfied. If any of these conditions are not satisfied or waived prior to October 16, 2019, which date may be extended once to January 16, 2020, and extended a second time to April 16, 2020, it is possible that the merger agreement may be terminated. Although we and First Data have agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to complete the merger as promptly as practicable, these and other conditions to the completion of the merger may fail to be satisfied. In addition, satisfying the conditions to and completion of the merger may take longer, and could cost more, than we expect. We cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent them from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger may adversely affect the cost savings and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the merger and the integration of the companies’ respective businesses are completed within the expected timeframe. There can be no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained, or obtained prior to the termination date.The merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from domestic and foreign regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us following the merger, or, if not obtained, could prevent the completion of the merger.Before the merger can be completed, waiting periods must expire or terminate under applicable antitrust laws, including the HSR Act, and various approvals, consents or clearances must be obtained from certain other U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. In deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant authorities will consider the effect of the merger on competition in the case of competition authorities and a variety of other factors, in the case of other authorities. Although we and First Data have agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts to make certain governmental filings and, subject to certain limitations, obtain the required governmental authorizations, as the case may be, there can be no assurance that the relevant authorizations will be obtained. The governmental authorities from which these authorizations are required have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. The terms and conditions of approvals that are granted may require that the parties divest certain businesses, assets, or products prior to or after the closing of the merger or impose requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions on the conduct of us following the closing of the merger. At any time before or after completion of the merger, notwithstanding the termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, the U.S. Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission, or any state or foreign governmental entity, could take such action under the antitrust laws as each deems necessary or desirable in the public interest, including seeking to enjoin the completion of the merger or seeking divestiture of substantial assets of ours or First Data. Private parties also may seek to take legal action under the antitrust laws under certain circumstances.Under the terms of the merger agreement, subject to certain conditions, both parties are required to use reasonable best efforts to obtain all of the foregoing authorizations or approvals. Notwithstanding the foregoing, “reasonable best efforts” does not require us in connection with obtaining Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance or any other approval required pursuant to any other antitrust or competition law in the Unites States to (i) defend any lawsuit or challenge any other action by any governmental entity adversely affecting the parties’ ability to complete the merger, (ii) sell, divest or otherwise encumber any asset or business or (iii) agree to any limits or restrictions on certain actions.There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions that would delay the completion of the merger, impose additional material costs on or limit the revenues of us after the merger, or limit some of the cost savings and other benefits that we expect following completion of the merger. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that any such terms, conditions, requirements, limitations, costs, or restrictions will not result in the abandonment of the merger. In addition, disruptions in government operations, such as the recent shutdown of the U.S. government, could cause delay in obtaining approvals or increase processing times. Any delay in completing the merger or any modification to the merger currently contemplated may adversely affect the timing and amount of cost savings and other benefits that are expected to be achieved from the merger. There can be no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained, or obtained prior to the termination date.13Table of ContentsFailure to complete the merger could negatively impact our stock price and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.If the merger is not completed for any reas