 I think that outsourcing is the smartest, coolest way to grow your business, scale your business and give you back your freedom. If you have been sitting on the fence for way too long, procrastinating about whether you should hire somebody whether you can afford that person on your team then I am gonna share with you all the amazing benefits of outsourcing. Not really I'm just going to share a couple with you to convince you that you need to start hiring today. So first off when you outsource you aren't giving up all your control in the world. What you are doing is saying I have better things to be doing with my time. Now the question that I often get from people is what should I start outsourcing? How can I delegate? What do I know that I should be giving over to those people and then how can I get them integrated into my team as quickly and seamlessly as possible. Well I am here to save your day or maybe just make your day and show you how easy it can be. First off I want you to draw up your four lists to freedom. Now credit to Chris Ducker for his three lists of freedom and I've added one more column on. Simply grab a white piece of paper or a white board or your notebook and draw four columns then a nice horizontal bar. In the top left you want to write things I don't like doing and the second one you want to write things I can't do and the third one you're gonna write things I shouldn't be doing and the fourth one you're gonna write things I love doing. Now luckily for you I have got an awesome template that is free to download below this video go and check it out and grab the link. But in the mean time the minute you start filling this out you will be surprised at how quickly you can fill out the things that you don't like doing, you shouldn't be doing and you can't do. For example I am NOT a developer or a coder so I can't do coding I can't create my own WordPress sites from scratch that's what I hire other people to do. What I don't like doing is transcriptions or anything kind of laborious or super detail orientated so those are the first things that I usually delegate to people who are much better than me. Things that I shouldn't be doing for example is editing my own videos and podcasts. Thanks Rolly because you are so much better than me. These would look so different if I was doing it. So they go on my list and slowly but surely you build up the stack of tasks that you could actually delegate today and in the fourth column this is the one that people forget the most and I've kind of put it in there just to remind you, all the stuff that you should be working on. Maybe you love speaking, maybe you love client meetings, maybe you actually love doing your accounting (you strange strange person you) I'm just kidding. I really love it now that I've got zero but I digress. In that column is all the things that you love to do in your career or in your business and those are the things they're gonna make you look at the other three columns and go I need to outsource Natalie and I know you do. So once you have those four list to freedom now you get to go on to upwork.com. I'll place the link below this video has millions of freelancers worldwide who have the skills, the talents and the abilities that you need. You can hire them part-time, full-time, on a contract you can set your budget so they never go over it. There is no excuse for you to say I don't have the time, I don't have the money, I can't afford that person and I don't think anybody has the abilities to do this specific thing. There are totally so many amazing people out there who can do it for you. Imagine how great you're gonna feel when you've got a lot of those things off your plate so you can focus on the things that you love. So luckily for you because this is a little bit more than just one video to share with you how, I've created an entire course called Outsource like a rockstar where I show you how to hire the perfect person for your team in 30 days or less but I go into much more detail than that, I show you not only how to do that four list to freedom but then how to write your ideal role description, how to figure out which candidates are best, how to interview people quickly and efficiently, how to get somebody doing some of your jobs very quickly, I'm talking within a day you can hire somebody and have them start doing some of the work that is holding you down, is stressing you out, is making you anxious and then from there how to build in the right people that you need on your team and how to train them easily and quickly so that you don't have to be doing it all and then how to get them to create their own tasks and write up their own standard operating procedures and processes so that you don't have to and the outcome of this is you'll have this amazing team like I do around the world who are highly capable and get the work done that I frankly don't need to be doing anymore so I can focus on serving you in the best way possible. So once again NatalieSisson.com/outsource Check out the course and if you don't want to do that yet grab the four list of freedom the free template just below this and get started on getting it out of here onto the paper and then hire the person who can start taking over some of these tasks for you. You deserve to reclaim your time and reclaim your freedom. Yes! Freedom! Okay, off you go! You should be doing it already, just below the video and if you like this, like it with a thumbs up, share it with a friend who definitely needs to get some that work load off their plate and hire smart, capable people. I'm Natalie Sisson I'm your fellow freedomist. Tune in every week for more hacks on your business, mindset and lifestyle and how to have more freedom. 