 Hello, my name is Debbie Fowler and today I would like to talk about what are virtual assistants and how to find them. But before I do please subscribe to my channel and click the bell to be notified when new videos are posted. What are virtual Assistants and how to find them In this era of the Digital Age, more and more people are turning to the Internet to increase their marketing exposure. The problem? Every day the way to use online marketing seems to grow exponentially. As an entrepreneur or small business owner, how do you find the time to run your business, increase your productivity, have a personal life, and keep up with the ever-evolving online marketing field? Well The short answer? Well you don't. You hire someone to do it for you. Enter the Virtual Assistant or VA. Who are Virtual Assistants? Virtual assistants are home-based, skilled professionals, offering businesses, and entrepreneurs support remotely instead of within the traditional office setting. Communication is usually done via email, phone, or even face to face services like Skype. So What type of support do Virtual Assistants Provide? Back when remote assistants first came on the scene, the majority of their services focused on administrative tasks that were similar to an executive assistant or a secretary. And those were just done from home. However, with the growing number of virtual assistants available, their offerings are now variety of tasks, and thanks to the incredible increase in popularity of Social Media Marketing and other Online Marketing, specialists in that area have become easier to find, and they are extremely beneficial to have working with you. So A Few Things to Consider When Hiring a Virtual Assistant When you choose to hire a virtual assistant first thing you'll want to determine is whether you want them to be an employee or a self-employed contractor. There are pros and cons with each arrangement. When you hire an employee, even a remote one, you'll need to provide any benefits that your other employees receive, based on their employee status, ie: Full-time, Part-time, or hourly, as well as add them to the regular payroll. If you choose to work with independent contractors or freelancers you will have none of those responsibilities. But, you will have little control over what hours they work or be able to demand when they can be available. So Where Do you find a Virtual Assistant? Here's a list of 10 places you can find on the internet that provide freelancers and businesses a way to find a Virtual Assistant 1. 24/7 Virtual Assistant 2. Assistant Match 3. eaHelp 4. Fancy Hands 5. Freelancer 6. FlexJobs 7. People Per Hour 8. Upwork 9. Virtual Staff Finder 10. Worldwide 101 Hiring a virtual assistant will leave you with more time and energy so you can focus on the other aspects of your business. So if you are unsure of where to go to hire an VA, or you are just not sure about the service, then check out Virtual Assistant Assistant for reviews of the best virtual assistant companies. I will put a link in the description below along with all the places you can find a Virtual assistant. Hiring a Virtual Assistant can defiantly take Your business to the Next Level so if you are feeling overwhelmed then I suggest you check out places you can hire someone to take care of the tasks that are consuming all of your time. I hope you enjoyed this video please don't forget to like this video and leave your comments below and let me know what you think. 