 October is National Work and Family Month and the Virtual Vocations team is celebrating! Hi everyone, my name is Michelle and I am a social media specialist for Virtual Vocations, the largest hand-screened database of telecommute jobs online. Today, I'm coming to you to announce our third annual National Work and Family Month celebration, which we will be celebrating all week long from Monday, October 1 to Saturday, October 6, 2018. All this week, we're going to be highlighting the importance of work-life balance and promoting telecommuting as a solution for greater career and life flexibility, which Virtual Vocations members say is the number 1 reason why they want to work remotely. Also in celebration of National Work and Family Month, from Monday to Saturday we're going to be offering a 20% discount on all paid Virtual Vocations subscriptions and a 15% discount on all Virtual Vocations career services. That includes resumé reviews and rewrites, as well as add-ons like LinkedIn profile writing and cover letter writing, so if you want a revamp heading into your remote job search, now is the time to get it done! We're also going to be sending out a National Work and Family Month survey via email to all Virtual Vocations members, whether you have a free or paid account. Taking the survey will qualify you to win one of 5 prize packages, each of which includes a $100 Amazon gift card, a resumé review from Virtual Vocations, and a 6-month Virtual Vocations subscription. That's a $200 value, and all you have to do is fill out the survey that we're going to send right to your inbox. And stay tuned because all week, we are going to be sharing brand new content on our blog, including a list of telecommuting jobs that pay more than $100K per year and, of course, a brand new Employer Alert with employer-submitted job leads that you can apply to immediately for free, no paid subscription to Virtual Vocations required. All of that plus more new content can be found all week on our blog for telecommute professionals at VirtualVocations.com/blog. So don't forget to join us all week starting Monday, October 1 for our third annual celebration of National Work and Family Month. Myself and the rest of the Virtual Vocations team know how difficult it can be to find a balance between work and family life, but we're hoping that our celebration will help you find a remote job that gives you increased flexibility and a better work-life balance. If you want to know more about us and what Virtual Vocations does for remote jobseekers, talk to us! Feel free to leave a comment below or reach out to us on any of our social media; we're on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn and the social media team is always happy to talk with you. In the meantime, don't forget to check your email and fill out our National Work and Family Month survey so you can be entered to win one of 5 prize packages and remember to take advantage of the discounts that we're offering all week, including 20% off Virtual Vocations subscriptions and 15% off of our career services. You can find more details on all of this and links to the discounts that I just talked about in the description for this video, so be sure to take a look, and we hope you have an awesome National Work and Family Month! See you guys next time! 