 [Appointing your VA] We've got our VA. We've decided on our VA. Now the training. How we gonna train that person. First then I want you to go to on my PIN Learning Portal. And I want you to first of all do the what is it Property Management? The Quick Start. I want you to listen to all Quick Start and that will give you some sort of general idea of what this business is all about. There you are then. Then all of these apps, a lot of the apps they have online tutorials. And if they don't have online tutorials, YouTube. There's so much stuff on YouTube about those things. So you know, you should have the list of the apps that you will be using. I want you to go on to each website and do all the tutorials. And do it two or three times if necessary. But you need to have an understanding on how these apps work. So with that's said she or your VA could be him. And then you gotta look at time management making sure that they're actually working in your business for the 20 hours or how many hours you've agreed. And you gonna pay them at the end of the month. So two great apps, Time Doctor. What that does is it monitors cabled activity and it also takes screen shots every few minutes. So if you want you can then look at Time Doctor you can see exactly what they have actually been on the websites that they should be doing. It clocks out all the hours, at the end of the month it gives you a report of how many hours they've worked. That then integrates in to Transferwise which is a very good app for making overseas payments. So all you have to do is you transfer the money from your bank account online into Transferwise that does the conversion then sticks it in their bank account. Sometimes the same day, sometimes the next day. So how long does it take for you to do payroll at the end of the month? Two to four minutes. Now the next thing is you should have a process manual. So everything, for every activity that needs to be done in your process in your business. You need to have it documented. If you suddenly lose that person whoever it is that is doing these tasks for you, you need to get somebody else quick. That could pick up the reigns and can do it. Certainly in my business there's stuff that I don't know what the processes are. No idea, don't need to know it. You know she's developed the processes, she's working from home, we'll talk about that in a minute. So I've got her to write a process manual. SimpleMind an app, have you started using it? I did! I did! SimpleMind is an app which allows you to easily create these flow charts. I started using this because when I was going to presentations, PIN meetings and I find it really good to create mind maps. So mind maps are rather than writing down on a notepad, bullet points of you know key bits that you're picking out. Mind map actually is a way of funneling stuff down on a page the way the mind works visually. So you know if you will have a bubble in the middle which will be the subject of the talk and then off that you can create further bubbles. So when the presentation goes off in one direction you can create a bubble going that way and when it goes to the next direction you can create further bubbles. And then you can just look at everything in one go it's there on one page form. It's really really good. Perfect for presentations. Right. And it's simple? It's simple once you've gone through it, its easy. Very easy. I'm going to try that. So yes, this is using this process manual is using the same software. So this is the process for guests to sign up to the house rules which we do in Signable. And so here is just a flow chart of what each step is and there it goes for you. [Team Management] So managing, managing again the person, your VA whoever it is that is working in your organization, doing the stuff for you. Again it is a key skill and you know for a lot of people that had just been working on their own and never managed people before you can't expect to just suddenly be able to go out there and manage people when you don't know how to manage people. So this is something that you really need to focus on, work on. Empowerment without Management is Abandonment. So you must manage that person. It doesn't have to take a lot of time there are just key things that you got to do which will save you massive amount of time. First of all let go, again if you're used to working on your own, so many times I hear people say "Oh it's quicker for me to do it myself than to explain it". No it's not cause you keep doing it yourself. You explain it once and people think that somebody else can't do the job as well as you can. Well actually they might be able to do it better than you can. They might have new ideas, new ways of doing things. You know you take all that on board. Cause really do let go and put your trust in people. Because if you've recruited well and then that person ticks your boxes then you can trust them to do the job for you. You must be specific. Know this while we all like to have the ability, we are not mind readers. So they will only do what you have explained, what you've told. So you've gotta be able to communicate well. Be specific in what the instructions that you're giving them. Just gonna, I'm actually gonna repackage that bit of infomation. So be specific, I'm just gonna jump down to here, why not what. So it's actually not an instruction, an instruction you're saying this is what I want you to do. You actually gonna talk about what you want to achieve, why you want them to do something not what. So it's much softer, it's much gentler and you know they feel that you've got a common goal. You wanna achieve something together. And again it's more about, "I'm trusting you to do this for me." And people appreciate that, they will work so much better for you. Rather than you just saying, "I want you to do this." Explain what the outcome needs to be. So be specific but be specific in the right way. Have these to do list set up, you can easily do this in Trello, anyone can do this. So you've got your weekly things, your daily things sorry, your weekly things and your monthly things. So you know your daily things maybe going on to check emails. You know go through the inbox and see if there's anything there that needs to be flagged to you but this is gotta be dealt with. Your weekly things may be, so for me she goes on to Booking.com and AirBnB and checks room rates for me to make sure that we're not outpricing ourselves for that week. And then the monthly tasks so that could be generating the financial reports something like that. You wanna see would like to know how that property performed or you want somebody else to see on your behalf how that property performed. As I've just said let them work their way. It's back to that why not what. Don't say "Oh you must work this way", cause that's the way you work best. Let them do it their way. You know these are mature people that hopefully they've been doing the similar sort of job for a number of years. So you don't need to dictate them just explain what the outcome needs to be and how they get there is entirely up to them. So long as at the end of the day you get the job done. Can I just say doesn't that kind of contradict in terms of having a system in place where if that person leaves and somebody else has to step in and take over? So either do it their way and when somebody new has never done it before it could have something in telling them how to do it because so I don't think I understand that. Not at all. Yeah. Absolutely the opposite. So when were talking about systems, so here I am I'm using Trello. And if I was to recruit somebody else and they've been just using it one or three days and they like it and it works well for them nothing's set in concrete. Why can't I say, "Okay well you try this or use one of this, if that's what works best for you." Cause they do most of the work. If I you know, even it came to something like Supercontrol goes so much of our stuff goes to Supercontrol, so like she's become a real expert in Supercontrol. But if I suddenly ended up taking on somebody else and they'll be using Keygo or something like that. And they've been using that for the last year or two and they knew it inside out well they couldn't use the system so I could change. So if you have four VA's all have expertise on different things you'll have to choose or you'll have learn. Yeah. Have you have to do that Richard? I haven't yet no. But I would. Yeah. I'll be open to things. So what do you think? How do you think we should do this? Make them feel valued! When I'm talking to her about the properties it's not my such and such it's ours, it's we you know. So she always feels that this business is about her just as much as it's about me. And it's about the tenants and all the people that are within. Set up, check in, sign off. So setting up, you've got a task, you've got a project, what needs to be done. You know you have a conversation with them. You set up, you discuss, you communicate what the task is, what the project is that's the set up stage. Whatever it is, what have I done with this, setting up is your welcome pack. So you know discussed it with her what needs to be done and chat about it. Get her ideas. We then got the task set up after a week check in. How's it going? You know you don't need to be pestering them all day. If there's anything urgent she's gonna come to you, she's gonna put stuff on the Trello board. But just check in halfway through to see how's it going. Providing feedback. And at the end of it make sure you're happy with it, discuss it. You know you may want to make a few tweaks. But then at the end of the day great, fantastic, sign it off well done you know if you're pleased with that. Compliment them and again it's all about them feeling valued. I said monitor with Trello, anything as their going through the task, going through the project. You can use Trello to monitor what's going on, make them feedbacks, stuff to do or anything they're unsure about. So communicate and compliment. With mine we have about a two hour Zoom call once a week every Monday 10 o'clock. We just sit down, we go through the Trello boards, we go through everything, answering questions. And it's really really good just to have a two hour face to face time. But then that's it. You don't need to be communicating with them everyday. You know, you might use WhatsApp for something like that. Or just you know doing stuff via Trello board. Answering the questions. Do set your tasks on Trello. Don't be tempted to drop them a WhatsApp with the task on there or a text or an email. You know if you've got a system in place then use it. Don't just think that, I'll just do a quick WhatsApp saying something small. Don't. Stick it on Trello. And you know just make them feel valued. Compliment them, "Really pleased with what you've done, that's fantastic." So yeah, that's it. Any other questions? Bravo! [Applause] [Who I Am] So you all probably know this is all about me. My background what you need to know etc. So I first got involved in buy to let back in 1994. Became an accidental landlord. At the time I was living with my wife in a one bedroom flat. My wife became pregnant, we had a baby. Couldn't sell the flat so I decided to rent it out and there I was a landlord. That was it for the next six years, six-seven years. I was just self managing that property. I didn't really think about buying any more property, didn't think I could buy more properties to be honest. Even though I have the means. And then I was watching a tv program about interviewing a landlord who had 40-50 properties up north. For those people that live up north we can talk about Manchester area. When he was asked how he managed to build such a large portfolio he explained that all he did was when he gets some equity in a property he would release that and then he goes and buy another one. So that was my golden moment. That's called momentum investing. So I started momentum investing at that point and I release the equity and that one little flat that I had got two more. And continue to that over the next few years. In 2007 we have all see have the, financial crisis, excuse me. The financial crisis came along. And so at that point I stopped buying properties. And just continued to manage the small portfolio that I had. And that way I can continue then, I've actually not bought any properties since then. I then intended really to focus my attention on my corporate career. Which you know have gone quite well. I was a key player in the largest audio-visual company in Europe. My job was to - the company itself we installed audio-visual facilities into big corporate offices, banks, solicitors, large corporations. A lot of those companies we would do projects all over Europe, banks like JP Morgan, those sort of companies. And my job there was to negotiate and deal with the major contracts. The last job that I've finished on, I was working on it for 2 or three years. And it was a project for UBS Bank their new office down in Broadgate City. And that was a 13 million pound contract. You know I was used to dealing with the sort of big numbers. I think I was marching through that project for UBS, it was quite draining. And I've started to lose my mojo, I was also getting older, there are a lot of younger guys snapping at my heels. That had a lot more energy than I did. And I started to really lose my mojo. And you know I wasn't really happy in the job that I've enjoyed for years and years and years. I found it was pulling me down. And so I thought well you know really I need to start doing something else as well. I went back to property and I thought I'm gonna start building up some more property and re-focus a little bit more on that. So I went on to Master Mind Accelerator some of you guys may have gone as well at the end of 2016. And after that weekend I made the decision, it was two decisions. One I was gonna get out of rat race and the other was that I was gonna sign up for Master Mind 23. So that's what I did. Also during 2016 I went to my very first PIN Meeting. And as you all know PIN Meetings they have the prize draw and on that first meeting I won that prize draw. And that was to attend a one day workshop in London run by -- Which is all about serviced accommodation. So I went on that and I was really getting excited about serviced accommodation. And I thought I'm gonna apply this to all my properties. Did that and it went great so at that point I sort of got hit by the serviced accommodation bug or bitten by it actually saying. So having made that decision also I was gonna give up the corporate career. I started to read lots of books, magazines regarding property because I was been out of it for so long I didn't know the strategies or what was going on. I started listening to a lot of podcasts and in particular progressive if I can say that word. [Laughing] They have some very good podcasts at the time. And they were very much teaching people how to work on their business and not in it. And the secret, the key to doing that is to leverage your time. And the way you leverage your time is to put in place systems and gatekeepers. So systems being apps, that are on your phone or on your computer. Gatekeepers are the actual people. So anything that you don't have to do yourself. Find somebody else to do it if their hourly rate is lesser than yours. And we all know that you got quite high hourly rates. 