 [Gatekeepers] Yeah there's other things that you probably want to have in place first. So an answering service. And I use Armchair PA. Probably a lot of you - What do think of alldayPA? I don't use alldayPA. Oh okay I use Armchair PA. Oh Armchair. I use Armchair PA. I do know though that with both allday PA and with Armchair PA you could give them a script. So you know if its a tenant that rings up they can ask them qualifying questions. So they'll just answer the phone. "Hello this is Richard Evans' office ." person says "Oh yes I've seen the ad on Gumtree and I'm interested in arranging with you..." They'll ask the key questions like okay. "So when do you want to move in? what's your budget?", blah blah blah. Capture that little bit of information and you know they'll just put it on an email and get it out to you. So you know you've already got the prequalifying, they will also set up for you different numbers. So you know for my Luton properties I have an 01582 number. But it goes through to them. I have a 033 numbers as well. So you know they'll take care of all of that setting up your numbers and allocation geographical numbers for you. alldayPA the same and another big one out there that I don't know very much about it is Moneypenny. But I'm sure it goes very very similar in the service that it offers. Peopleperhour and Fiver they have great websites if you've got small projects to do. Particularly I find with design stuff. So Peopleperhour I've got a lady there who I put all the work through her. But I put it through Peopleperhour website. With these, if you've got a project you post the details of the project on the website. And people will then comeback and they will bid for your actual project give you a price and what they could do. You check out their credentials and then decide if you want to engage with them. Now often these people are located in, in India or you know the far east outside of the UK. Some are within the UK as well. But you will find that outside of the UK, far east, people who live in the far east their wages are a lot less per hour. So you get very very good pricing to do your uhm, I could say so when I first started doing this I posted a job it was to do some design work, design some logos, build website for me to do all that, it's great . She's designed you know the template for the presentation I'm making today. And I just give her all my design work. And it works really well. NoLettingGo and again is other services out there when it comes to checking tenants in and out. And doing itineraries. I thought it was said "Flew on time!" It flew by! [laughing] So NoLettingGo for about a £100 they will go and they will do the inventories, they'll check the tenant in and everything. It's money well spent especially if your property is some distance away. They're a nation wide company that work through franchise agents. And then Virtual Assistant. So were gonna now talk about how to work with a Virtual Assistant, how to recruit them and work with them on an ongoing basis. So your Virtual Assistant could be based in the UK or again they can be based outside of the UK. When I first decided to get a VA I actually decided to get two VA's. I was gonna have one lady who was based in the UK and she was very much gonna do the social media stuff and also manage my outside of the UK VA. And that went horribly wrong. She was £15 an hour and it was more like I was working for her than she was for me. I couldn't never get a hold of her. [laughing] At end of month I got an invoice for £300 for social media and I thought "What have you done exactly?" Apart from ignore my telephone calls. [laughing] So that relationship came to an unfortunate end. [Task List] And I now just have the one that's working for me and she's a lady that's based in the Philippines. Does she do accounts? Yes. And Xero reconcilation? Yes she does every - this is what she does for me. Everybody's list would be different. But yes she does my CRM admin. She uses my arches, Arthur, Landlord Vision, Supercontrol she does all of that. Accounts reconcilation again I said I'm using Xero. She does all of those account reconcilations. And did she know Xero before? Nope. You? Someone thought her? I will come on to that in a second provided gives me enough time. [laughing] She's got the room so were good to go. [laughing] And so financial reports with Xero at the end of the month you can generate a report for every property. So she does that she sends me the report. Social media post you know I get my VA to that. She goes out uses a bit of software don't know what it is. It searches for interesting articles on property or what's happening. And she posts that on social media on you know the business channel that I've got on Facebook, you know those business types Facebook stuff. You know this here today, I'll send her a Whatsapp with a photo saying stick this on social media I'll just put the words in. And then she'll put on Twitter, she'll put it on Facebook, she'll put it on Linkedin and anything else that I might be using. Ordering of supplies. So she'll put the viewings for me when we get inquiries. She'll book meetings and generally manage my diary. The tenant applications so she'll manage that whole process. When I'm taking on a new property she'll do transferring of utilities, and that's filing, counts the tax you know everything else. Every week she - She's a darling! [laughing] Every week she goes on to Booking.com and AirBnB and checks the rates for similar properties to see what they're doing. So we make sure that every week were you know were gonna have the right price for the market. Does the same on Rightmove, Zoopla etc. she's looking for deals on those. Yeah posting rooms on portals. She develops the welcome packs for me. I actually now have gone over to having a electronic tab called Yourwelcome. Which for the service accommodation sites. So when somebody walks in to the property they've got this iPad thing and it gives them all the local information, places to visit, wi-fi codes all of that sort of stuff. What site is it? Yourwelcome. So service tickets so you know tenants they're gonna stick them to the Aikidesk she'll manage those service tickets. Registering deposits, I use mydeposits she deals with that. She updates websites for me. Does general calls from some of the emails checks and responds to stuff. [Recruiting Your VA] A lot of this can be avoided on how you recruit. And obviously I've got a lot of experience in recruiting people and interviewing people. And I guess for some people here you might not have that experience. So it is really key. So I'm just gonna give types of, some tips here on this. So as we said so first you've got to develop your task list and know exactly what you want from your VA before you start working with them. You've gotta then look at the CV's and see what these people are valuable at. And make sure, they don't have to know Xero. They don't have to know you know about channel managers or anything like that. Just see if they can do the roles similar to the sort of role that you've done and use various different bits of software. You know if you spend 9-5 of your time making presentations you want somebody that can put together powerpoint presentations. You gonna go through that task list and know exactly what you can let go. Cause the task list is not actually about what you just gonna delegate its what needs to be done in your business. And when I first did my task list I actually did it on an excel spreadsheet I listed out every single thing that needs to be done. And then I had three columns, four columns actually. One was me, one was the VA that's gonna be UK based but went horribly wrong. One was my new VA that I didn't have yet that's gonna be based in the Philippines. And the fourth one was actually a cause you probably know we've got a joint venture partnership. And so there were stuff going on in our business that needed to be delegated to him. So I had that all in a spreadsheet and then of course when it came to recruiting I could just hide the task that were anybody outside of who I'm sending it to. And so you know the UK VA she got a task list that was just for her and etc etc. Understand exactly what task you're gonna delegate and who you're gonna delegate them to. Then I did, I did Skype interviews once they gave me a shortlist of I think I have four, four candidates that she thought would be suitable. I go did a Skype interview with each one of those. After that I shortlisted down to two. And I then did a second interview, well I didn't actually do the second interview I got my UK VA to do the second interview. [laughing] Because I will need another, I wanted to get somebody else's opinion. And it doesn't have to be, it could be your brother, your sister, your wife whoever. But getting somebody else to do it and just sitting on the corner, sit in the background and they have another whole load of other different questions that they're gonna ask. And then afterwards you can then have a chat and then you might then be able to narrow it down to one. But if you can't do a third interview keep going until you're really really sure that that is the person for you. If neither of those people you think are really really gonna fit then don't recruit. Start the process again. So you know you only wanna be doing this once. And you need to be sure that that person is the right person. You could if you want, I didn't do this, but you can give them a trial task to do. You know something that's gonna take two to three hours to see how they get on with it. And then you know monitor from there. Get them to do the Wealth Dynamics Test as well. Make sure you know they fit with what you actually need. So I guess, you know with most VA's were probably looking for a mechanic. So yeah you know, that's probably quite important to make sure they're certainly on that side of the Wealth Dynamic spectrum. And you can get that free from Genius U. [Appointing your VA] So now you've got your VA you decided who you want to be working for you. So now you really start to - Can we just have break now? If you want to yeah. I think really coffee or whatever cause its getting colder. It's freezing! Cause this is a very important topic. Okay so we'll come back. Richard this is absolutely fantastic. [Applause] [Chattering] So welcome back part two. Mentioned this to me during the break something that I haven't talked about that I should, should've talked about really. And that is password management. So when you're working with different people and your sharing your apps it's important. Your security's important. So you need to have seperate passwords for every single application. And you need to be able to share those in a safe and secure way with whoever's working for you. I use something called, these things are called password vault or something generic term. I use one called LastPass. There's others out there again Uh Richard Last? LastPass. This would generate a password for you for every single website. It will then store the password in a vault. And then when you go to log on, so it's a bit like a way Google can store passwords you don't have to remember it but it's much better and safer and secure way of doing it. I don't use Google I won't recommend it you do not use Google. But it says would you like Google to save your password? Don't do it. Use LastPass instead or something similar. It stores it there and whenever you go on to that website LastPass will just populate the password for you. You can see or by logging into your vault, you can see what the password is. But you could also share that password with somebody else. And when you share it you can opt for them not to be able to see what the password is itself. And so that's a really good way of giving them access to whatever what you wanna give them access to. But still maintaining your security. And then if and when they start or when they're no longer working for you or they leave the organization then you can just withdraw their permissions. 