 - [Vanessa] Hi I'm Vanessa Rosenblum President of Pro REA Staffing where we are passionate about fostering careers in real estate and growing real estate teams. Today I'm going to introduce you to someone who is near and dear to my heart. Today we're interviewing my executive assistant and office manager Liza. Now on this channel we talk about real estate teams and real estate assistants and obviously pro REA staffing is not a real estate office. However when it comes to truly world-class assistants few people can hold a candle to Liza. And there are a lot of parallels between the structure and the functions of a real estate team. And the structure of our search and placement firm. Now Liza and I have worked together for God over four-and-a-half years now. And when she first started working with me we worked in the same office in Hawaii and today we are literally a half a world apart. I live in Spain she lives in Hawaii and the rest of our team is spread out across North and South America. And despite the geography we are able to make it work and that's in a large part thanks to Liza. So I'm excited for all of you to meet her because I want her to share her approaches and her methods for keeping a busy diverse virtual team organized and systematized and focused on their most important tasks. Just like in a busy real estate office Liza is the conductor who keeps the trains running on time and our office cannot function for long without her. So if you're looking for insight into the daily life of a top performing executive assistant and you're looking for some strategies that you can employ in your own office. Whether it's virtual or a physical office then this interview is for you so let's dig in. (soft music) Hi Liza thanks for joining me today how are you doing? - [Liza] Thank you I'm well thanks for having me. - [Vanessa] Sure thanks, so before we dig into what you do on our team why don't you tell everyone just a little bit about your background. What did you do before you joined Pro REA Staffing? - [Liza] Definitely prior to joining Pro REA Staffing I worked for high as hotels for eight years. I actually started my career with Hyatt fresh out of college as a Human Resources Corporate Management Trainee. During my tenure with Hyatt I worked in human resources caring for brief stints and then a latter part of my time with Hyatt I was an executive assistant for a general manager. And I was actually fortunate to assist three high general managers in different parts for the country such as Phoenix, Arizona and Washington DC. I really enjoyed my time with Hyatt but made the decision to leave Hyatt it when I was pregnant with my first child. Because I really wanted to spend the first year of my son's life taking care of him. When it was time to return to the workforce I decided to look for opportunities outside of hospitality since the hours can be kind of crazy and for anyone who's worked in hospitality you could definitely relate. Luckily I came across your job ad for Pro REA Staffing and four and a half years later. I'm still part of this amazing team. - [Vanessa] And I'm just so glad that you are. So talk about your main roles and responsibilities at PRO REA. What do you do around here? - [Liza] A little bit of everything and you mentioned earlier in your introduction. I keep the trains running on time needless to say there's a lot that encompasses what I do every day. Each day is different for me depending on one projects I'm currently working on. And then any new items that I need to take care of. I'm more of a behind-the-scenes person at Pro REA meaning I take care of the housekeeping items such as sending out search agreements, invoices, posting job ads and setting up clients with onboarding tools. I make sure systems and processes are in place and updated. And I assist with a variety of different projects you know which can range from creating meeting agendas, updating our salary surveys, travel itineraries ex-cetera. You name it I have it covered but my main role is providing you and the teams and ministry support they need to be successful each day. - [Vanessa] Perfect so you and I have worked together in the same office and now we're virtual. So talk about that how you adjusted the way we communicate cause you can't hear me on the phone. You can't see my expression. So how did our communication change once we went virtual? - [Liza] Well it was so much fun we're going to same office with you by far and as you know we work directly with someone in office. It's much easier to have an open line of communication you can just pop your head into the office and ask a quick question if you need to. But obviously in a virtual setting you don't have that option. So communication is more imperative since you don't get to see each other daily. So you have to find other ways to communicate, so for example you know since you're the president I know firsthand you get tons of emails each day. So if I were to send you emails all the time to communicate I would just increase your email inbox. So technology definitely makes things easier nowadays instead of bogging down your email. So I would say you know instant messaging apps like slack or Google Hangouts is a lifesaver. So if I have a quick question I can just shoot you an IM and you can respond quickly. Which makes communication so much easier it's like we're working side-by-side even though we aren't technically. And I would say I would also encourage sending it ended a email or wrap up some way to your boss. I'm if you work virtually this gives your boss insight to what you're currently working on and how the day went as well. And also like you said you know we can't see each other's expressions. You can't tell each other's tone. So I would say a girl phone conversation doesn't hurt it's mostly a good way to catch up and touch base as well. - [Vanessa] Yeah I love that I love using IM because I know if you message me then that's my first priority when I get back to my desk. I always check that first because as a boss I know a lot of times if I don't respond nothing moves forward. And so keeping that away from my email which does get insane helps. And I think those summary emails at the end of the day are are so helpful and you also do a good job of putting things on my calendar to remind me. And just sort of poking me with things I need to remember and I'm sure you do that with the rest of the team too. Which you know in a you know in a office setting you would just swing by the office and say hey don't forget about blah blah blah. But we have to have a more formalized way of communicating that stuff. - [Liza] So it's the speaking of sort of staying on top of things I mean you keep track of about a zillion different systems and checklists. So and it's amazing to me because that was the hardest part of my job before you joined the company. So what are some of the strategies you employ to keep us from the railing with the systems. Because I think you are the best at keeping them on track and the rest of us are trying to emulate you. So what do you do to make sure we don't destroy things in the office? - [Liza] Well I am a systems and checklist guru as you know. I love love love folders, spreadsheets, calendar management anything has to do with organization. I'm all about it so as an executive assistant I cannot stress enough the importance of organization and structure for me using different online systems. Such as DocuSign for contracts or endorsing programs. Such as fresh books really helps me and keeping me on track. But the key for an office manager and executive assistant is to document how the system should be used by creating how to you guys or personally reviewing these systems with the team. These guides or training sessions can give your team the tools they need in order to use the systems in place. And along with the established processes it's important to track when to use the systems. This is as you mentioned earlier calendar management or tasks to-do list plays a huge part in this to be consistent. You should add reminders to your calendars or if you do that to-do lists bailing which you know can definitely help with all the details in one place. You know I'm relentless about it, put it on your account I hope thank you. And I am so for me it's important it's all about details details, details in my world. So if I need to verify things and ask clarifying questions I do so I like to know who, what, when, where, why ex-cetera. It just helps me figure out where I need to start and I find that actually helps the other team members. When I do ask clarifying questions it actually have them re-evaluate what they had me doing make sure that they've given me the most accurate information. It's almost like a checks and balance process you know. - [Vanessa] Yes I just have to stop you there and say yes like I hope every executive assistant on this call gets that. I cannot tell you how often I think I know what I want and I tell Liza but she asks me three good questions and I realize that I had no idea what I was really asking for. And she makes and sometimes it's frustrating like I like just just figure it out and then I realize no of course you can't figure it out. I haven't figured out what I want and so sitting there and having to answer like okay. I want it like this because of this and this is what the next step is going to be. This saves everybody so much time. And I'm sure there are so many assistants out there they get so frustrated because they feel like their boss is sending them on wild-goose chases. They ask for one thing and then they say no but I want something else. But then I want something else all of that can be fixed if when the when they give you that assignment the first time that you ask really good question. Now I want to circle back to something you touched on a couple minutes ago and that's documenting our system. So we keep all of our systems in Google Drive and it's basically our living operations manual. And that thing has evolved it's impressive. I mean it's like every time I go in there I'm just incredibly like impressed by how detailed it is. And how thorough it is. Talk about that. How did that thing get started and how often do you check it? - [Liza] Of course I think wait have an ops manual in place similar to how a bus line runs you know a bus line has established route you know departure, arrival times, bus stops locations ex-cetera. So all these systems are in place in order for the bus system work if it didn't then it would not work efficiently. So the same applies to any company once you established a mission and a vision then the procedures and protocol to achieve these goals need to be in place. So when I first joined Pro REA Staffing the team consisted of you and another recruiter. So obviously with such a small staff operations, procedures had not been documented. So when I came on board I knew that in order to synchronize our workflow and track our growth for the future. We needed to document the procedures and systems. So I just began creating tracking sheets you know for our placements creating email templates. And then working on those how-to guides that I spoke about. I'm to me it was important because documenting procedures and how do the detailed information structure is imperative to be successful in anything that you do I've personally believe. And also catalyst for documenting our procedures began as well when we transition into a virtual team as I mentioned earlier and also when we began expanding our team. I'm in order for us to have a smooth transition we needed to have the guidelines in place. So as our team expanded so did operations manual and the new recruiters really stepped up and also began to document how they use systems such as our applicant tracking system they were you know the pros and knew the ins and outs of the system. So when they were actually starting you know their manuals it really helped us with us as a team. Even one of our recruiter Sarah she really stepped up to train the recruiters as the company grew. And she created onboard and checklists for any team members as well. So for me I continually update and maintain the procedures it's important that you check them during your weekly. And also it's important to remember to check in with the recruiters or your team members the see how things are going on there and if needed you can always tweak some of the procedures in order to increase their productivity. So it's important to make sure that new systems are in place and that they're revisited and relevant for the job at hand. - [Vanessa] Yeah and you touched on something that has been so helpful for us. And I've been telling our clients to do this for years. The best time to create a new system or to document it Is when you're learning the system. Every time we've had new recruiters come in we've told all of them your responsibility is to look at the systems we have if there's not a documentation for something you're taught to do, then you need to document it and if you see anything that's out of date you know the software updates and steps sometimes change and workflow update the system. It's you know it's on Google Drive it's easy to update and they've been really good about it. So every time we hire someone new it has gotten easier and easier to get them on board. Because everything is laid out for them step by step. - [Liza] Exactly and I liked your point about that. Because when someone new is on board and they start documenting there's a fresh set of eyes. And so you know it's just so nice just have a breath of fresh air you know make sure officers are still in line with what we need them to be. - [Vanessa] Yeah I think it's hard for if you've been doing something for five years. And then you're asked to sit and document it. It's just sort as a nature to you that you sort of naturally skip steps that someone who is new in the process would think we're important to mention. So I think that's really helpful. So another part of your job and I talk about this all the time. Is your job is keeping me and the other recruiters on track. And we all have different personalities and we have different work styles. So what is your advice to other EAS who support multiple people who have different work styles. How do you kind of manage that I mean it's it's one thing to have to deal with one personality. It's another when you've got three or four different people who are going in different directions and need different things in different ways. How do you handle that? - [Liza] That's a great question over the years. I have worked in a lot of different office, environments. And to be honest some of those have been more challenging than others. I where that you truly need a servant's heart as an executive assistant. Assisting others isn't just a job duty you must really have a passion to help your team succeed. And no matter the task big or small. When working with different personalities in which styles you just have to remember the bigger picture. And begin with the end in mind every company has its goals. So at the end of the day we have to work together in order to reach these goals you were many hats. So you're essentially the peacemaker, the problem solver, the teacher and I can just go on and on about the different hats you wear. But in order to keep people on track sometimes hand-holding is involved and sometimes people have a harder time adjusting to systems that are rolled out. So you just have to remember to be an effective listener when dealing with your team members not just hearing what they're saying but actually actively taking into account the reasoning behind their thoughts. You know you have to just be more sympathetic it really does give you insight into their communication work style from that you can take a better approach to communicate with your team. For instance if you know a team member gets overwhelmed getting multiple emails addressing items any follow up. Maybe just hop on a call with them and review the list directly. Just hearing a voice on the other end especially when you work virtually. Sometimes make sure the easier and then also if you know a team member is a visual person make sure to include some screenshots when sending an email. So that he or she can see what you're referencing which will allow them to better understand what you're trying to communicate. And one of the most important hats I feel I wear is the team cheerleader. I found that grad and recognition are still important. And you can do this by highlighting the accomplishments of your team members. And appreciating their contributions this really does create an inclusive honest culture if you do so. - [Vanessa] Yeah I think that's so true. And I think they your servant's heart shows up even when you're holding us accountable. And I really appreciate that because and I'm admittedly the worst about this but you know there's something I need to get done or approve or whatever. And then I get busy and you have to ask me multiple times and I never feel like there's this Vanessa seriously and you might feel like that on your end. But I'm not getting that on my end and I appreciate that cause I feel like you've got my back. And I think every executive no matter what industry you're or where they are they need somebody who has their back. Because sometimes we are up in the clouds we're moving forward and we can leave a trail of chaos behind us and we need someone who's got our back and who cares about us. And is you know, we know that somebody's going to make sure that it's all going to be taken care of. And so you like being able to do that in a loving way even when the person you're supportive isn't cooperating the way they should. Is I think a really important part of the job and it helps both of you work more effectively together. If the the person who's out front know it's like trusts that somebody has their back. So I think that's really really key. - [Liza] Yeah when you say someone is your right hand your assistant it truly is. It is an extension of you they represent you. And so for me it's more of like you know care taking role. I'm like mama hen like I want to make sure you're okay. The teams okay so I'll always have your back. - [Vanessa] Thank you I wish I can give you a hug all the way from halfway around the world. Yeah so moving on let's see so one of the biggest complaints that I hear from clients when they call and they're looking for help with their search. Is that they want someone who is proactive. And you know they want someone who is out in front and that's a lot easier said than done. But you seem to have a good handle on this. So how do you how do you help an assistant who's feeling like they're reactive to everything that's going on and help them get ahead of the curve and feel more proactive in their role. - [Liza] Well definitely staying two steps ahead is the name of the game. You definitely have to answer this anticipate needs. My experienced admins don't need to be told what to do. They take the initiative and get things done. I take the baton and run with it so to speak. So for me three things I think that really stand out would be to be observant, resilience and engaged. For example I am constantly observing the calendar to see what's going on each day and in your future. If I see that we have upcoming quarterly meeting in two weeks I will go ahead and create the agenda two weeks before by observing what week coming down the pipeline. I can take control and stay on top of things ahead of time. Vanessa I know you think sometimes I can read your mind like a Jedi something like that. It's just because I anticipated what you were going to say or I anticipated what you need ahead of time. So that's actually kind of proof of proactivity when your boss really thinks you can read their life. - [Vanessa] Exactly. - [Liza] Yeah but also you have to be realistic you know even you know when I approach things proactively things don't always go as planned. And that's where the resiliency comes in for me. It can't it can be discouraging when I have a plan in place that doesn't work out. But I can't let that deter me from continuing to be proactive you know I have to take accountability learn from the experience. And approach things from a positive and optimistic mindset. You definitely have to be confident in your choices when you may proactive decision. And for me that goes hand in hand with being engaged. And you have to be invest in your role and passionate about what you do. It's easy to be proactive on a daily basis if you are. So it's for me a form of self motivation you know just that add abuse you need when taking initiative. Because sometimes you have to ask yourself. Why am I doing this? Then what more can I do proactive. - [Vanessa] And sometimes you have to take risks right? Sometimes you just have to make a decision and based on all the information that you have. And I mean our philosophy and you know this is I'd rather that you ask for forgiveness than permission. Because I just want people to move forward but that may not be true for every boss and obviously we've built trust over the years. But depending on the relationship and he has with their boss I mean I think a lot of times they just want the executive just want someone else to make the decision. Like just move forward we just push things forward. If it's not exactly perfect we can adjust course it's okay. But yeah I think just looking at what needs to be done and taking action is such a relief for an executive. Just knowing someone else's is there to do that okay. So one final question before we wrap up. So how do you maintain consistency even when things get busy? I'm always amazed that no matter how busy you are things that are supposed to happen on a Tuesday always happen on Tuesday. And you know the end of the month report always happens no matter what else is going on. How in the world do you make sure that you keep us consistent even when your day is maxed out? - [Liza] That's a great question as well. For me being transparent and keeping the lines of communication open and honest is of the utmost importance. You know that in mine I am in constant communication with the team to ensure that things are taken care of in a timely manner. And you know me I'm always sending reminders and asking for status for certain things. And I'll be the first submit that I can be so annoying I can be a pit bull what she wants to remind us all up. But I think it's important to be consistent, consistency is the key. It's my job to make sure the ball is not dropped and when it's the reflection or lack of communication or fault at my end at times. So I have to make sure that things are consistent and also getting the team on board also helps. And I think a weekly team meeting is essential you know / or affecting we have a weekly conference call, Google Hangouts and I think it's important that you meet with your team from an executive assistant standpoint. Because then you know what's going on and you can collaborate with your team. So for example you can discuss how you want to streamline a process or you can have a discussion to create a sounding board for new ideas which is a great way to get everyone moving in the same direction. It gets the creative juices flowing and then by doing so you build that camaraderie and that trust amongst the team. So that way that also builds consistency and between you me you know we have times of laugh on the conference call laughter is contagious with our group. So having that in the air it definitely makes you know work more enjoyable. But it also helps me make sure things are you know on track. And I think to be honest the biggest success as an executive assistant that I have is due to the pool we work with and the contribution they make on a daily basis and I say you put together a team of highly motivated and dedicated, like-minded individuals. So with that in mind you give the team the direction they need and we can just run with it. So at the end of the day my role in the most part is being like their compass they're on their own voyages. But if needed I'm there to guide them and with a system with information. - [Vanessa] Fantastic. Well we love you and couldn't do what we do without you. So thank you and for everyone listening if you would like to hear more interviews with top performing assistants. Make sure to check out the videos that I will add to the end card of this video or just go to the real estate assistant. And job seeker video playlist on our channel website. And if you're looking for opportunities in real estate if you're looking to make a career change make sure to check out Prorealestatejobs.com. That is our our real estate job board. We have 1,000s of real estate specific opportunities on there and then finally if you liked this interview please give it a thumbs up and remember to subscribe. So that you are the first to know when we post new interviews like this one. Thanks and I'll see you on the next one. 