 Our list of Top 20 Telecommute Jobs of 2018 is here! Hi everyone, I'm Michelle and I am a social media specialist for Virtual Vocations, the largest hand-screened database of telecommute jobs online. Today, I'm going to be telling you about our latest report, our Top 20 Telecommute Jobs of 2018. Each year, we use our own data on job search and application trends, plus growth and salary info from websites like PayScale and the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics to compile a list of some of the most applied to and fastest-growing jobs that you can find on our job board. We’re going to see growth in all 20 of the jobs on this list through 2026 — but the best part is: you can do all of them from the comfort of a home office like mine. The wide range of career paths available on this list mean that you don’t need fancy degrees, certifications, or decades of experience to work remotely — although if you have that, you can find success as a telecommuter, too! And working from home doesn’t mean you can’t make big bucks — in fact, several of the jobs on this list can pay six figures and NONE of the jobs on this list (or in our telecommute job database) are commission-only or quote-unquote “Start-Your-Own-Business” opportunities, so that means that you know you’re going to get paid for the work that you do. Plus, you can rest assured that all of jobs you apply to are legitimate because our team hand-screens each and every company that we post from. The bottom line is: if you’re interested in virtual work but don't know where to start, these are the 20 jobs you should be looking at. You can find hundreds if not thousands of openings for all 20 of these jobs on our database, which includes over 18,000 telecommuting jobs from over 13,000 vetted, telecommute-friendly companies. We created this list of top telecommute jobs because we want you to be able to succeed in your quest for remote work. So if you’re interested in getting started with telecommuting, or you’re thinking about switching to an industry that will be growing for years to come, click the link in the description to check out our list of Top 20 Telecommute Jobs of 2018. And if you’re still on the fence about taking the leap into telecommuting, or you have questions about remote work, we’re happy to talk with you! Feel free to leave a comment below, check out our blog full of tips for new and seasoned telecommuters at VirtualVocations.com/blog, or reach out to us on any of our social media platforms — we are on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and of course YouTube! Last but not least, don’t forget to check out our list of Top 20 Telecommute Jobs of 2018 — the link is in the description for this video and we really hope it helps you find the remote job you've been looking for! See you all next time! 