 - Hey everyone, Emily here. Today we're talking about how I was able to sign A-list clients such as Marie Forleo and Mel Robbins. (upbeat music) Bottom line on how I did it, they both came from referrals and so I have some thoughts on what that means. Referrals, number one, like, don't underestimate the power of referrals and the power of just, like, consistently putting your name out there as a very effective brand or service in your space. And then number two, consistent visibility. Because I have had people come to me six months after they've been following me and sign up as a client. Also what happens is people see you, they see you out there doing these things, that you get tagged in groups, you get this visibility and if you're consistent with it then you never know who might refer you to somebody else. So both of my A-list clients didn't come from some crazy funnel or crazy marketing strategy, all of them have come from referrals. And how do you get those referrals? How do you make sure that you're going to get referrals for people? It's always running your business from the highest level of integrity and there's a few thoughts I have on this. Number one, it means that you as the CEO, as the top of your business that you always own up to everything. There were many times where I was the one up at 1am as the last resort for my company, for my team, for my clients getting my hands dirty and doing the work. If you're not willing to do that it's pretty hard for you to grow and build this name for yourself, especially as a personal brand. Number two, it's making sure that you're very clear about who it is you're working with, so you don't say yes to people that you can't deliver. I learned this really quickly when I would say yes to somebody that was, like, "Yeah, I think I could do that job," or "I think I could market their things," or "I think I could do a good job "for them but I'm not sure." It always turned out bad, almost 100% of the time it turned out bad. If you do that too much you end up creating a bad experience for somebody and then your name is out there with a bad experience attached to it and they may share it with, you never know who they're gonna share it with. So this is crucial that you maintain that clarity on who it is you wanna work with, so that every experience that somebody comes into contact with you is a positive one and they're just spreading that word out there. And people will talk about you, so make sure that you create that positive experience and then you always run your business from this integrity of owning up to mistakes. Mistakes are going to happen, it's how you handle them. There was one time last year that we had a client and she paid us a good amount of money for her launch and the sales team that she hired made some mistakes, we didn't really make any mistakes but she wasn't seeing the results that she really wanted to see with her launch from many factors, I don't think it was a lot with the marketing, but I felt awful about it so I actually credited her an extra $1,000 to put towards ad spend to help her reach her goal and she thought that was amazing. She didn't quite reach her goal that year, but she stayed on with us and reached her goal the next year. We reevaluated her funnel, we made a long-term relationship and all of that happened because I was willing to adjust things a little bit for her to make it feel good for her and if I wouldn't have done that I know that she would've left and not not liked us, but not been super happy and, you know, not had a good testimonial to give us. So I've done that any time I feel like it's necessary, I just go with my gut and in return this creates relationships with people who then talk about me, who talk about me with their team and refer me and then I end up, you know, known as this top strategist. Remember though that it takes time. You're not going to start your business, create this crazy funnel and then sign A-list clients in two months. It was two and a half years before I signed Marie Forleo on as a client and I worked so hard to get to that point and then you bet we've given them the highest level of service so that they then go and talk about us positively. So it takes time, it takes work and it takes you as a CEO to own up to everything in your business. If there's a mistake that has happened with your team, we write it down, we have an error log, we write it down so that we can then look at what can we do better for the client? How can we better serve? We're always improving for that reason, to stay top of the list. And then we never underestimate the power of relationships. So I'd love to know what you do to try and build your name and create those referrals. I obviously have things like referral programs for clients, but I don't have this ninja secret weapon referral program because I only do things that feel good to me, that feel like they're coming from a very authentic, connection-based relationship so I don't wanna push clients, like, you have to refer me. What happens is they end up just doing it because they're so happy and satisfied with the service. So you have to look internally at how do you create the positive experience to then get your name out there and in the beginning it might mean you have to work really, really hard to prove yourself and prove your name. I had to do the same thing three years ago when I was not working with A-list clients, I wasn't even doing Facebook ads, I had to build up to that point with experience and prove my worth. So let me know in the comments if this was helpful for you. Share this if you feel like other people need to hear this message or tag a friend who you think this applies to. (gentle music) 