BUSINESSANSYS, Inc. (Ansys, we, us, our), a Delaware corporation formed in 1994, develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including aerospace and defense, automotive, electronics, semiconductors, energy, materials and chemical processing, turbomachinery, consumer products, healthcare, and sports. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we employed approximately 4,100 people as of December 31, 2019. We focus on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. We distribute our suite of simulation technologies through a global network of independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is our intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model. We operate and report as one segment.Our product portfolio consists of the following:PlatformAnsys Workbench™ is the framework upon which our suite of advanced engineering simulation technologies is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design (CAD) connectivity, powerful highly-automated meshing, a project-level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the Ansys Workbench platform enables Pervasive Engineering Simulation™.4Table of ContentsOur Workbench framework allows engineers and designers to incorporate the compounding effects of multiple physics into a virtual prototype of their design and simulate its operation under real-world conditions. As product architectures become smaller, lighter and more complex, companies must be able to accurately predict how products will behave in real-world environments where multiple types of physics interact in a coupled way. Our multiphysics software enables engineers to simulate the interactions between structures, heat transfer, fluids and electronics all within a single, unified engineering simulation environment.Ansys Workbench enables companies to create a customized simulation environment to deploy specialized simulation best practices and automations unique to their product development process or industry. With Ansys ACT™, our partners and end users can modify the user interface, process simulation data or embed third-party applications to create specialized tools based on Ansys Workbench.Our high-performance computing (HPC) product suite enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The HPC product suite delivers cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of our simulation software by supporting structures, fluids, thermal and electronics simulations. This product suite decreases turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.Refer to the section titled "New Product Offerings" for solutions added to our platform offerings in 2019.StructuresOur structural analysis product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help to deliver better and more innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts, materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities, all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems. We also provide comprehensive topology optimization tools that engineers use to design structural components to meet loading requirements with minimal material and component weight. We offer a complete simulation workflow for additive manufacturing that allows reliable 3D printing by simulating the laser sintering process and delivering compensated CAD geometries that ensure reliable printed parts.FluidsOur fluids product suite enables modeling of fluid flow and other related physical phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The suite contains general-purpose computational fluid dynamics software and specialized products to address specific industry applications.ElectromagneticsOur electromagnetics product suite provides field simulation software for designing high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software streamlines the design process and predicts performance of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits (ICs) and printed circuit boards (PCBs), as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive components and power electronics equipment, all prior to building a prototype.SemiconductorsAdvancements in semiconductor design and manufacturing enable smaller electronic architectures. Shrinking geometries, especially in the emerging 3D IC, FinFET and stacked-die architectures, reveal design challenges related to power and reliability. Our power analysis and optimization software suite manages the power budget, power delivery integrity and power-induced noise in an electronic design, from initial prototyping to system sign-off. These solutions deliver accuracy with correlation to silicon measurement; the capacity to handle an entire electronic system, including IC, package and PCB, efficiently for ease-of-debugging and fast turnaround time; and comprehensiveness to facilitate cross-domain communications and electronic ecosystem enablement.5Table of ContentsEmbedded SoftwareOur SCADE® product suite is a comprehensive solution for embedded software simulation, code production and automated certification. It has been developed specifically for use in critical systems with high dependability requirements, including aerospace, rail transportation, nuclear, industrial and automotive applications. SCADE software supports the entire development workflow, from requirements analysis and design, through verification, implementation and deployment. SCADE solutions easily integrate with each other and the rest of our product suite, allowing for development optimization and increased communication among team members.SystemsWe deliver a unique and comprehensive system simulation capability that is ideal for the design of today's increasingly automated products. This collaborative environment leverages our multiphysics, multibody dynamics, circuit and embedded software simulation capabilities, enabling users to simulate the complex interactions between components, circuits and control software within a single environment. These technologies provide a complete view into predicted product performance, which creates greater design confidence for engineers.3D DesignOur Discovery™ product family allows every engineer to benefit from the insight of simulation in their product design. The Discovery products range from early design exploration tools powered by interactive real-time simulation and intuitive geometry editing, to detailed product validation solutions utilizing proven flagship solver technology with easy-to-use guided workflows. These tools allow for design engineers of all levels of expertise to utilize simulation across the entire product design process and to work seamlessly with simulation experts using our flagship products for even more advanced analysis. OpticalUsing optical sensor and closed-loop, real-time simulation, our capabilities now span the simulation of all sensors, including lidar, cameras and radar; the multiphysics simulation of physical and electronic components; the analysis of systems functional safety; as well as the automated development of safety-certified embedded software. This functionality can be integrated into a closed-loop simulation environment that interacts with weather and traffic simulators, enabling thousands of driving scenarios to be executed virtually.MaterialsAnsys Granta products give our customers access to material intelligence, including data that is critical to simulations. Refer to the section titled "New Product Offerings" for additional discussion around our materials offerings.AcademicOur academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers, including associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various non-commercial products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. It includes flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. We also provide a special product at no cost to students that is suitable for use away from the classroom and in non-commercial applications.PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT We make significant investments in research and development and emphasize frequent, integrated product releases. Our product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management (PLM) systems. Our product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD, electronic CAD (ECAD) and PLM products, and the development of new products. Our products run on the most widely-used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.Our total research and development expenses were $298.2 million, $233.8 million and $202.7 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, or 19.7%, 18.1% and 18.5% of total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our product development staff consisted of approximately 1,500 and 1,200 employees, respectively, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines. We have traditionally 6Table of Contentsinvested significant resources in research and development activities and intend to continue to make investments in expanding the ease of use and capabilities of our broad portfolio of simulation software products.We recently completed the following major product development activities and releases:•In January 2020, we released Ansys 2020 R1, which streamlines product development lifecycles and helps boost product performance with enhancements to the interfaces, functionality and power of our simulation solvers. Among these advances is Ansys Minerva, a knowledge management application platform that delivers an integrated suite of Ansys tools, fusing simulation and optimization to product lifecycle processes across any enterprise. Minerva spurs collaboration within global engineering teams and increases data sharing to innovate product designs and reduce development costs. From improving product development with Ansys Minerva to running complex simulations with substantially streamlined workflows with Ansys Fluent to optimizing electromagnetic design processes with Ansys HFSS, Ansys 2020 R1 helps enable companies to pioneer innovations and create cost-effective designs.To leverage the combined benefits of cloud computing and best-in-class engineering simulation, we are partnering with Microsoft® Azure™ to create a secure cloud solution. In Ansys 2020 R1, Ansys Cloud™ introduced new licensing options to enable greater business flexibility. Companies can cost optimize cloud software usage by mixing elastic (usage-based) and traditional (leased or paid-up) licensing while accessing on-demand compute resources. In addition, within Ansys Mechanical, Ansys Fluent and Ansys Electronics Desktop, you can directly access HPC in the Cloud.•In September 2019, we released Ansys 2019 R3, which strengthens our autonomous vehicles (AV) solutions with the addition of Ansys Autonomy. Ansys Autonomy enables engineers to develop safer AV through advanced closed-loop scenario simulation, automated driving and control software development, functional safety analysis, and sensor, camera, lidar, and radar simulation. Among a number of other enhancements to our product portfolio, Ansys 2019 R3 also includes the SPEOS Road Library for Sensors Simulation, a comprehensive, retro-reflecting materials database, as well as updates to Ansys HFSS SBR+ that provide greater accuracy in predicting radar cross sections of large targets with curvatures.As fully autonomous vehicles edge closer to real-world deployment, operating safely becomes more critical than ever. AVs require rigorous testing in complex environments and under variable conditions. Physical testing would require billions of miles of driving or flying — a time-consuming, cost-prohibitive approach. Using simulation to virtually test AVs is the only viable option for validating systems safety and accelerating AV development. From sensors to virtual environments to artificial intelligence, Ansys 2019 R3 includes robust offerings that speed the safe development and deployment of AVs on the road and in the air.•In June 2019, we released Ansys 2019 R2, which accelerates, streamlines and simplifies the product life cycle through new functionalities. With the new functionalities, including new materials capabilities for structural analysis following the acquisition of Granta Design Limited (Granta Design), our simulation solutions accelerate collaboration, validation and verification, creating a reliable digital thread throughout operations. The release also includes a revolutionary Ansys Mechanical™ user experience, simplified simulation of complex electronics and a new Ansys FluentTM workflow that significantly speeds meshing of dirty geometries.New Product OfferingsOur 2019 acquisitions, each a leader in their respective fields, are intended to bolster our strategy of Pervasive Engineering Simulation. The acquired technologies offer solutions that significantly enhance our portfolio, providing solutions valuable to our customers.The acquisition of material intelligence leader Granta Design gives our customers access to material intelligence, including data that is critical to successful simulations. With Granta Design technology, our customers benefit from access to the world's premier system for managing corporate material intelligence and the market-leading solution for materials sources, selection and management. Ansys Granta MI is a leading system for materials information management in engineering enterprises. Ansys Granta Selector is the standard tool for materials selection and graphical analysis of materials properties. A comprehensive materials data library plus unique software tools enable engineers to use materials to innovate and evolve products, quickly identify solutions to material issues, confirm and validate choice of materials, and reduce material and development costs. CES EduPack is a unique set of teaching resources that supports materials education across engineering, design, science and sustainable development. Granta Materials Data for Simulation provides easy access to materials property data from within Ansys Mechanical and the Ansys Electronics Desktop environment.7Table of ContentsThe acquisition of Helic, Inc. (Helic), an industry-leading provider of electromagnetic (EM) crosstalk solutions for systems on chips, combined with our flagship electromagnetic and semiconductor solvers, provides a comprehensive solution for on-chip, 3DIC and chip-package-system electromagnetics and noise analysis. Helic’s software products (VeloceRF, RaptorX, Exalto and Pharos) help engineers analyze and mitigate the risk of on-chip EM crosstalk, which can lead to silicon failure and time to market delays. VeloceRF is an inductive device synthesizer and modeler for geometries as small as 5 nm and frequencies up to 110Ghz. RaptorX is an electromagnetic modeling, extraction and analysis tool for chip designs pre-layout-vs-schematic (LVS). Exalto is a post-LVS resistance, capacitance, self and mutual inductance (RLCk) extraction tool for electromagnetic coupling. Pharos is a tool that identifies wires that are susceptible to EM and substrate crosstalk.The acquisition of DfR Solutions' electronics reliability technology, combined with our existing multiphysics portfolio, gives customers a complete designer-level solution to analyze for electronics failure earlier in the design cycle. DfR Solutions' Sherlock is the industry's only automated design reliability analysis software. Sherlock revolutionizes electronic design by empowering designers to simulate real-world conditions and accurately model PCBs and assemblies to predict solder fatigue due to thermal, mechanical, and shock and vibration conditions. During pre-processing, Sherlock automatically translates ECAD and MCAE data into 3D finite element models in minutes. In post-processing, Sherlock automates thermal derating and democratizes the thermal and mechanical analysis of electronics - meaning analysis is done in minutes rather than weeks. Sherlock seamlessly integrates with already existing simulation workflows in the hardware design process making Ansys SIwave, Ansys Icepak and Ansys Mechanical users more efficient. It directly connects simulation to material and manufacturing costs.Our acquisition of Livermore Software Technology (LST) and its technologies empower customers to solve a new class of engineering challenges, including developing safer automobiles, aircraft and trains while reducing or even eliminating the need for costly physical testing. LST's LS-DYNA is an advanced general-purpose multiphysics simulation software package that can simulate many complex, real-world problems. LS-DYNA is the most advanced multiphysics simulation technology for high-speed, short-duration events (for example, a cell phone drop or automotive crash). Additionally, the acquisition results in an even tighter integration between LS-DYNA and Ansys Workbench (already a leading pre- and post-processor for LS-DYNA) computations. Most automotive companies use LS-DYNA to design and optimize automobile components or entire vehicles to produce safe cars for consumers. Companies all over the world have developed a trust in LST for their vehicle development process due to deep technical relationships. While we have partnered with LST for years, their industry-leading vehicle crash capabilities were not traditionally part of our offerings. Now, we have much greater access and available know-how in those industries to sell the rest of our platform.Our acquisition of Dynardo, a leading provider of multidisciplinary analysis and optimization technology, gives customers access to a full suite of process integration and robust design tools — empowering users to identify optimal product designs faster and more economically. Dynardo’s flagship offering, optiSLang, is a comprehensive multi-disciplinary design optimization solution with a full suite of multi-objective optimization, sensitivity, reliability, and robust design capabilities. Customers of all sizes and across industries leverage optiSlang to integrate chained simulation flows and automate execution for design space exploration and optimization, greatly reducing development time and accelerating the evaluation of optimal product design alternatives for cost and performance. Ansys optiSLang has an intuitive graphical user interface that enables engineers to connect computer-aided design tools together in a way that captures both the simulation process automation and workflows, such as sensitivity analysis or robust design optimization. Ansys optiSLang supports interfacing with most software tools used in virtual product development.Ansys Minerva is a centralized knowledge management application engineered with an open and vendor-neutral architecture that improves multiphysics collaboration by making data, project plans and analytics easily accessible in one place so team members across the world and in different functional silos can work with the same, most up-to-date information. Minerva improves productivity and maximizes the value of existing engineering technology investments by providing simulation process and data management, life cycle traceability, process integration, design optimization and simulation-driven data science capabilities. Available for both on-premise and cloud deployment, Minerva connects to most leading product life cycle management systems.PRODUCT QUALITY  Our employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define, for each project, the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2015 standard. We establish quality plans for our products and services, and subject product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification in accordance with processes established under our quality system.8Table of ContentsSALES AND MARKETING We distribute and support our products through our own direct sales offices, as well as a global network of independent channel partners. This channel partner network provides us with a cost-effective, highly-specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to our operations to help mitigate geography-specific economic trends and provides us with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets or enhance our sales coverage in existing markets.The channel partners sell our products to new customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of our technical support. Our channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent our expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support. We derived 22.9%, 22.4% and 24.8% of our total revenue through the indirect sales channel for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.We also have a direct sales organization to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide go-to-market account strategy. The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices.During 2019, we continued to invest in our existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, our direct sales organization comprised 2,100 and 1,700 employees as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, who were responsible for the sales, technical support, consulting services, marketing initiatives and administrative activities designed to support our overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.Our products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world's largest industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of our revenue in 2019, 2018 or 2017.Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPSWe have established and continued to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, cloud computing providers, hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD, ECAD and PLM providers. We believe that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into our products, provide access to new customers, expand our sales channels, develop specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation (EDA), product data management and PLM systems.We have technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, PTC and Siemens Digital Industries, to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and our products.We partnered with PTC to accelerate product innovation by providing customers a world-class simulation-driven design solution. Working together, we are delivering Ansys Discovery Live real-time simulation within PTC’s Creo® 3D CAD software. The combined solution, Creo Simulation Live, is sold by PTC as part of the Creo product suite. This solution offers customers a unified modeling and simulation environment, removing the boundaries between CAD and simulation and enabling design engineers to gain insight into each of the many design decisions they make throughout the product development process. This insight enables design engineers to create higher quality products, while reducing product and development costs.Similarly, we maintain marketing and software development relationships with leading EDA software companies, including Cadence Design Systems, Synopsys, Mentor Graphics, Zuken and National Instruments. These relationships support the transfer of data between electronics design and layout software and our electronics simulation portfolio. In 2017, we entered into an integration and distribution agreement with Synopsys to cooperatively integrate Ansys RedHawk technology into an in-design add-on to a Synopsys design tool for the primary purpose of providing customers with direct, in-design access to the RedHawk technology's capabilities.We also have relationships with Siemens and Spatial Corporation to provide the 3D modeling kernel and format translation technologies upon which our in-house geometry modeling software solutions are built.The main method we employ to democratize HPC to a wider audience is through partnerships with a number of companies, such as cloud computing providers, HPC hardware manufacturers and supercomputing centers such as HLRS in Stuttgart, 9Table of ContentsGermany. In 2019, we launched a new cloud service fully managed by us and developed in collaboration with Microsoft Azure that provides on-demand access to HPC directly from within our flagship applications. We also collaborated with Flexera to improve our elastic licensing solution by now supporting on-premise use and internet-based usage monitoring. We added Hewlett Packard Enterprises and Dell Technologies as new members to the HPC appliance program that is designed to simplify and accelerate HPC cluster deployment.Our open cloud strategy allows us to work with various public cloud providers and cloud-hosting partners. This approach makes it easy for customers to use the same workflows on-premise and in the Cloud. Cloud-hosting partners such as Nimbix, Rescale and Gompute provide cloud access to us and/or third-party applications for customers having very complex workflows or other restrictive security certification requirements. Furthermore, we continued to enjoy mutually-committed alliances with large cloud platform providers such as Microsoft, AWS, Google and Alibaba. In 2018, we entered into an agreement with SAP SE (SAP) to embed our pervasive simulation solutions for digital twins into SAP's market-leading digital supply chain, manufacturing and asset management portfolio. The partnership's first solution launched in 2019 and runs on the SAP Cloud Platform and empowers industrial asset operators to optimize operations and maintenance through real-time engineering insights, which reduces product cycle times and increases profitability.Our Partner Program actively encourages developers of specialized software solutions to use our technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of our software. With more than 200 active solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including materials, optimization, electronics, optical, mechanical, fluid and systems simulation, our partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of our technology offerings.We have a software license agreement with HBM that provides the advanced fatigue capabilities of nCode DesignLife™, a leading durability software from HBM. nCode DesignLife™ technology leverages the open architecture of our platform and enables mechanical engineers to more easily address complex product life and durability issues before a prototype is built. A similar agreement was executed with VirtualMotion to offer Ansys Motion™ as a tightly-integrated, next-generation capability for simulating complex multi-body mechanisms and assemblies.COMPETITIONWe believe that the principal factors affecting sales of our software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.We continue to experience competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically-focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by the end users. Some of our current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, and some have well-established relationships with current and potential customers of ours. Our current and possible future competitors also include firms that have elected, or may in the future elect, to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSESWe regard our software as proprietary and rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights in our products. We distribute our software products under software license agreements that predominantly grant customers nonexclusive licenses, which are typically nontransferable, for the use of our products. License agreements for our products are generally directly between us and end users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product or the software product is by its nature a multi-site use product. Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of our software products and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized use or reproduction. For most products, customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and upgrades, or may lease the product on a fixed-term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades. For some products, customers purchase an annual subscription for a certain number of named users that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades or purchase elastic units hosted by our Cloud and use any supported product at any time until their licensed volume is met.10Table of ContentsWe license our software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard-copy license terms and forms. For certain software produc