BUSINESSANSYS, a Delaware corporation formed in 1994, develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including aerospace and defense, automotive, electronics, semiconductors, energy, materials and chemical processing, turbomachinery, consumer products, healthcare, and sports. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2,900 people as of December 31, 2017. The Company focuses on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company distributes its ANSYS® suite of simulation technologies through a global network of independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is the Company's intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model.The Company's product portfolio consists of the following:Simulation Platform: ANSYS Workbench™ ANSYS Workbench is the framework upon which the Company's suite of advanced engineering simulation technologies is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design (CAD) connectivity, powerful highly-automated meshing, a project-level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the ANSYS Workbench platform enables Pervasive Engineering Simulation™.The Company's Workbench framework allows engineers and designers to incorporate the compounding effects of multiple physics into a virtual prototype of their design and simulate its operation under real-world conditions. As product architectures become smaller, lighter and more complex, companies must be able to accurately predict how products will behave in real-world environments where multiple types of physics interact in a coupled way. ANSYS multiphysics software enables engineers to simulate the interactions between structures, heat transfer, fluids and electronics all within a single, unified engineering simulation environment.StructuresThe Company's structural analysis product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help to deliver better and more innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts, materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities, all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems.FluidsThe Company's fluids product suite enables modeling of fluid flow and other related physical phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The suite contains general-purpose computational fluid dynamics software and specialized products to address specific industry applications.3Table of ContentsElectronicsThe Company's electronics product suite provides field simulation software for designing high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software streamlines the design process and predicts performance of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits (ICs) and printed circuit boards (PCBs), as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive components and power electronics equipment, all prior to building a prototype.SemiconductorsAdvancements in semiconductor design and manufacturing enable smaller electronic architectures. Shrinking geometries, especially in the emerging 3D IC, FinFET and stacked-die architectures, reveal design challenges related to power and reliability. The Company's power analysis and optimization software suite manages the power budget, power delivery integrity and power-induced noise in an electronic design, from initial prototyping to system sign-off. These solutions deliver accuracy with correlation to silicon measurement; the capacity to handle an entire electronic system, including IC, package and PCB, efficiently for ease-of-debug and fast turnaround time; and comprehensiveness to facilitate cross-domain communications and electronic ecosystem enablement.Embedded SoftwareThe Company's SCADE® product suite is a comprehensive solution for embedded software simulation, code production and automated certification. It has been developed specifically for use in critical systems with high dependability requirements, including aerospace, rail transportation, nuclear, industrial and, more recently, automotive applications. SCADE software supports the entire development workflow, from requirements analysis and design, through verification, implementation and deployment. SCADE solutions easily integrate with each other and the rest of the ANSYS product suite, allowing for development optimization and increased communication among team members.SystemsThe Company delivers a unique and comprehensive system simulation capability that is ideal for the design of today's increasingly automated products. This collaborative environment leverages the Company's multiphysics, multibody dynamics, circuit and embedded software simulation capabilities, enabling users to simulate the complex interactions between components, circuits and control software within a single environment. These technologies provide a complete view into predicted product performance, which creates greater design confidence for engineers.High-Performance ComputingThe Company's high-performance computing (HPC) product suite enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The HPC product suite delivers cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of the Company's simulation software by supporting structures, fluids, thermal and electronics simulations. This product suite decreases turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.3-D DesignThe Company’s Discovery™ product family allows every engineer to benefit from the insight of simulation in their product design. The Discovery products range from early design exploration tools powered by interactive real-time simulation and intuitive geometry editing, to detailed product validation solutions utilizing proven flagship solver technology with easy-to-use guided workflows. These tools allow for design engineers of all levels of expertise to utilize simulation across the entire product design process and to work seamlessly with simulation experts using ANSYS flagship products for even more advanced analysis. Customization ANSYS Workbench enables companies to create a customized simulation environment to deploy specialized simulation best practices and automations unique to their product development process or industry. With ANSYS ACT™, end users or ANSYS partners can modify the user interface, process simulation data or embed third-party applications to create specialized tools based on ANSYS Workbench.4Table of ContentsAcademicThe Company's academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers, including associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various noncommercial products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. It includes flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. The Company also provides a special product at no cost to students that is suitable for use away from the classroom and in non-commercial applications.PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company makes significant investments in research and development and emphasizes frequent, integrated product releases. The Company's product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management (PLM) systems. The Company's product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD, electronic CAD (ECAD) and PLM products, and the development of new products. The Company's products run on the most widely-used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.The Company completed the following major product development activities and releases:•In January 2018, the Company announced the release of ANSYS 19, which enables customers to leverage simulation to solve the most complex problems with greater accuracy, reduced costs, less time and less complexity. ANSYS 19 delivers major enhancements across the entire industry-leading  product portfolio. ANSYS 19 includes new support for AADL-compatible avionics system modeling, which not only empowers organizations to understand and control their system costs, but also maximizes critical performance characteristics. In the electromagnetics suite, ANSYS 19 introduces technology that is ideal for engineers designing autonomous vehicles, advanced detection systems and stealth technology. ANSYS 19 delivers a robust, integrated electromagnetic-thermal workflow that predicts crucial thermal effects within electronics designs. ANSYS medini analyze™ is new to the systems suite and available for functional safety analysis in applications for automotive, aerospace and defense, rail, nuclear and other safety-critical industries. ANSYS 19 for semiconductors provides comprehensive simulation solutions that simultaneously solve for various design attributes such as power noise, thermal properties, reliability and performance across the spectrum of chip, package and system. New functionalities are provided in the fluids suite that significantly reduce the computational effort needed for spray nozzle designers to optimize product performance. In the mechanical and electromagnetic suites, ANSYS 19 increases the number of built-in HPC cores from two to four. In the 3-D design suite, ANSYS 19 enables engineers to produce lighter-weight, stronger designs in shorter time through enhancements in topology optimization.•In August 2017, ANSYS 18.2 was released with new functionality across physics, system simulation and embedded software. For electronics, ANSYS HFSS 18.2 delivered significant meshing and computation speed plus advances in visualization for high-frequency electromagnetic field simulation. Structural analysis was enhanced with topology optimization built in to ANSYS Mechanical™. Modal and harmonic acoustic analysis was integrated natively in Mechanical, and an integrated wizard to rapidly set up drop tests was added. Enhancements to Mechanical’s HPC performance were released that allow simulations to continue increasing speed beyond 3,000 cores. Patented polyhedral unstructured mesh adaptation was added to ANSYS Fluent® to automatically refine the mesh to resolve fine details, providing accuracy with speed. Enhancements to cavitation analysis for multiple fluids and non-condensing gases were added to help pump designers. The adjoint solver was enhanced to enable engineers to optimize a greatly expanded range of problems, including rotating machinery and heat exchangers. AIM® 18.2 supports topology optimization providing shapes otherwise too complex to envision, with several prototypes for refinement and fine tuning of results.5Table of Contents•In May 2017, the Company announced the release of ANSYS 18.1, which featured enhancements to the electronics, semiconductor, structures and fluids product lines. In the fluids suite, ANSYS 18.1 enabled users to simulate more quickly and accurately. ANSYS 18.1 also provided improvements to workflow and meshing, enabling users to quickly become productive while providing new opportunities for experienced users. In the structures suite, ANSYS 18.1 added new capabilities within its topology optimization technology to analyze complex materials and optimize designs. ANSYS 18.1 expanded its noise-vibration-harshness (NVH) analysis to include both magnetostriction and induced magnetostriction effects in electrical machines and transformers. Also, ANSYS 18.1 introduced a new characteristic mode analysis solver for electronics designers to study antenna placement on large platforms such as aircraft and ships. ANSYS AIM further expanded the landscape for digital exploration in ANSYS 18.1 with enhancements across all physics. ANSYS SpaceClaim® continues to build upon its powerful optimization tools for additive manufacturing in ANSYS 18.1. New Product OfferingsDiscovery Product SuiteANSYS released the Discovery line of products in ANSYS 19.0, including the groundbreaking Discovery Live. Discovery Live provides instantaneous simulation tightly coupled with direct geometry modeling. This enables interactive design exploration and rapid product innovation.Additive ManufacturingANSYS recently acquired 3DSIM, a developer of premier additive manufacturing simulation technology. The acquisition of 3DSIM gives ANSYS 19.0 the industry's only complete design-to-print additive manufacturing simulation workflow.CEI EnSightANSYS recently acquired Computational Engineering International (CEI) and the EnSight simulation visualization software tool. EnSight can be used by enterprises to better understand the results of their simulation data by allowing engineers to combine analysis results to see multiple outputs or multiple physics. The Company's total research and development expenses were $202.7 million, $183.1 million and $168.8 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, or 18.5%, 18.5% and 17.9% of total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's product development staff consisted of approximately 1,000 employees, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines. The Company has traditionally invested significant resources in research and development activities and intends to continue to make investments in expanding the ease of use and capabilities of its broad portfolio of simulation software products.PRODUCT QUALITY  The Company's employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define, for each project, the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. The Company establishes quality plans for its products and services, and subjects product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification in accordance with processes established under the Company's quality system.SALES AND MARKETING The Company distributes and supports its products through a global network of independent channel partners, as well as through its own direct sales offices. This channel partner network provides the Company with a cost-effective, highly-specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables the Company to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to the Company's operations to offset geography-specific economic trends and provides the Company with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets. The Company derived 24.8%, 24.4% and 24.2% of its total revenue through the indirect sales channel for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.The channel partners sell ANSYS products to new customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company's channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent the Company's expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support.6Table of ContentsThe Company also has a direct sales organization to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide major account strategy. The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices.During 2017, the Company continued to invest in its existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, the Company's direct sales organization comprises 1,400 employees who are responsible for the sales, technical support, consulting services, marketing initiatives and administrative activities designed to support the Company's overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.The Company's products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world's largest industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of the Company's revenue in 2017, 2016 or 2015.Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPSThe Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD, ECAD and PLM providers. The Company believes that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the Company's products, provide access to new customers, expand the Company's sales channels, develop specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation (EDA), product data management and PLM systems.The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, PTC and Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software, to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and ANSYS products.Similarly, the Company maintains marketing and software development relationships with leading EDA software companies, including Cadence Design Systems, Synopsys, Mentor Graphics, Zuken and National Instruments. These relationships support the transfer of data between electronics design and layout software and the ANSYS electronics simulation portfolio. In 2017, the Company entered into an integration and distribution agreement with Synopsys to cooperatively integrate ANSYS RedHawk technology into an in-design add-on to a Synopsys design tool for the primary purpose of providing customers with direct, in-design access to the RedHawk technology's capabilities. The Company also has a relationship with Spatial Corp. to provide the 3-D modeling kernel technology upon which the Company's in-house geometry modeling software solutions are built.The main method that ANSYS employs to democratize HPC to a wider audience is through partnerships with a number of companies, such as cloud-hosting providers, HPC hardware manufacturers and supercomputing centers such as HLRS in Stuttgart, Germany. The cloud partners not only provide HPC services, but also the back-end infrastructure to those customers who lack the in-house HPC or IT staff, but still want the ability to increase computational resources quickly. In addition, ANSYS has established partnerships with HPC partners that provide appliances, or pre-configured racks of computational hardware optimized and configured to run ANSYS software. In 2017, ANSYS, Saudi Aramco and King Abdullah University of Science & Technology (KAUST) in Saudi Arabia announced that they had set a new supercomputing milestone by scaling ANSYS Fluent to nearly 200,000 processor cores. This supercomputing record represents a more than five-fold increase over the record set just three years ago when Fluent first reached the 36,000-core scaling milestone.The Company's open cloud strategy allows it to work with various public cloud providers and cloud hosting partners. This approach makes it easy for customers to use the same workflows on-premise and in the Cloud. In addition, the Company strengthened its other cloud-hosting service partnerships by further improving best practices for executing engineering simulation in the Cloud. Cloud-hosting partners such as Nimbix, Rescale and Gompute provide friction-free cloud access to ANSYS solutions for customers. Furthermore, the Company enjoys mutually-committed alliances with large cloud platform providers such as Microsoft and AWS.The Company's Partner Program actively encourages specialized developers of software solutions to use the Company's technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of the Company's software. With almost 200 active solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including optimization, electronics, mechanical simulation, fluid simulation and CAD, this partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of the Company's technology offerings.7Table of ContentsThe Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Technology Corporation (LSTC) whereby LSTC has provided LS-DYNA® software for explicit dynamics solutions used in applications such as crash test simulations in automotive and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of the LS-DYNA software with the Company's pre- and post-processing capabilities and provides updates and problem resolution in return for royalties from sales of the ANSYS LS-DYNA® combined product.The Company has a software license agreement with HBM that provides the advanced fatigue capabilities of nCode DesignLife™, a leading durability software from HBM. ANSYS nCode DesignLife™ technology leverages the open architecture of the ANSYS platform and enables mechanical engineers to more easily address complex product life and durability issues before a prototype is built.COMPETITIONThe Company believes that the principal factors affecting sales of its software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.The Company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company's current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well-established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company's current and possible future competitors also include firms that have elected, or may in the future elect, to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSESThe Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software products under software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses, which are typically nontransferable, for the use of the Company's products. License agreements for the Company's products are directly between the Company and end users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product or the software product is by its nature a multi-site use product. Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company's software products and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction. For most products, customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and upgrades, or may lease the product on a fixed-term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades. For its Discovery products, customers purchase an annual subscription for a certain number of named users that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.The Company licenses its software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard-copy license terms and forms. For certain software products, the Company primarily relies on "click-wrapped" licenses. The enforceability of these types of agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has obtained federal trademark registration protection for ANSYS and other marks in the U.S. and foreign countries. Additionally, the Company was awarded numerous patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and has a number of patent applications pending. To the extent the Company does not choose to seek patent protection for its intellectual property, the Company primarily relies on the protection of its source code as a trade secret.Employees of the Company have signed agreements under which they have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information. These agreements, where legally permitted, restrict engagement in or connection with any business that is competitive with the Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and, in some cases, for specified periods thereafter) and state that any products or technology created by employees during their term of employment are the property of the Company. In addition, the Company requires all channel partners to enter into agreements not to disclose the Company's trade secrets and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of the Company's technology and proprietary information (including source code) will be prevented. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for the Company's products in certain jurisdictions, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel partners to engage in activities competitive with the Company will be enforceable. Costly and time-8Table of Contentsconsuming litigation could be necessary in the future to enforce the Company's rights to its trade secrets and proprietary information or to enforce its patent rights and copyrights, and it is possible that, in the future, the Company's competitors may be able to obtain the Company's trade secrets or to independently develop similar, unpatented technology.The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are also important to establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to the various legal protections of its technology that may be available. The Company does not believe that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by the Company or its licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products and suppliers continues to expand and the functionality of products continues to increase. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product release delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.SEASONAL VARIATIONSThe Company's business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from slowdowns of customer activities during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company's global customers. Lease and maintenance contract renewals are typically highest in the first and fourth quarters. The Company's revenue is typically highest in the fourth quarter.DEFERRED REVENUE AND BACKLOGDeferred revenue consists of billings made or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from software license and maintenance agreements. The deferred revenue on the Company's consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total value of annual or multi-year, noncancellable software license and maintenance agreements. The Company's backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle and customer orders received but not processed. The Company's deferred revenue and backlog as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 consisted of the following: Balance at December 31, 2017(in thousands)Total Current Long-TermDeferred revenue$468,560 $440,491 $28,069Backlog301,150 97,283 203,867Total$769,710 $537,774 $231,936 Balance at December 31, 2016(in thousands)Total Current Long-TermDeferred revenue$415,846 $403,279 $12,567Backlog221,994 64,361 157,633Total$637,840 $467,640 $170,200Revenue associated with deferred revenue and backlog that will be recognized in the subsequent twelve months is classified as current in the table above.EMPLOYEESAs of December 31, 2017, the Company employed approximately 2,900 people. At that date, there were also contract personnel and co-op students providing ongoing development services and technical support. Certain employees of the Company are subject to collective bargaining agreements and have local work councils.9Table of ContentsACQUISITIONSThe Company makes targeted acquisitions in order to support its long-term strategic direction, accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to its existing products, supply new products and services, expand its customer base and enhance its distribution channels. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 the Company completed various acquisitions to expand its customer base and accelerate the development of new and innovative products to the marketplace while lowering design and engineering costs for customers. The acquisitions were not individually significant. The combined purchase prices of the acquisitions purchased during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $67.0 million, $10.3 million and $49.7 million, respectively. The 2017 technology acquisitions are further described in the table below:Date of Closing Company DetailsNovember 15, 2017 3DSIM 3DSIM, a developer of premier additive manufacturing technology, gives ANSYS a complete additive manufacturing simulation workflow solution. 3DSIM's software solutions empower manufacturers, designers, materials scientists and engineers to achieve their objectives through simulation-driven innovation rather than physical trial and error.July 5, 201