 Studying abroad and Milan  exposed me to fashion design, which was very interesting for me, because I come from an industrial design background. While participating in textile conventions, I was surprised not to see any experimenting between fashion and 3D printing manufacturing. Especially from seeing the current exploration of some fashion houses hot couture collection, I expected to see at least a few samples. So I began to ask myself: what would 3D printed clothing look like, and can we design it to be functional, wearable and comfortable? My name is Maria Alejandra Mora-Sanchez, and I'm an industrial design intern at Cosine Additive. I knew that in order for my idea to work, I needed a large surface area to 3D print textiles. Fortunately, our printers are capable of  printing at a large scale in a fast and affordable process. Loom is a comfortable, ready-to-wear, adaptable, and fashionable 3D printed garment. Since it's expandable, it adapts to  all body types and body changes. The collection explores ready-to-wear auxetic patterns which expand under longitudinal strain and contract laterally when compressed. Their properties give the swatches  various beneficial effects compared to the current ones in the market. The material that I chose is thermoplastic polyurethane, commonly known as TPU. Its properties include: high abrasion resistance, low-temperature performance, high shear strength, oil and grease resistance, and 500% elongation. We used 1,000 grams of TPU, which sets the material cost for dress to $60 USD. I believe that 3d printing is the future of fashion. The additive manufacturing and fashion industries are mainly focused on accessories and conceptual sculptural pieces, but these aren't garments that are comfortable or adapt to the human body. With the current developments in this technology, there are a great number of opportunities to create amazing new products and materials. I combined 3D printing and textiles by applying structures and materials that consider function in the human body. With this project, I hope to contribute to the future of fashion. Start your large print today with Cosine Additive! And don't forget to follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter 