 Forget 2D printers! Now you will see miracles "printed" by 3D printers. Number 10. 3D printed heart On last July, scientists at the University of Zurich made an unprecedented development. A fully functional heart is produced with a 3D printer. For now, prototypes made from silicon are broken up after 30 minutes of operating. Scientists claim that this barrier will be eliminated soon and organ donation problems will be solved as well. Number 9 is 3D printed bridge this bridge is finished 3 weeks ago. It is build on small river The bridged was designed as a bicycle road and it took 3 months to finalize. Replacement teeth. If you think replacement teeth were always available, then watch this. These teeth do not decay. Again, these teeth produced by Dutch scientists at the University of Groningen It can eradicate 99% of bacteria that can harm natural teeth. There is a bicycle on number 7. Last year UK's famous bike manufacturer has produce first bike using 3D printer Of course, we're talking about metal frame. Bicycles made with 3D printers are 44% lighter and twice more durable than other bicycles. Engagement Rings. People who are in the phase of getting married understand that it is very long and stressful period. If you are about to spend 3 months salary to engagement ring, then stop. There are cheaper ones printed by 3D printer. You can order whatever the design you want online. So, instead of spending 3 months salary to ring you can go to tour of Europe. Number 5 is 3D printed car. Local Motors is an American company that produced Strati 2 years ago. Don't judge it quickly. It is printed by 3D printer. It is powered by electric accumulator. So, it is cheap, energy efficient, and safer because of light material. If you need replacement parts you can 3D print it. Do you want to get on a plane made with a 3D printer? Airbus announced the first 3D printed plane on June 6, 2016. Although this model is designed as an unmanned aircraft, we understand from the company's plans that we will all fly with these planes in the future. But do not worry. These airplanes are lighter and more durable, and safer. Number 3 - 3D printed house. This house is built by 3D printer. So You Wanna guess how long does it take to complete this house? Could it be a month? NO. Could it be a week? NO. This 40 square meters house took only 1 day to build and costs $10 thousand. Number 2 is 3D printed food. Startup from Barcelona announced 3D printer that will use real ingredients and prepare food. You can prepare foods that require attention and preciseness such as pastry, cookies, pizza by pressing one button. Of course you need to fill the cartridges with the necessary ingredients. Are you ready to be amazed? Because number 1 is 3D printed 3D printer. I do not even want to imagine a self-replicating machine. But Reprap company has made first 3D printer capable of printing another 3D printer back in 2014. If you ask me how many of Reprap printers are out there, I have no idea, millions of units, maybe, because they can replicate:) Well, what would you print first if you had 3D printer? Do not forget to share your answer with us in the comments section. So what would you print? The 2D printer I "forgot" at the beginning of my video Thanks 