 OK. Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Andres Sevtsuk. I am an assistant professor here in the Department of Planning and Design. And we'll be moderating this cities and technology panel debate centered around a question. "Will Shared Electric and Automated Vehicles Deteriorate or Ameliorate Pedestrian Qualities of Streets? This is a series of cities and technology debates we're holding here at the GSD this semester as well as our counterpart debates at MIT that are organized by the Department of Urban Studies and Planning there and the Senseable City Lab. There will be more announcements going out about the following debates that are coming up. Just a few words about the speakers today. We are very happy to have with us Seleta Reynolds, who is the general manager of the LA DOT and is also very active in the work of the National Association of City Transportation Officials, NACTO, serves as the current president of the organization and has been a big streets and public life advocate in the United States in the last decade. We also have Robin Chase, who many of you know, was a Cambridge local but a global citizen, the founder of Zipcar, and Buzzcar, and has been very actively involved with non-organizations and others trying to steer this future trajectory of the transportation revolution towards a better path. Diane Davis, who is the chair of the Urban Planning and Design Department here at Harvard. I'm sure all of you know her. And Diane's still in the process of completing a major transportation research project sponsored by the Volvo research and education foundation. Its called Transforming Urban Transport-- The Role of Political Leadership. So thank you very much for being here and joining this debate. Chris Osgood, Boston's chief of streets, unfortunately told me this morning that he has to take care of snow. So Chris is not going to be joining us, unfortunately, but we'll hopefully have him back for another debate in the future. So I just want to say a couple of words of introduction to this debate and then turn it over to our speakers. The format will be that each of the speakers will make a seven-minute statement around the question. We urge the speakers to take a side, whether the new mobile technologies will make streets better for pedestrians or worse for pedestrians. And some of them will take a clear answer. And we'll see how this plays out. And actually, before we even get into that topic, I'd like to also do a very, very quick poll in the audience-- just by a show of hands. How many of you think that the mobility revolution in the form of shared electric and automated vehicles is going to be good for pedestrians on streets? Please raise your hands. OK. And how many of you think it's going to be bad for pedestrians? I'd say it's about 60-40. 60% think it's better for pedestrians, and 40% bad. We're going to do the poll again at the end of the debate today. [laughter] OK, so I'm only going to use one chart to do this introduction and a single slide, and then hand it off. This chart comes from the Rocky Mountain Institute, who has, along with many others, been evaluating the economic cost advantages of shared electric mobility. And I think it depicts one of the most important aspects of this transition, which is that on the left-hand side, we have the picture of the cost of mobility today. The greenish line on the top is really the cost of a personally owned car today. And this is total cost, including the operational expenses. Operational expenses alone are on the gray line below. So what we see here is that the TNC rides-- so if you ride Uber or Lyft today, then the cost per mole of riding it is approximately the same as the cost per mole of owning a vehicle today. Now of course, many people don't think of the total cost of driving, so they think in operational cost-- how much does it cost in gasoline and parking on a daily basis? And that costs on personal cars is still about half of the TNC costs. So there's a lot of people who use TNC, takes Uber and Lyft; but still, it remains, in terms of operational expense, much cheaper to own a car today. Where the Rocky Mountain Institute sees the trend moving by 2035 is the following. The cost of riding TNCs on automated vehicles-- so taking an automated Uber and automated Lyft or DiDi will be considerably lower than the cost of total car ownership for personal cars and even lower than the cost of operational expenses in personal cars. This is oftentimes used as the sort of argument about why the industry in automotive sectors, as well as the transit network companies, et cetera, are all banking on the future of shared autonomous mobility, not so much the private model. And this makes an economic case that indeed if the operating costs are so low, which make a ride cost around $0.30 per mile as opposed to $2, in fact, in some of the cities today, then there's an enormous economic advantage to shifting out of personal automobiles into shared and TNC automated and electric vehicles. So I just wanted to set this context of why this is such a big discussion and why so many of the private sector counterparts speculate that this is going to be a tremendous influence on cities today. But we're not going to be talking about the economic projections and forecasts first. What we're going to be talking about is what this means for streets and particularly the pedestrian qualities of streets. So I'll stop there, and we'll do the first statement from Seleta. OK, Kevin told me I have to do it at the podium, y'all. So I'm at the podium. I will tell you a side story-- Barbara Boxer, a very famous elected official from California, travels everywhere with what is known as the "Boxer Box" because she is in my tribe-- the tribe of people under five foot three. And so any time she is behind a podium, she stands on the Boxer Box so that she is taken seriously by her audience of mostly white dudes. So I don't have a Boxer Box today, but I just treasure and delight in that story. I'll say at the top of this that my position on the question is an answer that, very frustratingly, my favorite high school teacher, Dr. Charles Weeks, used to say when we would ask him questions, which is, yes and no, but mostly no, in terms of whether or not we think that future mobility options are going to make things better for people walking specifically. So it's no new thing that we are dreaming, and hoping, and wishing, and trying to ideate towards a really exciting future in mobility. And all of the disruption that's happening in this space right now allows us to think creatively and to bring words into the conversation about transportation in the public realm that we typically don't get to use-- words like transportation happiness, words like social cohesion, words like public life. And this is a project that I did with some artists in San Francisco where politics, money, feasibility is no option. What does the future of transportation look like? And all of us were like, well, I'd like to build a second transbay BART tube. And the artist said, cool. Let's assume that's already done. Now what? And I was like, well, I don't know. Maybe a zip line across the Bay? And they were like, great! We're going to go with that. Which sort of feels like what's happening in mobility right now, which is really exciting. It allows us to take renderings like this, which is the Utopian vision of what comes when we really get to this-- my favorite summary of the acronym is ACES, where it's Autonomous Connected Electric and Shared. We come up ACES and we get this sort of consolidated fleet and renderings that we bring to life that really surround an orbit around people and public realms that are designed around people's happiness, and our basic needs as social creatures, and give us opportunities to do all the things we love to do in cities, which is you know, flirt, and make up, and break up, and argue, and debate, and people watch-- and opens and unlocks the potential of the public realm to facilitate that. And the private sector-- some of them are even singing from the same songbook and putting out ideas and visions of the future that look very similar to the ones that urbanists have been talking about for a long time, which is really cool. So if we can get to a place where I can open the streets of Los Angeles to people and have a gigantic party that we call CicLAvia every single weekend, what that would mean for the strength of the city and the power of pulling people into neighborhoods that they otherwise would never see and seeing their city in ways that they otherwise wouldn't. What if I could turn a street into a playground at the flip of a switch over the course of the day? What if I could invite families to come out and be together and have opportunities to do more with the streets than just get around? What if I can radically re-envision street furniture for something that is modular, that moves around, that allows people to flip it up, turn it around, sit on it, play on it, and then pack it up and put it away when they want to use the street for something else? But there are very powerful forces that are aligned against these kinds of outcomes. And there's this dichotomy between technologists and urbanists. And you have people with giant brains-- although I guess it's not the size of the brain that matters; it's the density of the folds, which I cling to as a person with a very small head-- that come into this space and mistake political problems for technology problems. And you can read this quote that was out in the public space about how the technology side of the house is thinking about the issue of moving large numbers of people in cities and their solutions, which align very much with this kind of approach, where you pull up in your private vehicle, you get whisked down on an elevator, and you zoom point to point without having to interact with any of the hoi polloi on the street. And folks who are repeating mistakes that we know happen when you flood the public realm with things that are expendable-- for things to last, people have to love them. And for people to love them, they have to be beautiful. So when you give somebody something that is not well-designed and is sort of crappy in the interest of giving a lot of them to people, then this is the result that you get-- streets, and spaces, and things that are not cared for and organized. Because the problem here is that a lot of these private actors and companies are not mobility companies. They are data companies. And they are building new empires on top of a platform that we are absolutely not ready for. And they are not providing a thoughtful approach to the public realm. The other problem is us. We've done, frankly, a pretty crappy job of creating and delivering a beautiful public realm to begin with. And when we go into communities and talk about real changes necessary to deliver a beautiful public realm, we get results like this. So this is what happens in Los Angeles when you go into a wealthy West Coast neighborhood, take away a lane of traffic, and repurpose it for people biking and walking. You immediately get the community of folks organizing and fundraising to recall the locally elected and to form a Pac specifically designed to combat road diets, which is one of the most important tools that we're going to need in our toolbox in order to enable this really beautiful, well-designed public realm. And the fact is that these changes were made specifically because a 16-year-old girl named Naomi Larson lost her life when she was crossing her street from the beach to the parking lot. And in light of what happened in Tempe, Arizona this week, I think we all need to think carefully about whether or not we are willing to accept fatalities as the price of getting to this full autonomous future that we are all so interested in-- and the fact that the actors on the private side that are enabling and building the products that get us there are absolutely operating from a windshield perspective. The last thing I'll put on the table is that there is a story that came out a couple of weeks ago about the fact that China is denying entrance into some of its subway systems for people with poor social credit. So I think we also have to think very carefully about the surveillance and privacy questions that are hard-coded into this transportation technology future and whether or not we are willing to create a new class system based on the fact that our data is ubiquitous. And it really is. We are not allowed to valuate it ourselves. So from my perspective, unless we get real culture change that has to be called for by the public, by academic institutions, by cities, then we are much more likely to end up with a very deteriorated public realm in the future. [applause] I'm going to go really fast because I have a 3 and 1/2 minute video. And then, I get 3 and 1/2 more minutes. So go! [video playback] - Self-driving cars could make cities more livable, sustainable, equitable, and just. Fully automated self-driving cars will be available for sale in cities by 2020. They have very different economics than our current cars and so won't fit in well with today's rules of play. I see two distinct possibilities for our automated-car future-- heaven or hell. We get to choose. Forward-thinking leadership is going to make all the difference. We get hell by taking a wait-and-see approach. In this future, people buy AVs instead of today's cars. For trips, once you get to your destination, instead of paying for parking downtown, it will be cheaper to have your empty AV circle the block or drive back home. The same is true for stores. It could be cheaper to have a drugstore car drive to customers than to pay for retail space downtown. Today, 75% of all cars on the road have one occupant-- the driver. In the future, as we add more cars operating with their different economics, 50% of the cars will have no people in them, running low-value errands or avoiding parking. Meanwhile, all the taxi, bus, shuttle, and truck drivers will lose their jobs. We'll also lose about 60% of our tax revenue that finances road infrastructure because AVs are electric, don't park, and don't get parking tickets. Our roads and bridges get a whole lot worse. We definitely don't want the hell scenario. We get heaven by taking a proactive approach. Over a million people in US cities are already car-sharing. And in San Francisco, 50% of the people using ride-hailing apps now share their trips with another passenger who's a stranger. Instead of spending $9,000 a year on your own car, when we combine car-sharing and ride-hailing and buy a seat in a shared autonomous vehicle, we can get door-to-door transport at the speed of private car travel for the cost of a subway ticket. This transforms people's access to opportunity. Car-sharing eliminates the need for parking, while ride-sharing reduces congestion. We will only need 10% of the cars we have in cities today, even at peak times-- no more on-street parking, no more parking garages. If most of the AVs in cities are shared cars and which people can share trips, we can widen sidewalks, plant trees, put in bike lanes and benches. We can get rid of parking lots and build affordable housing, or public parks, or whatever. Establishing the criteria and priorities for newly available public land will be critical to making sure communities get what they need. We could also reduce air pollution and CO2 emissions as we move from gas to electric power for our cars, but only if we demand that this new incremental electric energy use be renewable. Happily, electric AVs will pay their fair share for road and bridge repair because we will have made and created new user fees that apply to them. We'll discourage empty zombie cars and make it more expensive to drive than to park. But wait, what about all those people who used to drive, repair cars, pump gas, design and build cars for a living? They worked hard, and their jobs disappeared almost overnight. We need to make sure that people can diversify their income with benefits that are portable and apply no matter how few hours you work. And we need to start piloting basic income. So if we want heaven and not hell, we have to start working together to get the right laws and regulations in place now, especially for the first cities that set the example. Just as your head is reeling from the impact and potential for self-driving cars, realize that this is just the tip of the big automation iceberg. Automation delivers enormous productivity gains without the associated labor. Its like making honey without the worker bees. How would we distribute this new kind of honey? Automation gives us reason to reconsider how, why, and where we tax and to think anew about what kind of world we want to live in. [end playback] So I guess my question is, will it be better or worse? I'm going to go for style of debate-- yes, it's going to be great! And then, I have a bunch of crummy slides, which always, whenever I give a talk at GSD, I'm embarrassed by my slides. But I change them up every day, and I'm that skilled. So I feel like this is-- we have this unique and irreplaceable window of opportunity right now. The arrival of the autonomous vehicles provides us a concrete and visible time horizon for action unlike climate change, which just keeps flying out to the future, with a built-in refreshment up of our vehicle stock, meaning, if we paid attention, we could actually get vehicles to go from being a combustion engine to electric, and a host of very focusing problems for all the stakeholders and an opportunity to reduce cities. So we have this political moment. And so why do I think it's politically possible? We're about to introduce autonomous vehicles that are coinciding with huge urbanization pressures around the world, personal car ownership at its demonstrated limits, the negative health effects and cost of our sedentary lifestyle playing out, congestion crossed with the bankruptcy of our infrastructure financing, and the climate stabilization window closing. So these are things that-- everyone is thinking about this huge group of stakeholders, and we can bring this together right now. So I feel like we need to use jujitsu to take the momentum of this terrible-- all these things happening-- and push it to end up at the place where we want it to be-- this heaven version. And for me, I've been thinking that what we really need to make clear is that among people who are thoughtful about it, there really is one common vision. There are these tectonic plates that are shifting in the transport sector, and everything is in motion. And we know for sure that place is going-- we needed to solidify-- is on the side of livable, sustainable, clean, just cities. And so we have to act at this moment. So I've been working on and I've just raised a lot of money for creating this one worldwide collaboration. And it's a preposterous idea. How do you make a worldwide collaboration? And so I think number one is we have to create awareness of the problems and opportunities. Everyone has to see that this thing is about to happen. Two, alignment among as many stakeholders as we can, as, here's where we're going. We're all in agreement, this is where we're going. And then local execution is incredibly challenging, which is why it needs this huge collaboration of everyone everywhere. So part of this work was something I just did called the Shared Mobility Principles for Livable Cities. I'm sorry this slide's got so much on it. It was creating a common vision of what a city should be-- so sustainable, inclusive, prosperous, resilient cities, efficient, and pollution-free, full of people and goods while providing affordable health and integrated mobility for all. And this common narrative of how to get there-- and these 10 principles. I'm throwing them up there. You should go look at it later. What is really fantastic is that it was designed-- these 10 principles were people from these large transport and city NGOs got together over seven months. It was torture, wordsmithing, in fact, we all did agree with these principles. And then five weeks ago, we announced that 15 of the large service providers were in. And in that interim month, we've had this huge outpouring from people around the world. So people from 30 different countries, entities from 30 different countries had doubled the size of these big multinationals that are interested and a whole bunch of local NGOs will be-- I'm working with C40, and we're going to be hitting up their cities. And really, the goal is to have this shared space where we all are saying, this is where we're going. And directionally, this is how we're going to get there so that we have some very focused areas of agreement and focus areas for discussion. So to conclude, this favorite little diptych of mine-- this is the Chungcheong river highway that ran through Seoul. That mayor decided that he wanted to become president, and he did a really difficult and challenging hard-work thing to rip off those 12 lanes of highway and uncover the river that went underneath. This is what it looks like. And he did go on, on the back of that, to become president of Korea-- of South Korea. And I guess what I want to say is, infrastructure is destiny, and we have to get this transition right. So whether you think it's going to be hard or near impossible, we have to go there. And there is a beautiful future ahead if we work hard at it. Thanks. [applause] So it's very daunting to be on this panel with these two brilliant women who are, like, national, if not global, leaders in the field of transportation. I'm just kind of coming up from the ranks studying things among which was the political decision to build the-- to tear down the Chungcheong highway, but I'm not going to talk about that. I'm really happy to be here. And returning to the question that Andres sent me a couple of days ago, he wanted us to answer the question, are emerging mobility technologies ameliorating or deteriorating pedestrian qualities of streets? And so I pondered over that question for a while. And my answer-- and I'm sorry Andres-- is to say it's the wrong question. [laughter] Or better said, perhaps an overly narrow question that doesn't allow us to get at the larger reason we need to focus on new mobility technologies, which, to my mind, is their impact on urbanism and the overall quality of the mobility urbanism experience in cities, including the impacts on sustainability and equity. And I do want to say, footnote, it's kind of embarrassing-- I'm the one GSD person here; I don't have a single slide. So letting you know that. So having raised questions about the question, I want to try to respond anyway and not completely avoid answering it. So if I were to try to answer that question, I would say, it depends. One cannot make a blanket statement about the impact of technology on streets without putting it into more detailed context. So on what does it depend? These are the set of questions that I'd have to answer to think more about this question. First, which technology? And in particular, collective versus individual? There are a variety of technologies-- shared, et cetera. Which city? I.e, what is the form, the structure, and the nature of streets in a particular locale? How have they been used in the past, and how will they be used in the future? Three, which neighborhood? Because remember, we're focusing on streets here. There may be other conditions that mediate the adoption and distribution of these technologies. Four, which people use the technology most frequently? And what does this do to non-users on the same street? So those are some of the equity questions. And then fifth and last, who controls-- that is who owns, manages, regulates, coordinates-- if only-- the technology, and for what purposes are they being deployed? Is it for moneymaking? For mobility? For social cohesion? For mode-shifting? For reducing carbon emissions? All of those are valuable goals. But sometimes implementers or promoters of these technologies have one of these aims and not the other in mind. So I want to say that this suggests that focus should be on the conditions under which new technologies are applied to streets rather than focusing in an isolated manner on the relationship between technology and streetscapes-- important as a larger concern is. So one of the things I learned when I went on the job market, my advisor told me, when somebody asks you a question, always turn it into something that allows you to say what you want to say. And that's my part now. So of the five conditionalities that I just mentioned, I'd like to put on the table for discussion the last one, which has to do with who controls, manages, regulates, or coordinates this technology and for what larger aims? I want to highlight this, precisely because advocates of smart mobility technologies do not always concern themselves-- and I'm actually not talking about the folks that are here. But I'm thinking about Uber, and Apple Car, et cetera. A lot of these advocates and inventors in smart mobility technology don't concern themselves with the larger questions of governance or coordinating capacity, let alone a larger commitment to advancing long-term sustainability aims. In the current era, promoters of new or improved urban transportation services for cities, IT-related or otherwise, are often, in the best of worlds, focused on the difficult task of challenging the primacy of the automobile, and expanding non-motorized mobility alternatives, and reducing vehicle congestion in whatever way possible. And that's like, kind of, they've got their eyes on the prize, but they're not thinking always about the bigger picture-- again, present company excluded. Sometimes, as has been alluded to, they are just doing this as a measure of profit maximizing, not even thinking about the urbanization consequences, but using the language of sustainability as promotion and selling of their products. Having said this, a single change-- I do accept that the adoption of these technologies can hold the potential to change the use of streets to make a better pedestrian experience-- although, there are many sides of the coin, as we've just heard. But also having said this, a single change in a streetscape may not necessarily produce a better urban experience for pedestrians in the city in the aggregate. As such, the question that might concern us here is not merely the transformation of the pedestrian experience on a given or even a smaller set of streets-- owing to new mobility technology-- but also the impact of these technologies on governance capacities-- capable of ensuring that pedestrians in the city, as a whole, experience better conditions. And Robin's point about funds not coming to the public sector-- to answer those questions is one way of dealing with that. For this reason, I want to end my brief remarks not by answering the question Andreas, but by throwing this other, albeit related, question back at the rest of the panelists. Will some mobility innovations directed towards changing the pedestrian experience at the scale of the street lay a new or better groundwork for strengthening coordination across multiple sectors, levels of government, planning institutions, or territorial scales so as to create, robust, well-integrated and environmentally sensitive urban fabric, in which the [? changed ?] individual streetscapes and the pedestrian experience can translate into more sustainable, equitable, and urbanistically preferable cities. In other words, which technologies enable the governance regimes that we need in order to produce those types of cities? Thanks. [applause] Thank you, all. So we have a yes and no, a yes, and a very academic answer-- it's the wrong question. [laughter] So we'll first give each of the panelists time to briefly respond to the other points that were brought up by the other panelists, and we'll go in the same order-- have Saleta do the first response, Robin, followed by Diane. And then, we'll go into a conversation and Q&A. Yeah. So great. And I really appreciate and enjoy the opportunity to hear both of ya'lls remarks. And also, Andres, thank you so much for being on the panel and for diversity's sake. Because I know it's awkward for a man who is on an all-- you know, that has all-female panels all over the place-- you just never get away from them. And so it's amazing, really, that diversity is here. But really, thank you for having me, and it's been a great day so far. And I guess my response is really that, absolutely, this is not-- I agree with Diane-- this is not an external-facing question. It is an internal-facing question for every actor in this space about whether or not they are willing to undergo the kind of culture change in our organizations that will be necessary. And capacity-building is one thing-- and that's absolutely true. We have to fund each of the things that we want to do properly. But we also have to bust our ways of thinking inside government in particular. So the way that we interact and work with the private sector has been so frustrating, and slow, and arduous that the private sector has decided that they're just interested in making government obsolete. And you get a lot of this-- I'll call it, politely, techno-libertarianism that manifests itself. I will tell a short story. There is a company that will remain nameless that decided to go out and put up their own stop sign-- technology company-- their own stop sign that blinked on a crosswalk because it was taking the city too long and because our estimate of what was needed was different. And so we walked over there, and they were so shocked that I was not there to parade them around the room on my shoulders, but instead to suggest that they had raised and created significant liability issues and actually that we had to take their magical toy down, which just gives you a sense of what we're talking about here. There's arrogance on both sides of this conversation that will have to disappear if we are going to be able to get to the outcomes that we want, and that's really the battle that we should be waging, not so much the battle over-- even design guidelines for the streets, or regulations like congestion pricing. We have to do all that stuff. But before we can do that successfully, we have to completely pivot our way of doing business on all sides. Some quick things-- was ACES are OK. But the one my daughter came up with, I really like-- Fleets of Autonomous Vehicles that are Electric and Shared-- FAVES. FAVES are better than coming with ACES. FAVES. So I'm advocating for faves. And I also wanted to be clear-- as I was looking at my videos and having Seleta watching, I thought, ugh, I need to say that when I think about shared mobility, it's from subways, up to me, taking my own taxi by myself. It's a continuum of vehicle sizes. I'm totally intrigued by what you said, and I think this crosses with Seleta-- is the new currency is data. And cities are-- I want to say-- almost all stakeholders, except for a few, are data challenged. Like, most of us don't have visibility, and a few big centralized companies have this visibility. And right now, there's a big discussion raging around what kind of data should be sent to cities in some anonymized format so they can do some quality planning-- so they can know, where should I do a pick up and drop-off zone? Which lanes should become HOV? Where are their car accidents? And so that that kind of censored data of all the transport can be given to the city appropriately, deanonymized, and that-- that I would say the private sector, on the flip side, is saying, you cities are asking you for everything. You don't know what you want with it. You don't have anybody [? who ?] [? has ?] an idea, and you have really terrible handling of it, so you create your own liability issues. And I would say there there's all of us, as individuals, who are watching all our data be privatized, and our government, in this country, doesn't care. So hopefully, the Europeans will put their standards onto us, and that might happen in the future. So I just want to say, data is this really interesting space where we could be having a useful interaction among those parties. And I was struck by-- I don't know if you guys know GTFS, which is Google-started, but became a worldwide standard for transit schedules, times, fares-- and that was really interesting; but if you think of the continuum of transportation, it does nothing for-- there is no standards for single-- for passenger services. And so I think that transit is going to be losing out unless-- they don't have enough data, and these guys have a ton of data to improve services. So anyway, there's a really big challenge in there around data standardization. So yes, I think that government is way too slow. And how do we speed them up and keep this other stakeholder engaged, as in humans, who live in those cities? And how do we get them involved at the pace required? So I think there's this real pacing issue that is, for me, the most challenging one, as I think about everything ahead? This argument I've been having with my millennial children and their peers is, I'm saying, oh my god, climate change and the impacts-- we've lost the window for this, and we have months in which to get this window at hand. And they tell me, mom, people need to empower. And it has to come up from the grassroots. And we have to build community. And we have to this-- and I think-- so for me, that is a huge issue as we go forward. OK. Well, I just want to pick up this thread. I think it's kind of unfolding in an interesting way. So I guess I'm hearing from Seleta, one problem we are facing is the lack of conversation between the private sector and local authorities. And not just conversation, but trust. OK, trust. That's even a better way of saying it. And there's probably-- I would like to think there's more trust on the side of the government towards the private sector but maybe not. So that's a huge problem for us in the field-- in our discipline. And we haven't really talked about the idea-- I mean, the notion of public private partnerships is super big-- and urban planning. But really, in the field of transportation, we haven't talked about it as much as we should have. So I think that's super important. And I think that's the way to go. We can't just say, we need more governance, and then you're going to-- especially in this country, you're going to get pushback from the private sector. So that's the first point, which you've already laid out. The second one-- building on what Robin is saying, I actually think the question of data and who owns and controls the data is a big, important public debate that we should have and that-- I mean, not even thinking about Mark Zuckerberg last night and talking about Facebook-- but in this week, with a death-- with a car and now this-- we need to grab a hold of that conversation but maybe tie it to transportation, mobility, and environment, as opposed to having it float in the domain of the public versus the private sector, which is a battle that we won't win. Because this country and around the neo-liberal world-- that is a really tough battle, but if we can bring that conversation down to those of us who care about mobility and sustainability and say, we need to have a conversation about who has access to the data-- how do we share it between the public and the private sector, I think that is a very important conversation. The last thing I would say about that-- I was just in-- last, year when I met Seleta the first time in Leipzig at the International Transport Forum on a group on smart mobility-- we were in panels-- this is a debate in Europe, too. It's not even like they've solved the question about who owns data and how it can be used and marshaled for the public good, not for the private good. That's a general concern-- again, we just have to look at the newspapers-- but in particular, in mobility, it is the concern-- about how to get these actors to work together to produce better cities. So I would like to actually come back to one of the questions or premises that I put up on a leading slide about the costs of transportation fundamentally changing and argue that in the 20th century and, in fact, for centuries before, too, whenever we've had a radical drop in transportation costs in any particular mode, we've seen a huge increase in that mode. Basically, lower prices equal higher demand. So paradoxically, from this, it sounds like a city with a lot fewer cars will have a lot more traffic on streets. Even though we have fewer personal cars, these cars that are in use are constantly flying around the streets and not just serving the trips that we serve today but serving extra trips that will come from the new demand from lower prices. So I'd like to ask all of you-- actually, I'll put one more thing on the table is that, we've seen cities be hit by surprise when the TNCs came out. And they went to the state level and regulated at the state level-- so effectively, kind of incapacitating cities from doing much because it's regulated above them in its own sector. What needs to happen now, today, to either design, regulate, or plan for AVs, which are not out yet and there's many that are probably hitting the market either this year or early next year in competition with each other-- so that we get closer to the heaven scenario that Robin talks about. What needs to happen in terms of regulating autonomous vehicles in particular, whose costs will be closer to $0.30 a mile as opposed to $2 today-- we're experiencing a huge drop, according to those projections. What do we need to do now so that we inch closer to heaven? So can I poke at that a little bit? So why are AVs going to be so cheap? Well, first of all, the fleet operation is the sort of model that this project is based on, that these are run by TNCs and not the individual operators. Second, the elimination of the human cost, which is about 50% of a TNC today, right? And third, they're bringing into this estimate the technology development until 2035, that the technologies will simply become cheaper at scale. So I want to unpack that a little bit. Because I think that I hear this a lot-- that it's going to be so cheap because you're going to eliminate the human in the loop, basically, which is the cost-- and not just for TNCs but actually for public transit, right? Sometimes people will get very frothy and excited about how cheap it will be to do public transit now because you won't have to have a transit operator. And I just think that is a false assumption about-- and we should think about what kinds of actions we can take in the public sector to make sure that that outcome doesn't necessarily come to fruition. Because I think a transit operator does so much more than just operate the vehicle. They help people with disabilities and older adults get on and off what is a lifeline service for that community. They de-escalate conflict. They are a chaperone in the vehicle. They can observe and potentially prevent sexual assault and harassment. For women in particular and many vulnerable populations, the presence of a human in the vehicle is actually really essential to being able to access and use that service. And I would argue that, particularly as we think about this shared future, as a woman by myself leaving a bar at 1:30 in the morning, I am absolutely not calling for an autonomous vehicle shared with three strangers when there is not a human there-- when there is not a chaperone there. And when I've said this before on panels, men have said, well, we'll just put a camera. Or, we'll just put Watson on the bus. Or, we'll just make it so that if you get assaulted, all the doors lock. Somebody actually said this. And I think this is a real question about who's designing these services-- that they are centering on their own experience as mostly white, mostly male people who can move through public spaces without any kind of fear or threat of being profiled or assaulted. This is a consideration that I think that transit agencies in particular can anticipate and get ahead of. We want to preserve the value of those jobs because they are fundamentally tied to the ability of half of our city to use those services. So those transit operators-- in order for those jobs to still be good jobs-- need to be trained in conflict de-escalation-- maybe advanced medical training to be able to deal with the kinds of populations that they're going to interact with. Maybe there are entertainment companies and others that want to actually invest in that training, because a transit operator becomes the city concierge-- becomes people's guide to actually accessing a whole host and array of services that they didn't even know was available. So I am not sure that I totally buy that those services are going to get cheap if there's a whole population that won't use them if there's not a human or a chaperone in them. And I think there's things that cities can do. For example, in Los Angeles, I regulate taxis. And so we got rid of the driver exam, which was basically an English proficiency exam, and replaced it with customer service training, and overnight increased the number of taxi drivers who were getting into the labor force in Los Angeles by over 30% and increase the number of women who now drive cabs in Los Angeles. So I think there are things that cities can do that are not about pricing, which is one of the hardest conversations to have and certainly one of the most obvious solutions-- but that are about making sure that the value of the service delivered is-- it doesn't plunge to zero. Because I think it's pretty unavoidable. But if that happens, vehicle miles traveled will increase exponentially. Your last sentence is what I think is going to happen. And so taking away public transit that services, depending on your city, 0 to 40% of the trips, what I am hugely anxious about, which is I was thinking when you showed your slide-- that if people if these autonmous vehicles happen to be electric-- I want to say it could go either way. When I talk to car companies, they are ambivalent. They're going to let people decide. Intensively used autonomous vehicles-- they will choose electric. And I was talking to researchers from UC Davis last week, and they're calculating that the marginal cost of moving an electric autonomous vehicle is a penny and a half a mile. And so I want to say that if you own your own, we are now-- we are now in a situation where your decision to take a trip, which we know falls straight down to marginal cost-- but today, it's marginal cost and my body. Now, it's just marginal cost. There's going to be this gigantic explosion of trips, for sure, because now, effectively, it is a penny and a half a mile. What would you not do for a penny and half a mile? I can tell you, I will never pay for even $4 an hour parking at a parking meter, ever, period. So for me, I look at it and I think, most of our transportation ills stem from underpricing and poor market signals. So we're letting pollution go for free, congestion go for free, ridiculously cheap access to curbs and our basic infrastructure, as we know. And so I realize I'm saying things that are politically impossible, but we need to start getting at the root causes for our-- yeah, the root causes for our overdependence and overuse of personal cars. And every time I'm told that's politically impossible, I think, great. So you're just telling me we're going to hell. You can keep telling me this is politically impossible. And I'm saying-- you can say profoundly exactly what's going to happen every time you say that to me. So I think we have to do a huge amount more around political engagement of individuals. And sorry, I'm saying too many things. One more sentence-- if you think about the man on the street-- and I want to say 98% of people who have any power over transportation-- [inaudible] Yes. The person on the street and 90% of people who are in positions of power of our transportation authority entities-- if you ask them, what do you think's going to happen in the future with autonomous vehicles, they're just thinking, those cars there are swapping out and becoming autonomous. That's it. And none of them are imagining either the hell or the heaven scenario. And now, they're imagining, whoa. I don't have to spend 18% of my income on my blasted car to get to my work? I can actually spend a fraction of that? Or I could have active and safe modes so I could have these play streets? We have to make that vision so that it becomes politically demanding that that's what we want to see in the future. OK, well so Andres, when you ask your question about pricing, or marginal costs, or unit costs, I start getting anxious because that's my zone of ignorance, and it's what is my expertise. And I know that's great analysis, but I guess I want to question-- sorry-- question the question. I think a part of the problem is thinking about transport through the lens of something like cost, or unit costs, or marginal costs, and not reminding ourselves-- and of course people who study that-- and it's important to know that analysis-- and again, I'm saying it as somebody outside the field of action-- it's being able to kind of take a step back and think deeply and critique. But I do think that people who look at costs are really thinking about reducing congestion so that you can make a relationship between costs and what you can anticipate will be the number of vehicles out there, et cetera. But cannot we remind ourselves that reducing congestion should be a collective public good? And once you start thinking that the problem is a collective action issue, when you start trying to solve that by looking at unit costs, individual costs, there there's a mismatch in my mind between how you frame the problem and how you want to come to a solution. So I think that-- you mentioned, Seleta, it's a cultural problem of how we think about mobility and congestion. Mobility and congestion is just not-- it cannot only be thought about as being solved by individual units and the aggregation of individual [? ships. ?] I'm getting Back to my point about coordination-- just let me give an anecdote. I've spent many years with very close friends who live in Paris. We were in graduate school together [inaudible].. And I remember one time, a conversation about the difference between the United States and-- we were living in LA-- but American cities and Paris, for example. And our friend mentioned, people in the United States will do anything to save a penny. I mean, they don't think about the larger urban experience. So if you live in Paris, there are no Walmarts in Paris-- maybe there are now-- but you spend a little more money to buy your bread every day. There are things that are more valuable than the unit cost. And those are the collective goods, and the situation that we're creating. I don't think those questions have to be off the table, but I want to make sure that we are educating and changing the culture to think about mobility and congestion as a collective action, problem, or collective good. Last thing I would say about just bringing up Chungcheong, if I could-- so we study the [? mb lee's ?] decisions that-- and I won't go into too much detail about it because I'm already over my time-- but the decision to pull down the highway opened out a whole series of innovations and transportation that he was able to guide and manage and needed to guide and manage. Actually, he didn't care about transportation. That's my view. He cared about real estate development. That's why he took down Chungcheong, but that disrupted the bus system, automobiles, et cetera. But the point here is that he was able to manage a shared cost system so the benefits of one-- cost benefits in one part of this integrated transport system were shared across other. So if we're going to talk about cost, let's talk about shared costs across vehicles and not focus on the individual unit and mobility costs. And that's another way to both take this serious work about pricing, but put it in a collective integrated system context and not just think about the individual units and how individual consumers are going to respond to that. I totally agree. But what we've all been talking about is the fact that we live in a competitive, capitalist society in the United States. And there's tremendous pressure on getting goods and services, moving them as fast as possible, and you feel it. Every time you're driving the car and you're waiting in that turn lane for that gap in traffic, you feel the pressure of the people stacking up behind you. And it will require-- the political will comes from the power of the people. And it absolutely will require different framing of this whole discussion at the ground level. Because let me just tell you that the good people of Manhattan Beach that raised enough money to get that bike lane ripped out, we're not swayed by arguments of collective good or even by the grief of a family that had lost a daughter at an individual level. So we have a really long way to go, in terms of how we organize and talk about as a community-- this a particular challenge. And in that way, I would say that you are firmly part of the field of action. Because I think it will require engagement and activism from academic partners because you have some of the highest levels of public acceptance and credibility among all the actors in the space. I mean, that's survey science right there. And the power that you can help bring to how we tell the story, I think is why engaging in partnerships like this one are so essential and attractive to me, personally. Because it is required now for everybody to get onto the field. I want to change course for a moment to come very much closer to streets and pedestrians, is the question of this debate started out with, and just paint a picture and ask whether you think it's a real problem or not. So during the first wave of modernizations in the 1920s and '30s, we moved from an environment where everybody could cross and walk on streets anywhere they wanted-- there was no market crossing, there was no traffic lights, et cetera. Within two decades, we had traffic lights almost every intersection. We had things like jaywalking. We had crosswalks and zebras painted all over the streets. Now second, and parallel to this, almost everyone-- even though there are so many diverging opinions about AVS-- one thing that almost everyone agrees upon is that they must be safer than current human-driven cars-- that we need to go down from 40,000 human deaths to closer to zero. We now know that it's definitely not zero-- that it's at least one since two days ago. And it probably is going to get worse. So that combined the effects of automobiles in the first wave of modernization with the safety concerns that are being implemented in the AVs now. Imagine the following scenario. You're driving in an AV down a city downtown street. And every time somebody is close to the roadway, your vehicle stops because there's a pedestrian close by, or there's a bicyclists walking by. And then people know that the cars will stop anyhow, because they're mandated by regulation to stop anytime you step on the road. They troll it. They just jump on the road, and they just walk across whenever they want. And meanwhile, here's your $100,000 car. And you look to the right, and then there's a guy in the Toyota Prius of 2015 who zooms by and doesn't stop for those predestines. So all of a sudden, you're moving in sort of stop-and-go traffic while the human cars go by because they don't have the same regulation, et cetera. Now isn't there a huge incentive for the OEMs, the TNCs of the world to lobby cities to increase, again, regulations on streets so that you end up with fewer pedestrians on streets-- sort of what happened in the '20s and 30s? Is that a real threat? Is that a real problem that cities should focus on? Or is that a made-up scenario? I have opinions. [laughter] I think you said something that I say differently. I think that 13 to 21-year-old boys are going to have huge delight in throwing themselves in front of autonomous vehicles out of the gate. I was in Edinburgh on a trolley that was going through a major intersection, and school had just let out, and I'm sitting in the trolley, and this boy comes up and slams the window next to my face, making me leap out of my seat. And I thought, yeah, there's going to be these 13 to 21-year-old boys who are going to take huge delight. So how do I see it playing out? It could play out the way you're discussing, which would be terrible. I'm hoping that we have no rules that are made just for autonomous vehicles. Because then, we'll get super highways. We'll get highways that are only good for cars going fast. And so I definitely don't want us to make things to make autonomous vehicles simple. But I can picture that these are vehicles that are-- they do have cameras, and I will say, we're all going to become-- if people don't like [? cross-fight ?] cameras now [? or ?] vigilance, every single vehicle now is taking photographs 360 as they move through the streets. So how I imagine this is going to be resolved-- and it's still not a lovely picture-- is that, yeah, I'm going to take a picture of that person who, with joy, threw themselves in front of the car. And number one, time number one, you don't do anything. Time number two, you're going to just get a warning. Time number three, you're going to get another warning. Time number four, your parents are going to get a $500 ticket. Is that socially bad? I don't know. Maybe it's not socially bad. Like, I don't want people jumping in front of my bicycle either when I'm on the street because it's fun. It's their right to mobility. But I do see that playing out. I think two things about that. One is, I think that the people who are programming-- the tier ones that are programming and deploying and testing AVs right now are very conscious of that and, therefore, are programming their vehicles to behave more like humans behave. It will be very interesting to see how fast that car was going in Tempe and whether or not it is programmed to speed within acceptable levels, for example. I think it is a real question, in my mind, why it needed to be an SUV in the first place? And the other piece that goes along with that that I'm concerned about is that folks in their very expensive, high-end autonomous vehicles will insist on exclusive access to certain rights of way. Because if your Tesla AV is platooning with a bunch of other folks on the freeway but you all are slowed down because you still have to solve for the 1985 Camry that's puttering along with a human in it next to you-- won't be long before you decide that that Camry ought to be after-market AVed, the same way that we aftermarket smogged our vehicles, or that you will have to pay a lot of money to be able to access these autonomous vehicle networks. Those are the outcomes that I'm worried about along with what I think is something that is a question for us, which has to do with design. The design of the vehicles that are allowed into the central core of our cities in the future ought to be lightweight and low speed. And if they are and they are all have to meet those certain requirements-- and if you don't, even if you're in a Prius, you have to park it on the edge of where you're likely to interact with pedestrians and get into something that's more lightweight, then, we'll solve for this, I think, in a way that will enable a lot of the other outcomes that we want. But that is a huge regulatory lift and not the kind of regulation that we are accustomed to doing in the United States at all. Well, let me respond like the dinosaur that I am. Because when I hear-- well, I love the question you asked and the scenario you laid out. I'm listening to them, hearing about that-- the cars coming in, and my first thought was, oh, this is a great opportunity for social disruption and mobilization. If we want to stop this, we can jump out in front. We can organize social movements. I'm thinking a lot of our students-- [inaudible] Yeah, exactly. I'm hoping that some of our planning students will be out there, too. Then the second one was, oh, well, this might produce a new form of transport stratification. Again, people that want to stay with their Prius versus autonomous-- vehicles built on more by [inaudible],, well, maybe there'll be pressure for separate highways-- so building a separate rights of way. And I'm just imagining this dystopian future, and I don't like it. And I'm not sure if we want those-- we want to accept this. That's my dinosaur coming out. It's like, I know everyone will say, the train is out of the station. Every major auto industry, every IT firm is involved in this. But I hope it's not too late for us to put-- It's too late. --out these scenarios-- [laughter] It's too late. Well, OK but let's think about our skill sets-- what we do here at the GSD. Focus groups laying out-- not just focusing, again, the narrow vehicle and the beautiful pictures, but let's lay out this dystopian possibility that is likely to happen if we don't anticipate the three or four other things that will happen as soon as these are on here. And rather than the thinking about that as a problem to solve with the next technology, which is probably the way we're going to go-- lighter vehicles, et cetera, is it still a possibility to mobilize some thoughts about the future of the cities that we're living in and try to at least direct it in a way that we'd like to have those? Because this particular set of scenarios is not the kind of city that I want to live in, where like more money for these specialized highways for the people that are lucky enough to have bought those BMW blah, blah, blah, et cetera-- and the people can't walk on streets anymore. But if we don't watch out, those will be the lobbyist who are behind the technology in the firms. They're going to be pushing either the Manhattan Beach communities or the city planners to be changing cities to fit the technology. We have to stop this. There is this one sentence I just wanted to throw up there. So for the shared-mobility principles, many companies joining-- some of the companies that are joining are writing these beautiful blog posts about why they joined. This small company in Mexico City, it's called [? jetty. ?] It's a micro transit company. And they wrote this blog post, and I'm paraphrasing. I thought the sentence was so succinct. It said, while the rich drive their new AVs in luxury, the rest of us will be left to increasingly smaller and more congested areas. Because remember, when I own my own car, because the marginal costs are so low, it's like I bought seven cars. Because now, I'm going to be using it for seven times the distances. So it was this incredibly dystopic, yeah, the rich guys go first, and they're going in luxury [inaudible] all their errands. And meanwhile, the rest of us are getting these increasingly tinier little spaces in which to maneuver. So this is not a question I put out. I'd actually like to open it up for the audience's questions. But I would like to say that what Diane said regarding the sort of-- the need to define a broader vision and not just focus on the technology fixing technology, and at the same time what Seleta Robin also said about, in fact, currently, the vision of the future city being worked out by car companies rather than a broader public is an issue where I do think that the academia together with both public and private sectors should play a major role. Somebody needs to paint this heaven vision, and somebody needs to define with equal rigor and equal social credit and to put it on the table, rather than it coming out of the car companies of the future. And we've seen this play out in the smart cities debates. I mean, if you've follow what's happening with the smart cities debate, its sort of a product by product new visions coming out with a very focused idea-- but nothing that sort of paints its externalities that effects together into a broader picture of what this means to live in a future city of this sort. So there's probably an important role for academia and the public sector to collaborate in this to help produce that vision and get it out there with equal rigor as the OEMs are putting out. But that's not to put it into question. I'd actually like to open it up to the audience. There's a mike that goes around. Kevin will bring it over. And we'll take three questions at a time. And then, anyone from the panel can try to answer those. Please. Hello, hi, my name is Jana. I'm a post-doc at [inaudible] MIT. My question is, so now that cars can drive themselves, so we don't have to drive anymore. Do you think people will live further away from where they work, where they go? So there [? is ?] another set of urban sprawl happening? What do you think about this, with autonomous vehicle's impact on people mode choice? What's the impact on the residential location choice and the urban sprawl question? Thank you. There's one over here. The gentleman in the second row. So if the heaven scenario looks like a fleet-operated model, my understanding is that would require a certain amount of density and, as we see, the increasing suburbanization of marginalized communities. What does that edge condition look like? And how does AV work in the suburbs and rural areas? Yeah, thank you. One all the way back to the end. I'm trying to keep you fit, Kevin. He kind of asked my question, in a sense. But I'm particularly interested in like the equity implications of that. Because you already see disparities in ride-hailing availability frequency and cost on top of all of the other rural, suburban, and urban disparities. OK. Let's maybe start with these. OK. So along the west coast, the chronic homelessness that has exploded in the last few years is really evidence of complete failure to build adequate housing for the tremendous job growth that's been coming to the West Coast for the last two decades. And that is really directly as a result of very heavy control, local control of zoning decisions and land-use decisions. And so I think until and unless we are going to move that up, take those decisions literally out of the hands of some of the people who already live in those communities-- and by the way, any time a local community has a high level of influence and control over zoning, that community becomes less affordable and more expensive, full stop. So there's a tension between community engagement involvement and the outcomes that we're getting in terms of the accessibility and opportunities afforded by the city. So transportation often bears the burden of policy failures in other sectors. People have to move because there's a lack of excellence in public education, and they move to get their kids into a better school. Or because we've fail to plan for people aging in place, you have to move closer to where your parents are because they're getting older. And they don't want to move. And all of these things result in longer commutes and travel times. And if we don't price the value of that infrastructure the same way that we price water or power, based on your use, then what we have created is a utility with pretty much bottomless demand being gamed by a system of very poor land-use decisions on top of it, which then results in all of these sort of friction points and and equity issues that will absolutely spark a reinvigoration of suburban sprawl and these long commutes that people make, because they're cheap. Because the cost of the infrastructure is totally invisible. So there's some big lifts there, but they're not necessarily all in the world of mobility. And I would say, we need to think about a new definition of public transit that starts with e-bike sharing and goes all the way up to a subway, and includes everything in between, and has some kind of centralized management so that we stay in the business of delivering public transit as a public good and not for private profit. And the only way we're going to get there is by creating incentives and really being an activist investor on the public side. One of the things we have not talked about at all is the air and how we are going to think about public rights of way that now extend all the way up to 1,500 feet above mean sea level, and that next year, Prime Air and Walmart Air will start using to deliver thousands of goods in the skies over cities and eventually, if you're wealthy enough, people. So there's a necessary moment for the city to rethink of ourselves, and rethink about code as our new concrete, and rethink about our role as inviting private folks into our sphere only if they abide by certain principles that we set. And one of those has to be, absolutely, about the value of that right of way, whether it's above the air or on the surface. I'm so glad, Seleta, you said this piece about drones. It is one my nightmares. So just thinking about-- I know. I am also a hobbit from the Shire. I'm totally terrified. So two small additional points. This piece around sprawl-- and I think it's, again, because of under-pricing-- another piece we've totally under-priced, so it seems really cheap and free. I also think, though, that it's not as though everybody is going to want to decide to live out. Because if you can stay in, one of the reasons I'm staying in is because I want to be able to walk outside and bump into a friend, go have a cup of coffee, do these things unplanned. And another reason I'm not willing to commute for two hours is because there's someone at home that I actually love and want to see. And so the fact that I'm now 15 hours away-- and two hours each way in transit-- as gainfully employed, I'm still that amount of time away from someone. So I just want to say, I don't believe that everyone's going to be moving out. There's some subtlety there. How are things going to play out in these suburban and rural areas? I've been really thinking about it a lot over the last two years. So whenever I am in another place, I think, OK, if I lived here, what would be happening now? Because of cultural reasons, I think people who are living in really rural areas-- they are not thinking that, yeah, I'm going to pull up an app, and they're going to come in 10 minutes, [? like ?] [? it ?] [? or ?] [? not. ?] They will be owning their own primary self-driving car, I think for sure. But I do think their secondary car or their third specialty car will be rented from your neighbors. So I can imagine that playing out. I've been thinking a lot about equity and access-- that imagine you are some small town, population 700 or population 2,000. You could be having your own autonomous vehicle that now can be doing all of that great stuff of taking elderly to the hospital or going to get people to work that, I think, you would have-- you'll be able to have a better public transport and facility service. I think that there's some opportunity there at lower costs than it is today to provide better services. It's still a challenge. I very much agree with what has been said. I'm glad somebody brought up the scary idea of drones-- a terrible thing. Andres and I talked at the radical Amazon transportation summit about that issue-- story for another time. But I guess I'm very happy-- I think I buy your answer, Robin, that, hopefully, people won't be wanting to spend two hours, even if they don't have to drive themselves, doing their email or whatever. But I do think that what you put on the table-- and Seleta already mentioned it is-- what you've put on the table is something we haven't talked about yet but is central to this debate, which is land use. So I mean, really, there's a larger framing of our conversation today that I think we all have to be aware of, which is we have to rethink what is land use-- what land use of [? in-cities ?] should be in the future. As planners and designers, this will include, then, the streets are part of it. It's no longer just this the modernist idea of what gets built on the edge-- you know, what's the combination of commercial residential, et cetera-- that in a way, the problems of mobility are there because of the disconnect between work and home and because of land use. So just as plea, as in my introductory remarks, for our disciplines to not be-- put our heads in the ground, to be too technocratic, and like, identify a slice of the problem-- technology, mobility, without connecting it to the relationship of work and home, land use, et cetera. So I actually think the challenge is to integrate the way we talk to each other as professionals about this question. I think there could be new land use and urban designs that kind of address this problem that maybe wouldn't be thought about by a transport person alone but that really pulls it all together in the physical space of the city. So that's why I do think we have to worry about sprawl. Because also, getting back to the equity issue, one of the downsides of some of the innovations in mobility is, like, the more-access neighborhoods' land values go up, and the poor get pushed out to further places. So we can talk about that as an equity question, and we should, but that's also about who is minding the store, with respect to how all the parts in the whole fit together? And the parts and the whole or the physicality of the footprint of the city, but they're the infrastructure, and they're who's paying the costs of the electricity, the water, et cetera. I know I sound like I'm asking for a return to this impossible dream of comprehensive planning and the way we thought about physical space, but I do think it's time to start looking at the connectivity across the innovations and the technology. And thank you so much, Andres, for having this series and today's discussion, because it would be a mistake if we just think about this as a problem about technology and technological innovation and we don't insert it into these larger sets of questions about what are the cities that we want to be living in, and what should they look like, and how should people who have skill sets across different sectorial expertises be talking to each other about it? OK, let's take another round of three or four questions. Ricardo. Hello, I'm Ricardo Alvares, PhD candidate from MIT. My question is, this week's tragedy in Arizona is going to give us the opportunity of establishing the first legal case when the legal system is going to digest the liabilities of autonomous vehicles. And that digestion is going to generate a series of legal precedents that are going to affect both regulation and adoption. What are the scenarios that you see in terms of those liabilities' dispersion and the effects that it could have towards adoption of these kind of systems at scale? Thank you. In front here. I'm curious about the heterogeneity of different laws affecting autonomous vehicles. So imagine if a self-driving car gets stuck, it can't escape the borders because all the surrounding towns prevent it. And how do they know what the laws are for different regions? OK, I'm going to recite them. Hi, I'm [inaudible]. I work for multiple OEMs, so this is super interesting to me. I was just wondering about what your thoughts are-- in the US, personal car ownership is super important to a lot of people. The per capita car ownership is super high, and it doesn't seem to be falling. We have, I think, close to 800 cars per 1,000 people in the US. So I was wondering how this discussion ties into future personal car ownership. And do you see the rates falling? Or do you see the rates staying the same in the future? OK. So just, quickly, to recite. So first question about, how does the Tempe precedent of killing a pedestrian set scenarios for further implementation in other cities, and what does that mean for the scaling and implementation of AVs? Second, how does the legal heterogeniety of regulation play out so that we can drive a vehicle across municipal boundaries? And third, how or why would the personal love affair with the car end, given the current trends in TNCs and AVs? And why are all these projections arguing that everybody is going to use shared services-- not necessarily shared cars meaning other people in their car, but using a fleet car, like a Lyft and Uber, even if you're alone in it? Can I take the easiest question? If I think about shared cars, which I know something about, when I star Zipcar, everyone said, that will never happen. Americans love their cars. It'll never happen. And I want to say, it's only a million people, so it's not endless numbers. And when I went to Europe recently, they said, oh, Robin, yeah, yeah, people share cars in the US, but in Europe, you don't understand. We have a special relationship with our cars. What I have understood profoundly-- and I think we see in sector after sector and service after service is, people can say those words, but when something is more convenient and cheaper, like whatever. People follow their wallets every time. They follow their wallets. And if it's a convenient one, it's done. So I don't see that. My 15-year-old sentence that I would say is, owning your own car is way less status than me choosing the car for the trip, never maintaining it, never worrying about a car accident-- just paying by the hour. It is a higher form of status for sure. And so that doesn't bother me at all. So I'll take a swing at the question about heterogeneity of laws. And I think that you're seeing this word becoming a dirty word among regulators, which is patchwork. So the OEMs have been very successful in promulgating this falsehood that a patchwork of regulations is going to hinder innovation. And as a result, the bill that was currently moving through the Senate preempts states and cities from doing a whole host of things around managing "system performance," whatever that mushy term means, including things like setting emissions regulations, setting speed limits, doing all of the things that we need to do as cities to manage and operate our streets. And so that idea of preemption being a feature and not a bug of these bills is the response by the private sector in painting that sort of scenario. Our response has always been, look, every time we have tried to write regulations that work nationwide, they fail us in cities, and they give us these terrible outcomes. And all you have to do is look at the national standards for street design to see how that plays out and sort of the ugly outcomes for having to apply the same design standards to a rural road that you do to a street in Downtown LA. So I think it is going to be important for us to put forward cities that we have a way to be air traffic control for all of the vehicles that move in and out of our sphere. And I think you can already see in California, the concentration and proliferation of these services is highest and strongest in San Francisco and Los Angeles. So I don't know that you're going to have this granular city-by-city kind of approach. I do think there's a need for a original thinking-through of this. But I think there's absolutely a way-- and the [? nacto ?] model is the way that we've shown-- that you set a national standard, But. Then your standards for highly urban areas, and it doesn't have to be that complicated. And I'll just say one beat on the Tempe crash. My concern is that, all you have to do is look at the last 50 years of crash reporting in the United States to get a sense of how that's going to go down. Most people in law enforcement and regulation have a strong windshield bias. They're absolutely willing to accept and believe that the fault of that crash was on that woman walking across that damn street at night. And you heard the Tempe chief of police came out and said it-- came out with a statement before getting any data that it did not appear that the Uber AV was at fault. You have zero information, but you're ready to right away assign blame to the most vulnerable person in that interaction. When we talk about accidents and we give people fines for negligent behavior that results in injury and death on our streets, what I would love to see is that the liability rests with the product designer. And the product liability is something that starts when the vehicle leaves the lot and doesn't end until it's out of service. Because I think we would get much better outcomes in terms of vehicle design, in terms of insurance interference, in terms of repair and releasing back into service. When these cars get into crashes, there are zero standards for what the car has to do when you release it back onto the road. These are highly sensitive technical machines now. And so I think that that's the way I would love for it to go, but my strong belief and fear is that it's going to go in the other direction-- push more and more of the onus and liability onto the cog in the machine that's interfering with the operation of the Mercedes, which is a human. I hope we're going to stop getting the questions from the audience soon, because Robin and I was saying, like, we don't have any more answers. But I do want to say that, I think the questions-- we want to focus in on the questions. These are tough questions. I don't have the answers. But these are the questions we need to be asking and having more conversations with more discipline-- [? so one, ?] [? the law, ?] legal. And I'm sure there's discussions, though, from the law school. But now, with these innovations, there's a whole new set of questions that we have to deal with. So that's my first comment. I'm particularly intrigued by the second question about jurisdiction because I hadn't really thought about that. The idea, the possibility, the different municipalities-- and maybe this is so obvious because in LA, where you know you have this huge sprawling sets of places-- but if we start thinking in the tradition of American democracy and institutions that every especially, given their class, given their proclivity-- what kind of vehicle they want-- is going to have a different set of jurisdictions-- because if it's rich in Manhattan Beach, they'll do something different than South Central LA, et cetera. Now, we're getting into a territory that I work in and that is a huge, wicked problem and planning, which is, like, metropolitan coordination. But so what I want to say is, can we turn this into an opportunity. The fact that this might happen-- that we might give differences of opinion based on class, and race, et cetera, income, about what society wants to see with respect to these emerging technologies and that that might create more fragmentation in the urban areas with legal jurisdictions problems for the police, et cetera. Could we use that as an opportunity to go back to some of these wicked problems in urban planning that we haven't solved yet, including metropolitan coordination, and use this innovation as an opportunity to do our jobs like we've been wanting to do them? In other words, not throw up our hands, which I want to do sometimes, but think, OK, people are interested in this question. Maybe this is the opportunity to talk about coordination across scale, which is something-- which, as I started out-- coordination-- when we're talking about mobility and so many other things-- investment, land use, equity, et cetera-- that is, again, the holy grail of planning. But maybe we can bring it up through this question and reinvigorate some metropolitan coordination agencies with a focus on transit. OK, we can take one more batch of questions-- maybe right over here. Hi, I wanted to be a little disruptive and question three of the apparent issues that are agreed to in the discussion up to now. One is that it would be bad to make special rules for the new vehicles. I would argue this is the only chance you have to regulate these things. The SUV only exists because of the loophole put into the CAFE standards over a full populist, oh, gee, the construction workers pickup truck has to be exempted. And the auto companies drove tanks through that loophole. And now, you got all these SUVs, and you've got factories that make SUVs-- those workers are captive of those SUVs. It's very hard to undo that. So if there were special rules for the AVs, I think that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. So I'm disagreeing with-- oh, no, we don't want to differentiate. They're awfully strong now. They're going to get stronger. If you don't put strong regulations in now, that's a problem. Second thing I want to question is, metropolitanism versus localism. I worked 50 years ago with a lot of people in urban neighborhoods in Boston to stop interstate highways going through neighborhoods and to shift priorities towards public transportation. We were lucky we won some of those fights. We would have absolutely lost if we had a metropolitan government. We only won-- NIMBY is one of the more progressive things I've bumped into in my whole career. It was the building block of local communities saying, you ain't gonna do it here, that led to change. And the somewhat uniqueness of what happened in a handful of cities ended up changing what happened in other cities. Ultimately, the Bostons, and the Portlands, and the San Franciscos got to change the law. So parochialism is not such a bad thing. Thirdly, there seems to be a consensus that rationing by price is the right way to do it. Excuse me, I agree with you, Robin-- people pay with their wallet. But some people's wallets are fatter than others. And if the poor are going to be driven out of the cities, which is what's happening, now, you're going to whack them again by saying, you're going to pay per mile. The most democratic way to deal-- there is going to be congestion. We don't build enough infrastructure, we don't build enough transit-- congestion's going to be there. If you ration the congestion by price, then rich people don't deal with the congestion; poor people do. The most democratic way to ration it is to say, hey, you may have more money than me, but I got just as many hours as you do. And I'll stay in this line longer than you. And I'll get to go 15 miles out of the city because you pushed me there by not building affordable housing in the city. So I think there's three near-consensus items-- that price is the right answer, that localism versus regionalism is a bad thing, and that special rules for this new technology would be a bad thing. I want to question all three of those. Yeah, maybe we'll address these first. I maybe just also want to clarify on the localism aspect. I heard two different stories. I heard that for housing and land use that there's criticism that this-- in the context of LA, in particular, has led to a lot of nimbyism and land-use problems. But on the transportation front, I've heard also that, indeed, local authorities should have power to regulate them and manage, strategically, situations. So I'm not clear what the message from the panel on that question was. But let's take a stab. So the first question was about AVs need to be regulated now in order to make a change. The second question was about nimbyism as being, actually, sometimes good-- regulation at the local scale. And third, won't the poor get hurt the most if we start condition-charging by distance? First, let me just answer that first question. I think I started there. I thought, whoa, before there's any stakeholders, before there's any bad business models, let's go address AVs before they get in here. And we're going to say, they need to be zero emission. They need to have pay based on how many people there are in the vehicle. So they need to be based on square footage-- all of these things that we wanted to correct. And very quickly, I found out that there exists some very loud stakeholders already. So I'm not finding that it's particularly easier to say, let's just push everything onto autonomous vehicles and people are going to say, oh, well, I'm not getting one; or, it's not happening now, so I'm not going to fight that battle. We know our political system is already bought by the companies, and there's big companies who are in that fight right now. So anyway, I backed off of that. And that's why I feel like we need to address the problems that have ever been. And so fair-user fees across all modes is something that I'm really fighting for right now, and that includes autonomous vehicles being treated in the same way as I would ask a personal car owner, or a transit authority, or a bicycle-- anyway, fair-user fees across all modes, which we do not have a level playing field now. And that's taken away the huge animosity that I was-- you know, Waymo is not a small company, and Uber is not a small company. And GM is hoping to do-- so anyway, they're not small. They exist. Yeah, and if you feel that way, write your reps. Because we're not making-- I mean, it would be great if we could do a slightly modified version of regulations for autonomous vehicles. That is not the bill that is moving through the United States Senate right now. And there are only two or three California electeds that are holding the line on that bill passing because of the very loud complaints by organizations like NEPCO, by cities-- by states, too. I mean, they're getting cut out of this game also, being able to serve their normal function. And so there has to be more of a groundswell of electeds that are hearing something different in order for them to pay attention. Because I agree with you. Cities, and states, and however you define that still have to be able to play a strong role in order to avoid the kinds of outcomes that we've seen on the traditional OEM side of the house. So it's true. I think we're trying to be opportunistic and ruthlessly pragmatic and attack a problem by turning enemies into allies. Because we are butting up against a real brick wall. I mean, USDOT, when I was there a couple of weeks ago for a listening session on AV regulation-- the deputy undersecretary at the USDOT said, the only things that we care about when it come to transportation is, we want to go as far as we can as fast as we can as cheaply as we can and, basically, whenever we want. That's who's writing the rules for autonomous vehicles. So there has got to be a different vision, a different idea. So I don't disagree with that assumption at all. I think what you're seeing is a kind of a multi-pronged strategy to see where we can get traction and get to some of the outcomes. I think the pricing conversation is tricky because there are absolutely equity issues there to be unpacked and dealt with. And the way I think about it is, Los Angeles passed a sales tax measure that will raise $120 billion for transportation over the next 40 years. How can I take those funds that are under my control and invest in offsetting the prices for some of these new mobility options broadly across neighborhoods? And how can I nudge those choices and opportunities to the neighborhoods where it isn't going to go on its own? These private actors are going to go to where the money is-- Venice, Studio City, Century City. They're not going to go to South LA, and Boyle Heights, and Pacoima. But I can use the dollars at my disposal to nudge them in that direction. And I can think through the pricing question, hopefully, in a way that does allow you if you are in a higher capacity transit vehicle that needs strong access to a reliable point-to-point network, that that trip is cheaper, basically free for you. And if you want to be by yourself in your luxury internal combustion engine vehicle, that trip is going to cost you a lot more. So how can I sort of use all of the pricing strategies at my disposal to directly deal with racial and socioeconomic equity? Yeah, I mean I could never disagree with [? fred ?] [? salvucci. ?] So first of all, let me say that. But I think that I want to say that I didn't support the pricing one. We weren't uniform on that one. The special rules for new vehicles-- I hear what you're saying, and I think it is important. Because maybe we can't wait for the right moment, and the field is changing dramatically or the terrain is changing. And so if we need to start actually having a discussion about regulation, special regulations for these vehicles, I'm supportive of that. I guess the metro issue versus the local-- I think that's an open question. And I think that we need to be thinking about at what scale are we going to be thinking about-- we are talking about mobility, after all. So its very nature is about changing usage across the physical scale of the city. So I think you have so much experience in Boston, and maybe local-- determination's good for some issues and not others. I think it's an open question. But I'm inclined to think about the larger physical scale of the city because I think that's related to sprawl. Transport is all about movement around space. I think, if I could just build on what Seleta just said, that's terrifying to hear about your meeting and the federal DOT. But I think that also puts on discussion here the question about the skills of governance of, where are these decisions being made? I think we have to think what's going to be determined or not at the local, at the metro, and then at the federal. This is the open question. And if decisions are being made out someplace else-- because that's where the direct influence of the automobile companies is, and it kind of filters down-- that's a problem. So at minimum, I'm not going to go to the wall about the local versus the metro. I do think understanding how changes happen and regulation in physical space is absolutely the starting point for thinking about transport. You can't think about it any other way-- how that works, whether there's equal shared responsibility, how those agencies, those so-called metro coordination bodies would work. Who has power? Is there any Democrat accountability? Those are huge questions which people who study metropolitan coordination are still trying to work on. But I am not shying away from understanding the strengths and weaknesses of solving or dealing with this problem at a very local level as opposed to at different scales. I think we have to address it. Great. Well, I think we should wrap up. The speakers will be around maybe for a few minutes if there's any burning questions you want to ask the speakers personally. I do want to thank you all for coming and being on the panel. And also, great thanks to Kevin Chong, who had to run out, but he made the logistics of this possible. So thank you very much for being here. [applause] 