 Best Things to Know about Uber Flying Taxis (female voiceover) Hi guys! Would you love to fly in the air, stretching arms wide while enjoying the beautiful view of the city? Well, that dream is coming to reality! Uber is known for its taxi services and industries throughout the world. Do you know Uber is introducing a new innovative way in its transportation service? They are now inventing flying taxis for their customers! The Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said that commercial flying Uber taxis could happen in the year of 2023! Imagine how cool it will be! If you dream to travel in the air, here's your chance to experience the view from the top! Don’t you want to know about the features of this future creation? Buckle up, coz the facts won’t stop coming! Here are some of the exciting things about these flying taxis that could make you jump with excitement! The First Look at the Design: Known as “Uber Air”, flying taxis could be a new futuristic experience for many people. The concept is all running on electricity! The seats of 4 people with one pilot and the whole thing are shaped as a cylindrical body. It also has large windows that could be breathtaking for riders! These flying taxis are supposed to be running at the speed of 150 to 200 miles per hour which would be the best thing one can enjoy in saving a lot of time! They are using stacking rotors, to make these taxis lighter to pick up speed in the air. This whole thing will create a new experience for the passenger to have best riding comforts. Unlike helicopters, these flying taxis would have a cluster with propellers on top that would run on electricity, making it more viable and efficient to run. It has the feature of electric vertical takeoff and landing (eVol) that makes it a unique type of concept. It can run up to 60 miles in a single charge! But Uber claims that it is currently in the designing phase, and they are researching a lot more to add and present the best design which comes up with better benefits. Running With or Without Pilots: Many people dream to ride in aeroplanes and Uber is helping them in achieving that beautiful feeling! Now, instead of driving, you could just directly fly to your destination only by using the Uber App on your phone! This concept was first thought to run flying taxis with the pilot, but now, they seem to run themselves autonomous! The Uber hopes to launch its first service in 2020 in the Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas and Los Angeles. The company sets out a detailed plan to fill the skies, and it also announced its partnership with NASA to model an urban air-traffic control system. But the question still remains whether they have taken any precautions of the safety of the passengers. The Cost of Riding Uber Taxis: The Uber head of Elevate, Eric Allison spoke in his interview about aerial ridesharing that it needs to be competitive with the variable cost of the car ownership. He imagined that the passenger could just book their rides and move to the platform from where they can ride these Uber flying taxis. He wants to create a network where the regular people could take this taxis and skip the traffic at affordable prices! The cost is estimated to be between $0.464 per mile. However, Uber Air will not be that cheaper at the launch. They want this program to move forward and let people accept it completely. Initially, it will cost $5.73 per passenger mile. But, Uber says that it will get the cost down to $1.86 per passenger! At that point, it would actually be cheaper to use Uber Air for the people of America! The Uber Flight Plan: The key tenants for the Uber Air are to have 4 riders in each vehicle and so that the cost of the ride would go down. And, with the feature of Uber Ride Sharing, it could be more comfortable for the people to afford the cost of travelling and this is what Uber is about. But, Uber is facing a tremendous amount of loss. Still, they are bringing such massive projects. When in an interview, the CEO of Uber was asked about that, he said that it is the ambition of why the Uber was founded for. They would face ups and downs, but it will not stop these innovative ideas to make the company grow by introducing flying taxis for their customers. While Dara Khosrowshahi is focused on future, there has been a complaint filed against an Uber driver who accidentally killed a pedestrian while auto-driving. Surprising, isn’t it? But, the company is waiting for the result of the investigation done by the police. What do you think about this? Dara Khosrowshahi is focusing not only to improve the unpleasant past of the company, but he is telling to make Uber safe even for the female employees to work too! Every year there are many women who are the victim of sexual harassments. He wants to ensure proper growth that could bring better results in the future for their customers, including the launch of Uber Air. He says,” You got to set some aggressive goals to push teams and people to make those goals into action!” The company is also partnered with NASA technology to control the air traffic that could prevent crashes. Already many personal aircraft are battery operated and some of them are presently running in Dubai. Hmmm Seems like Uber doesn’t want to be missed out in such innovative technology! In October 2016, Uber released a 90-page full paper online in which they demonstrated their idea of covering a 2-hour drive in just 15 minutes by flying in the air! It has been estimated that residents in Los Angeles spend a majority of week working. They got stuck in traffic which can be a major problem for many. Uber is trying to change their infrastructure and want to make an average ride cheaper by sing this modern concept of flying taxis. It could revolutionise the entire transportation system! The advanced technology has provided practical grounds, and it has proved that such things are possible to bring into reality! The year 2023 isn’t far now, and you can imagine how amazing it would be for the people to make their travelling experience more beautiful and adventurous! So, which feature of the Uber Flying Taxi interested you the most? Tell us in the comment section below. Subscribe to our channel if you liked this video. And while you're here, check out our other videos and tell us what you think of them. You can also find us on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. Thanks for watching. 