 Hello, everyone. Before I begin, I have a question for you. Did Einstein believe in time? Now you're probably wondering why I'm asking such a question at a SAP TechEd talk. Well, first of all, to capture your attention, I hope I was successful with that. Second, I believe there is, in fact, an interesting correlation because time plays a critical role when we talk about business and technology. Einstein showed us that time is an illusion and it is actually relative and it can vary for different observers depending on your speed through space. People who actually believe in physics, they know that the distinction between past, present and future is only an illusion and true reality is timeless. But what do Einstein's ideas now of special relativity have to do with business strategy processes and execution? In many ways we see the past as the evolutionary journey of where we came from in ERP. With almost 50 years of experience. SAP has been the market leader in this industry with the transition from a heritage of on-premise client server software to a new reality now of cloud based businesses, processes and services. To a revolutionized intelligent ERP, it's an ecosystem of the future that will actually see several paradigm shifts in the industry. And with the changes in business environments, ERP is also changing. It has to change. And COVID-19 is accelerating this trend for sure. The future of intelligent ERP exhibits the future of intelligent businesses, and with that we have to reinvent how businesses run. This is how we know that by influencing the present, we make it our future and our vision is what makes it timeless. So my name is Jan Gilg and I'm the President of SAP S/4HANA. And today I would like to give you an update of our broader strategy and within that, the role that SAP S/4HANA plays for SAP. So if you look into our overall strategy and we just came out of an extensive exercise of refreshing our strategy in which we call to reinvent. And you can see the picture here that shows at the heart of everything, the Intelligent Suite, which is really SAP S/4HANA and all our LoB solutions that we have partially acquired over the last couple of years, but also build organically. Next to it, you see the industry cloud, and that is rather new. We have started to build that out since the beginning of the year. And this is really an idea of building now vertical specific, vertical applications that are complementary to our Intelligent Suite, that are tightly integrated into our Intelligent Suite. But they can differentiate, you know, for our customer in their respective industry. And we have done that together with our partners. So this is also a big partner ecosystem play. And we have seen initial partnerships already, for example, with Honeywell. What we're doing, you know, in the real estate space or intelligent building space. There are other partnerships that are in the making and many partners that come on board and build specific capabilities where they see white spaces from SAP and complement with our portfolio. There's a bunch of cross topics that are super critical and those represent also growth drivers for us since they are very adjacent to what we're doing in the core. One topic obviously is Experience Management. This is something we have talked about since the acquisition of Qualtrics, embedding Experience Management and experience data into our end-to-end processes that we cover with our transactional systems and with that driving additional insights by combining operational data and experience data, we can really drive those insights that are unprecedented. Another cross topic is sustainability management, and we have started to talk about that since the beginning of the year. And I believe that at the end of the day, this is something where, SAP really has truly a right to win. Think about the fact that more than 70 percent of the world transactions touch an SAP system, the breadth that our portfolio is covering in terms of end-to-end business processes. So we really see supply chains end-to-end, we understand how products are being made, how they are shipped across the globe, and what their carbon footprint is actually that's being created while doing so. And going forward for our customers it's not going to be optional to take sustainability into consideration when they take corporate decisions. If they decide, they want to build a new plant, they have to take sustainability aspects into account. And we want to be there and be, you know, available to offer that kind of information again, give customers the ability to simulate different options and then also being able to put that in action right away. Changing, you know, certain trading partners, changing and adjusting supply chains in terms of what kind of materials to be bought from, which supplier in which country and so on. So this is the strength that SAP has and therefore, sustainability management will be a core component and we introduce that as a third dimension into our ERP system. Next to looking into profitability and operational efficiency and second into growth and how to support with SAP S/4HANA, the growth of our customers. And the third dimension is, like I mentioned, sustainability. We call it the "Green Line". This is really giving them then an additional decision criteria on, you know, based on carbon footprint and based on the usage of natural resources and so on. So it's certainly a big, big topic and you will hear us talk about that more and more in the coming months and years. Another cross topic is really business network. We did acquire the largest business network a couple of years ago with Ariba with a strong focus on procurement. In the meantime, we build other networks in the supply chain space for logistics or for asset intelligence. And we are bringing this together now into one holistic, unified SAP network for customers by virtue of being an SAP customer. We will connect you into this network, extend your processes end-to-end into your network and actually connect to your trading partners, whether those are suppliers, third party logistics providers, banks, whatever they are. And with that, we also allow visibility into those networks, which is super critical, as we have seen now in the last couple of months through the pandemic. Last but not least, the Business Technology Platform is obviously front and center of our platform strategy. We are building our innovation from SAP on the Business Technology Platform. We invite our partners to build their innovation on the Business Technology Platform and we are building industry innovation on the Business Technology Platform. And that is going forward really the target platform for SAP. And this is why we put so much emphasis on that. You know, it will offer the ability to connect into the SAP world, to integrate into the SAP world. We will expose our domain models, our data models on this platform. So it will be front and center of our strategy going forward. So let's look into SAP S/4HANA. You see, it's positioned right at the core of the Intelligent Suite and it does cover a broad range of capabilities from finance over ERP to digital supply chain. And this is certainly not going to change. It sits side by side with other solution areas like people, you know, everything around human experience management, then Intelligent Spend Management with, you know, some of the acquisitions, SAP Ariba and SAP Fieldglass, but also SAP Concur. And then finally, SAP Customer Experience. So SAP S/4HANA at the center of the Intelligent suite. And then let's look into how ERP as such is actually evolving. You know, for those that remember in the early 90s and early 2000s, it was pretty much a very monolithic proprietary stack and it was all ABAP based. And you know, We had the business suite but at the end of the day, they were all sitting on the same stack. And then the cloud came and customers started to look out for capabilities that they could easily deploy in the cloud, typically driven by the line of business. And we saw that many capabilities actually moved into the cloud, like procurement, like sales force automation and so on. But they had to be integrated back into the core. And that has caused a lot of effort and also on the IT side. And that became the new art, so to speak. How do you run end-to-end processes now across a hybrid landscape? Going forward we do believe that the advantages of having the flexibility of such an architecture will outweigh the complexity of integration. And if a company can offer this kind or ease the kind of integration to our customers, I think those will be the winners. And this is exactly what we want to do. We want to continue to evolve ERP into a composable suite, which means you have pieces of LoB functionality that have to be best in class. They have to be able to compete with the best of breed vendors in the market, but they come actually pre-integrated along those end-to-end processes, which has always been the strength of SAP. We've always shipped best practice and in the cloud we do that even more prescriptive. We continue to evolve those best practices and content development is equally important than code. So we will always ship those end-to-end capabilities along those end-to-end processes. And the glue in between is the called suite qualities. So we make sure that each of them LoB capabilities has built in certain qualities like a unified user experience, like unified domain model, technical aspects and characteristics like a unified provisioning and the same downtime windows and maintenance cycles. So those things will then make it again a suite but it offers customers an individual point of departure for their journey to the cloud and for their digital transformation towards an Intelligent Enterprise. And I think it's critical to understand that then we will be able to package commercially very differently and give customers much more flexibility there while technically we are decoupled and this is what we are, this is what we we're working on, of course we do that because customers demand that, it's all driven by customer demand and customers do need the flexibility and agility in order to react quickly to changing environments and changing business requirements, and this is not possible if you sit on a monolithic stack, and this is why we're going to continue to evolve our architecture towards a composable suite. The other aspect that supercritical in this context is data. I believe that ERP will become extremely data driven. The transactional aspect will become secondary because transactions will be automated more and more. And we already see with SAP S/4HANA an increased degree of automation compared to the ECC world before, because we are embedding technologies like machine learning or robotic process automation. So you split the world basically into commodity processes which are really focused on cost optimization and automation, where we deliver best practices and standardization. And this is what customers are looking for. They do want to standardize on those processes. They don't want custom code and extensibility there anymore. They really want to focus on operational efficiency. On the other side, you have the differentiating world and you will always have that differentiation. And customers want to be able to build out those processes where they believe they are differentiating. They can use the SAP Cloud Platform to do so and we again will give them intelligence actually in the system that helps them make the right decisions. And this intelligence is actually based on data and it's not only the operational data. We have embedded that already since the inception of SAP S/4HANA where we said, one of the key value propositions has always been the convergence of OLTP and OLAP workloads. And we have embedded analytics into each transaction and given, you know, recommendation and insight in the moment. Now we are taking that a step further, we allow other data sources to come in, like the experience data or like sensor data in our Iot or Industry 4.0 scenarios we actually connect to machines, we collect this data and we optimize manufacturing processes and again, create insights which wasn't possible before. Let me give you one example of an intelligent process and how we do that. If you take the invoice to cash process: 90 percent automation is what we're seeing here. And let me take you step by step through that so you understand that it's always a combination of different technologies that we use in order to automate and make those processes intelligent. So starting here with an incoming remittance advice that's detected and loaded into SAP S/4HANA and we're using a bot here based on Robotic Process Automation technology that's built into S/4. Second then the payments, the details I extracted, the payment advices are created in SAP S/4HANA and the payments are matched with open receivables. And this is where we use machine learning algorithms in the background. Then the system alerts the user that one of the invoices due was actually excluded from the payment. This is where we use situations technology. That's a framework that we build into S/4 that really allow us to monitor business events in the background and then react and pull in the user based on exceptions. Afterwards a dispute case is created and the e-mail is sent to the customer. Again, that is done by a bot. The same is true for the monitoring of the mailbox and attaching the customer reply to the dispute case, again, those are all bots that at work here. So everything that's competitive by nature and very competitive by nature is done by bots in the system. And then finally, the user uses actually the conversational AI, which is our digital assistant, to find and retrieve the dispute case details. So you can see how we make this whole process intelligent by combining different technologies that we have within SAP S/4HANA. And we do that throughout all the processes that we support. So with that, we also reimagine a lot of the processes. They really work very differently than they used to be in the past because we don't have those technological limitations anymore. And there's more to come, so we continue to deliver, you know, use cases and intelligent processes and there are some deep dive sessions available then here at SAP TechEd as well. You can see them referenced here just to name a few examples of self-auditing finance, where we actually empower the finance system to monitor itself based on and check whether it's still in compliance or not. And in case there's a deviation, basically take some self healing measures in order to get back into compliance or pull the user in if necessary. It's always both routes. How much automation do you allow the system to do? It always has to do with trust and then you always have the ability to pull in the user parallel ledgers and currencies, something that is really redone end-to-end within SAP S/4HANA, leveraging the power of the underlying HANA database or next generation just in time processing or creation of sales order based on unstructured content. So this is all happening here, this is all functional innovation that we deliver based on technologies that are intelligent. And then finally, you saw that SAP S/4HANA sits in the center of the Intelligent Suite. It's also at the core of the Intelligent Enterprise. So, we discuss those end-to-end micro processes that we are offering and that we are covering. And SAP S/4HANA is actually being touched by all of them. What now is necessary if you think about an end-to-end process that always includes more than SAP S/4HANA as a solution. For instance, also SAP SuccessFactors or SAP IBP or whatever it is, you need to have certain central tools. So it makes the solution look and feel like actually one product. And that is, for example, the central business configuration. This is something we had just released and it is actually the tool then to push configuration into all of the connected solutions it works for now with SAP S/4HANA in the cloud but we will continue to evolve that really as a tool to enable to the Intelligent Enterprise. And then I discussed the suite qualities. There's also a deep dive session available here at SAP TechEd. You see some of the examples here, you know, the user experience I mentioned, but also easier things like the one workflow inbox. If you think about connected solutions, they all have usually their user notifications and workflows bring it all together into one inbox. Aligned domain models, as I mentioned and we will also expose those domain models into the SAP Cloud Platforms. So make it possible then for the partner ecosystem to come in and build again solutions, leveraging those domain models and easily integrate into the SAP world. The architecture evolves I mentioned the modernization modularization that is necessary on the ABAP side. We continue to modernize the stack here and also modularize that is necessary to achieve the vision of a composable ERP. Even within ABAP and ABAP is not, I don't see ABAP going away anytime soon, but in parallel we also innovate on the SAP Cloud Platform. I mentioned that we are building new capabilities on the SAP Cloud Platform, whether those LoB capabilities or industry capabilities. We do that jointly with our partners and then eventually the SAP S/4HANA suite will really be a combination of composable services that are sitting on different technologies. But for the customer, at the end of the day, it doesn't matter in the cloud anyway because he consumes a service, he buys at the end of the day and SLA and we offer him and assemble him the solution that he needs. So let me talk about the topic which I believe is really critical going forward, which is extensibility. If you remember, especially in the on premise world, obviously it was possible to extend SAP ERP the way you wanted it to. In fact, the ERP platform was pretty much a development platform because there was no restriction by SAP If you could to use any technical object that was available and they're like any function module or any class, everything could be used by a developer in order to extend and put their own code in there. Also, it's possible to change the code that SAP delivers, which is called a core modification, and that has then over time really made it almost impossible or extremely difficult for our customers to upgrade their system. And we have seen already with the adoption of the former enhancement packs and ECC and now also with the releases in S/4 that customers are starting to fall behind, they cannot consume, even though they want to own the latest innovation that we ship. And therefore we said we need to get a better grip on extensibility and we need to bring in more of a cloud mindset in terms of, you know, what is allowed and what's not allowed. We also see that in the on premise worlds, the side-by-side extensibility has not really caught on yet entirely. So we see that many customers starting to adopt the SAP Cloud Platform. They start to build some of the extensibility on the SAP Cloud Platform. But by and large, still a lot of development happens on the ABAP platform in terms of extensibility. So what do we want to do going forward? So first of all, we do want to protect the core much more, just like we do in the SaaS world and SAP S/4HANA Cloud. We actually don't allow core modification, obviously no cloud provider would ever allow that in order to be able to upgrade the system, which we do once a quarter. What we are going to introduce in the Public Cloud is actually a new extensibility concept with so-called "Steampunk". So that's an ABAP environment that is much, much more powerful than the existing in-app extensibility that we have today. in SAP S/4HANA Cloud. We will offer then a couple of thousand internal APIs that are stable and that can be used by developers to extend the solution in-app. And then on the SAP Cloud Platform obviously it's possible and we will push this much more to extend the solution side-by-side. And here again, we have two environments, we have an ABAP environment again with Steampunk on the SAP Cloud Platform and we have a JAVA environment where you can then interface into SAP S/4HANA. The prerequisite for that is obviously that we offer APIs and by the end of 2020 we already offer more than 420 APIs in the Public Cloud. We have already downported downparted this year, a lot this year, a lot of those APIs in your on premise world. And we continue to heavily invest actually in building out APIs because that's a prerequisite that this whole thing is going to work. In the on premise world it's always optional. I can't forbid a customer to modify their system. We can make this more attractive financially, potentially, you know, and we can help with governance and guidance. We are working with the SI community to really help the customer to keep the core clean. I think that's really a prerequisite in order to allow them to to consume the innovation that we ship. And I think at the end of the day, it is almost bringing a cloud mindset and also in the on prem world. And this is what we hear from many, many customers that they want to do that. And we see many partners that have started to embark on that journey already with us. They started to build on the SAP Cloud Platform. Even former partners that have built build add ons in and ABAP, they are now looking into how can I do that and offer that in more of a side- by-side way that is decoupling it from the life cycle of the underlying core application. So here we also have a deep dive available at SAP TechEd, and I think that topic will be front and center for us in the next couple of months. Speaking of how we deliver and how we ship innovation to our customers, you know, we do have a cloud-first policy, so we develop in the cloud-first. We make that available every quarter today to our customers. And then once a year, we down-port this into the big on premise release, who just released SAP S/4HANA 2020. And going forward, we will continue to see a release to customer, but probably not four times a year because we get the feedback that this is too much and we scale it back to three times or two times a year. However, we also introduced so-called continuous feature delivery. So we will just like in a cloud native SaaS like environment, also in ABAP, continuously ship features into production. They will not be available for customers immediately. They will be toggled and they can be made available on request. So this is also something where customers often tell us, you know, I need something. I know it's coming in the next release. Maybe it's already ready. So why don't you make it available to us and we don't have the means to do that today. So we will have that available very shortly. We have actually started already to do that and we will increase the amount of code that we ship actually continuously then over the next couple of years and months. So for us, super critical supercritical, continuous feature delivery from a way how we develop and how we make innovation available. And then for our customers critical only two or three release to customers where they have then to consume all this innovation and then the on premise world it remains with once a year. SAP S/4HANA is available in the cloud and on premise. So there's two product variants basically. They do have things in common, though. One thing to mention is certainly the joint semantic, but also the joint data model and the unified user experience. Also, I talked a lot about intelligence and how we make those processes more intelligent and that's available in the cloud as well as in on premise. And then integration, a very critical topic where we have invested heavily in the last two years and we continue to focus on. In the cloud. we have released a lot of out-of-the-box integrations now with our acquired LoB solutions like SAP Ariba, SAP Concur, SAP Fieldglass and so on. And we have worked in 2020 specifically to also bring that into the hybrid world, which is the reality for many of our customers. So we continue to make those integration scenarios available for both worlds, cloud to cloud as well as on premise to cloud. In the cloud itself, we obviously focus a lot on operational experience and the cloud qualities because we as a provider take care of everything there. We update the system and we operate the system completely for the customer. The customer basically just pays a subscription. At the end of the day, is interested in the SLA that we could deliver, but not so much in, you know, how we operate the system and how we do that. So we focus a lot on the so-called cloud qualities. In on premise it's still obviously completely the choice of our customers, what they do with the solution. And I mentioned before I talked about extensibility. Of course, customers can change the code that we ship, but we want to encourage them not to do that and maybe help them not to do that. But at the end of the day, they own the solution. What's important, in my opinion, is that they are very flexible with how they deploy the solution. They can do that in their own datacenter, they can do it on a hyperscaler, or on a private cloud, where we also offer a solution. But it's all basically, the on prem code line, if you will. What's critical is that we will continue to ship innovation there as well I mentioned that with the release strategy that we have and we've given a commitment until 2040, at least for SAP S/4HANA. So we will continue to provide an innovation roadmap for those customers and I think that is pretty unique in the marketplace. And that is a commitment that you get from SAP that your investment here is also protected for the years to come. Having shown you where our journey in ERP began, you have seen how our future has grown to increasingly influence our present strategy. We are blurring the lines between times with technology and creating spaces for innovation. In the same way that our strategy links our future with what we face today and the speed with which we reach tomorrow. We are committed to keep up this momentum with passion and the right technologies for our customers and to keep the enterprise intelligent. Thank you for joining my session today. We are really looking forward to your participation in further sessions to discover SAP S/4HANA. Thank you very much. 