 Hello. I am Federico Venier. I am in HPE Storage Technical Marketing. I want to talk with you about how to protect your environment against ransomware and why you have to consider HPE and,  in this case, specifically HPE StoreOnce in your backup strategy for protecting against ransomware. So ransomware, I guess you all know about ransomware. Ransomware is a malware that is able to get installed by just clicking an attachment in an email in your servers. And it is able to encrypt your production data. A particularity of ransomware  is that the infections work and progress very slowly. But after some time you will discover that your files inside your application,  inside your production are encrypted, and you will discover it really suddenly, usually after a couple of months, because it is at that point that the  ransomware uninstalls the pass-through driver that makes your files visible and readable, even if they are already encrypted. So at this point, usually what you want to do is use your backup application that is running here. Whatever it is, it could be Veeam, it could be NetBackup, it could be whatever you want, to make a restore, but the key point is where you have saved your data. So if you have saved your data, your backup data from your production using your backup server to a normal kind of disk, then you see your backup files as they are in the E disk, directory, something.  Ok, so at this point the ransomware was able to encrypt your production data.  But this is another Windows server, so the ransomware is also able to infect this server. And when the ransomware is able to run inside this server, it is also able to encrypt all the files, all the backup files that you have inside this disk. At this point, you have the perfect disaster because you have your production encrypted,  you have your backup file encrypted, and you can't make a restore.  So why I say that StoreOnce gives you an additional layer of protection?  So imagine if you write your data to StoreOnce, instead of writing your data  to a normal disk. The difference is that here you are using a protocol  that is named Catalyst. So Catalyst is a different protocol.  It is not a protocol that is known by the OS. It is known by Veeam, by the backup application, but not by the OS. So ransomware, an application,  the process that is running as an administrator inside the OS of this server, has no visibility of the content of StoreOnce because StoreOnce is not visible as a disk, it is not visible as a NAS share,  it is not visible as a local disk. So whatever you write here is invisible for ransomware, and ransomware is unable to encrypt this data. So at this point, if you need to make a restore, StoreOnce is still available and you can make your restore and restore the encrypted file to the original value to the original content. This is the reason why you should consider StoreOnce in your data protection strategy against ransomware. 