 HPE Primera storage arrays make it extremely simple to keep your system software up to date by applying your own updates. This demo will show you how it's done. Here I'm logged into InfoSight, where I can see that my Primera system is running an OS version 4.0.3. There are no recommended updates for the current OS version, but there is a new OS version available. If I am not sure how to do the update,  I can hover over Update, which tells me that I can log on to the Primera UI to do it myself. If I prefer, I can still arrange for HPE to do the update for me. However, once you see how easy it is to do on your own, I think you will feel very comfortable with that option. For the details of the enhancements in this release, a link to the release notes is right here. Now let's go to the Primera UI. This is the main dashboard of the Primera UI. All Primera software updates are done 100% online. To demonstrate that, I have started up a host workload at about 3000 I/Os per second, which you can see in the performance area on the right of the screen. The banner at the top draws our attention to a new alert and the link takes us to the Alerts tab where we see the OS update that's available. The banner and icon are yellow, which indicate a minor alert. If it were a critical OS update, it would be considered major and would be coded in red. At the System Software screen, another banner alerts us to the recommended updates. HPE InfoSight  is aware of each system's unique hardware, software, feature set, and host OS types. Its advanced algorithms use the telemetry from the thousands of systems in our install base to tailor software recommendations to each array's specific configuration. The new software is then downloaded and staged onto the array. If you want to, you can turn those features on and off, using the toggles you see here. I also want to note that even if you have a dark site not connected to InfoSight, you can still perform your own software updates. It's easy to download them from HPE and upload them onto the array, using this button. As we saw on InfoSight, the current OS version is 4.0.3 and we can click on Component Versions to see what that consists of. We can see the history of updates and the new one that's available now. If I didn't click on the release notes in InfoSight, I have another opportunity to do so here. As soon as the package is downloaded from InfoSight, the array automatically runs system readiness checks to check the viability of the software and system health, so everything is ready to go when you are ready. We are all good, so let's go  apply the update. Small software updates take only about five minutes or so, but this is a full OS update, which is estimated to take 45 minutes. This video is considerably shorter, though, as I've done some strategic fast forwarding. As you probably know, it's always best practice to be at a version of host OSs and SAN drivers and firmware that have been tested by HPE. The HPE SPOCK website has support matrices you can reference to verify your environment. But an easier option is to use HPE's Network Orchestrator software, which will run a compatibility check against your SAN components for you and produce a report of HPE recommendations. As the update progresses, we can monitor it with the status bar at the top of the screen. I will fast forward, but I will pause along the way to point out a few things of interest. The system automatically puts itself into maintenance mode when necessary. Alerts will still be logged on the system but won't be passed along to InfoSight so that HPE support  won't be notified unnecessarily. When maintenance mode is no longer needed, it will be removed. The Primera UI is one of the processes that runs on the system, and it may need to be restarted as part of the update. If that's the case, the UI will temporarily become unavailable, as you see here. However, if that does happen, there is no need to log back in. The system will do it for you automatically. We now have only 2% left to go, and as a final step, the system does a health check to make sure everything is operational. The update and the admit hardware that goes along with it are still running but are almost done, and everything has now completed successfully. The current version shows as 4.1 and the history of updates on the system reflects the most recent update. The task for the update shows that it completed in just over 38 minutes, which is actually less than was originally estimated. And, of course, the system stayed up and serving data to its host throughout the entire process. When the system reports its status back to InfoSight, we can see the new OS version reflected here. I hope you enjoyed this video. For more information, visit hpe.com/storage. 