 Hi everyone, I'm Sarah. and I am here today at Blue Shore Financial  in the beautiful Vancouver BC. We're getting the world's first look at HPE Primera, a revolutionary new storage platform for mission critical apps. So let's see what the buzz is about and meet the peeps. [inaudible]. I am here with not only one, but two of Blue Shore´s finest, CIO, Fred Cook and Technology Guru Ryan Burgess. So guys,rumor has it that you are  the first customers in the world to get this. You know what? Not a rumor. It's true.  We're very excited about it. When I heard about the HPE Primera system, I said, Ryan, how do we get first in line? Anytime we can find a competitive edge is a huge bonus  for us to work smarter, not harder. And for me 100% uptime. Super critical. Oh, sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. Actually you guys, I just got word that your HPE Primera is  on the loading dock right now. So should we go check it out? Yeah, that's great news. I've got to run to a meeting right now. I'm looking forward to catching up with you guys after. Okay. Sounds good. Let's go. Okay. So what about HPE Primera are you most excited about? Well, we're really excited about the innovation. It's gonna help us move our business along faster  and quite frankly we won't have to Babysit it. Ugh, babysitting tough gig. Exactly. That's why we bought HPE Pri mera.  It takes care of itself. Should we open it up? Let's do it. Everybody ready for the magic? Wow, that is some cutting edge technology. Let's get this bad boy inside. Okay, so this is the HPE Primera. Tell me what is going on inside of here?  Is it magic? Is it Elves? Please tell me it's Elves. It's Elves, isn't it? Yeah, no Sarah, it's not Elves. Okay, so what we have inside here is HPE's advanced  AI engine called Infosight. And the fantastic thing about Infosight is that it takes care of this machine for us 24 by 7 without us having to do anything at all. And it even connects to other devices we have  and reports it back to the cloud. So it does everything...  Infosight, can you text my mom? No, that is not how it works. So I was just saying if you knew. So do we basically just call support now  and then they come and they set it up in like a week? Nope, this is 100% self installable. I'm sorry, so we're going to install it like right now, like today? We are going to install it. Don't worry. It's gonna be a piece of cake. Really. Alright, I'm going to time you then. Okay, let's get it to the server room. I'm taking the Dongle. Alright. Halftime, can you give us a play by play of what you're doing here? Okay, Sarah. What we've done first, we racked  the controlling nodes that's the brains of the system. Next we installed the dish shelves.  The dish shelves are where all the storage is, that's where we keep everything. Now we have to move on to cabling and power, Cabling is one of the hardest parts. The good news is HPE has provided us with an app  that makes it super simple. So are we ready to just, plug it in? We are. And you know what, Sarah, do the honors. This? here? That's the one. Bam. That's one small switch for me, one giant leap for storagekind. [inaudible] okay, so we installed the hardware. What's next? It's all ready to go. The system is auto discovered and  it makes it easy to set up and configure. HPE has automated all the knobs, and the HPE team has built a slick UI so that with a couple of clicks I can do software updates. I can probably have this thing ready in a few minutes. Prove it. I will. We're ready to rock! Listen, I was thinking I we can just go to an Elf Depot, get it. Oh, hey Fred, we were actually just looking for you. WOW. Are you guys finished already? Yeah. What was it like 20 minutes from start to finish? Yes. This must be really big deal for you guys? Oh, this is huge. I can really see it as leveraging that AI  to really move forward in our digital transformation. And that in turn is are going to allow us to really focus  and push the business forward. Well, that is amazing. And you know what else is amazing? Is that the HPE Infosight is now the one who's managing it. So my last question for you is, what is the IT department going to do with all this extra time? Ya know, I've got some ideas... {music} No, let's just get back to work. There you have it.  The first ever look at the new HPE Primera. The easiest to manage high end storage platform ever created and installed right here by Blue Shore Financial. Bye. 