 My name is Christophe Bertrand, senior analyst with Enterprise Strategy Group. If it seems that every day, the news is filled with stories of cyberpiracy or data being held hostage by nefarious actors, well, it's because it is the unfortunate reality. Cybercrime, including ransomware, is rampant. And it creates significant challenge for protecting data across many organizations and also complex recovery processes. All those recent research shows that 60% of organizations report experiencing at least one attempted ransomware attack in the last 12 months. Ransomware is a business interruption event that affects data and application of time and thus, comes with significant consequences across the board. Business and technology leaders are naturally very concerned about the risks associated with destroying mission-critical data assets that can be easily or economically recreated. Mitigating risks associated with ransomware and reversing its effects are major IT and business priority. Reversing the effects of data loss is the traditional role of backup and recovery mechanisms, but backup data itself must be uncorrupted. That is what is traditionally called a golden copy. In recent years, a new set of risks associated with backup copies in cells has emerged, generating a significant amount of concern among data protection IT. Traditional backup and recovery can be performed and stored locally or in CAV environments. Many topology variations exist. This serves a primary purpose of having an easy to reach copy of the data for recovery purposes. The easier the access to the files, the better. In contrast, what we will call a cyber-resilient copy of data must meet much more stringent requirements in order not to be affected or infected by ransomware. This is where air gapping and tape technology come into play. Air gapping keeps an isolated copy of critical data off the network, with no direct network connection and ideally, multiple recovery points, in order to guarantee that an uncompromised golden copy is always available for recovery. This means that segregating the infrastructure and the data is critical to optimizing instant response time and effectiveness. This is where tape comes is. Tape has a long history with IT professionals and remains today, a significant storage technology used by many organizations and source providers, including hyperscalers. It is truly experiencing a renaissance due to its capacity, automation capabilities, security features, and an extremely competitive cost profile. ESG has recently identified many benefits for users of the most common current tape technology known as LTO-8. LTO-8 Technology builds on the inherent reliability and low cost of tape media, enabling organizations to lower hardware costs in their storage infrastructure. And one of the great benefits of tape storage is its compelling and sophisticated use of automation greatly simplifies the deployment of the technology at large scales. This, in turn, offers a strong alternative to other approaches that can quickly become costly at scale, such as disk-based optical storage, for example. For the best cost profile and high scalability, tape rules. The inherent strength of tape in the fight against ransomware have clearly become more vital in contemporary IT, rather than less. As part of the complete strategy to combat cyberattack and ransomware, tape stands out as an ideal medium because of its capacity, performance, automation, durability, a large vendor ecosystem, and last, but not least, cost characteristics. This is where organizations of all sizes should take a close look at HPE's portfolio. HPE offers a variety of proven tape solutions, ranging in size from small to very large, in order to meet the requirements of modern IT and provide valuable options in a broader context of cybersecurity and ransomware remediation. The solutions are in use in thousands of customer environments. What about yours? 