  So here's how it should happen. You get home late. You're tired. You just want to relax, maybe order a new pair of shoes. You browse the Loaf website until you find a pair that speaks to your soul. You add it to your shopping cart so that you can pay with your credit card or bitcoin routing number. A few sleeps later, your shoes are at their new home. Or so we thought. Until we let everyone down. I started making custom shoes while I was studying abroad in Sweden. My first customer was my roommate, Axel Bjornsen. I just kept up with the designs when I got back home and eventually turned it into my full-time business, Loaf. And by that time, my old roommate had become Bjornsen, the Bjornsen, famous avant-garde commercial director. He offered to do our first ad for free. Well, the director is Bjornsen. No! I'm not doing nothing. Stop filming! No! Stop! That's my boy. He's-- For years, I was laser focused on my designs, production-- you know, growing my business. The last thing I was thinking about was IT. Do you know how hard it is to innovate in the athleisure, non-rubber, soft sole footwear space? Do you? Neev hired me in 2017 to write for his daily shoes-letter. I ended up taking over all of Loaf's operations. This means everything from manufacturing facilities, our distributors, and Loaf's international headquarters. Neev wanted something downtown, mid-century, and private. I don't need to hear all the backlash-- oh, we've done leather, or we've done-- Can you please keep it down! Hey, I got two out of the three. I was also tasked to run Loaf's IT. This was long before we had Hewlett Packard Enterprise. And then the storm happened. OK, let's get some shoes. We were just happy to have loyal customers. Ooh, I like these. We didn't think much about how we could keep up with the demand. We have a global clientele that is discerning, savvy, and expects to get the shoes they want three to five business days after they decide they want them. A few months ago, we had to restore our system after a power outage, and we lost a ton of orders. So I called Neev during one of his meditation hours. And I said, Neev, we need to get HPE. Then we got set up with Hewlett Packard Enterprise and got exactly what we needed-- a server and storage solution that provides quick and comprehensive backup and recovery for our global clientele, meaning that Ken in Luong Perbong can get his loafers, and Kathy in New York can get her sneakers. Yes! [SHATTERS] [THUNDER AND LIGHTNING] Soft skin kissed by the sun. Swishing evergreens dance by the sidewalk cafe. Loaf. Babylonian frescoes glint in the summer moon. Loaf. Beauty is around us and between us. Look through Earth's display window. Loaf. Tiptoe through the tall grasses. Engineer trends. Browse. Loaf. Loaf. 