 At HPE, we recognize the challenges  the modern organization is facing in keeping up with the rapid growth  of data and the need to extract maximum value from it, using a combination of HPC,  AI, and analytics techniques. As a result, research institutions and commercial enterprises alike are increasingly relying on the performance and scale provided by technical computing technologies and systems to power  their data centers for what we view as the dawn of the next era of computing. Organizations now, more than ever, rely on these systems to deliver the insights needed to power their innovation, increase operational efficiencies  and create new and unique experiences for their customers.  In response to this growing need, we have engineered our next generation family of HPE Apollo platforms to be the backbone of these mission-critical,  HPC and AI workloads. The Apollo family is purpose-built to provide a foundation of compute power, density and flexibility to help you stay ahead of your organization's  rapidly-evolving analytics needs. As your data and analytics needs grow,  the Apollo line, along with HPE software and services, will be ready to scale with you for any size deployment, ranging from smaller clusters to some of the world's largest supercomputers. Within this family of products,  the Apollo 2000 Gen10 plus delivers density-optimized scale-out compute that  can be tailored to the precise needs of your demanding high-performance computing, HPC applications in healthcare, financial services and manufacturing. Gen10 Plus offers enhanced system performance and optimization, comprehensive server security and management, with flexible scale out building blocks.  It also uses traditional rack sizes, memory, networking, and management to easily integrate with existing architecture, letting customers scale up as business needs change.  Under the hood, the Apollo 2000 Gen10 plus has the processing power  needed in today's evolving HPC and AI landscape. The HPE ProLiant XL225n Gen10 plus server is a half-width 1U platform, based on the 2nd generation AMD EPYC processors. This design allows for up to 4 individually  serviceable compute nodes per 2U, deployed with a shared power and cooling infrastructure. With support for up to 2 AMD EPYC 7002 Series processors per tray, Apollo 2000 systems support over 240W  processors, have improved memory speed, operating up to 3200 megatransfers  per second and PCIe Gen4 I/O bandwidth, with unmatched security.  The 7002 Series processors implement a System On Chip design,  which eliminates the need for many external support chips and reduces costs.  The result is more than twice the performance and up to four times the theoretical peak floating point operations per second when compared to 1st Gen. AMD EPYC processors. The Apollo 2000 Gen10 plus and 2600 chassis can be configured to support anywhere from 0 to 24 SAS/SATA drives,  providing storage flexibility for both HPC and enterprise applications in  a traditional rack environment. NVMe drives are also supported,  further enabling customization options and better performance to meet the requirements of different workloads. The Apollo 2000 Gen10 system also offers increased security to protect your business and data. Each system is secure from the start with HPE integrated Lights Out, iLO, and the Silicon Root of Trust. This feature ensures that only known and trusted firmware, is allowed to run.  The Silicon Root of Trust is tied to the AMD Secure Processor at the firmware level. Both of these features work together,  and if a security problem is found, HPE iLO can then roll the system back  to a last known safe state. For cluster deployments, HPE Apollo  2000 Gen10 plus systems come with HPE Performance Cluster Manager, a fully  integrated system management software, which turns even the most complex hardware  into easily manageable and reliable clusters, capable of accommodating an ever-growing  variety of user requirements. The software aggregates information from HPE iLO, so your systems are secure from the ground up. In addition to the system management software, HPE offers Apollo customers a variety of HPC software tools, designed to maximize use of available compute resources to solve complex problems, including runtime environments or software development tools, such as Cray Programming Environment.  To conclude, the Apollo 2000 Gen10 plus system builds on the solid innovation in  the previous generation and adds support for higher wattage processors, expanded power capability, greater I/O density and bandwidth. All of this comes with  a robust three-year parts and on-site labor warranty and a variety  of global service and support options that are available to keep your business up and running. We are at the dawn of a new era of HPC, AI, and analytics adoption that will be underpinned by high-performance computing technologies running in  every data center. HPE Apollo are built from the ground up to meet this era head-on and to deliver a supercomputer of any size  for every data center. For more information, contact your HPE representative or visit hpe.com/servers/apollo2000. 