 The idea is this is: it's two pronged right? What I'm looking at with LIQID is this. We talked a little bit about the public cloud right now where the promise has been the last 10 plus years for the public cloud. We all understand that the big players AWS, Azure, Google and beyond. Well folks have gone there they thought initially well it could also be better economics. But the reality was the ease of use (i.e. spin up resources spin them down as needed when needed) Right? And they kind of go back to it as the team grows or shrinks. Now that has not been...folks have not been able to do that on prem. So what we're talking about again this transition from static to dynamic is just has to be easy. Right? So now we're talking about on demand infrastructure just like we talked about the Netflix and the UBERs and that type of model and thinking, think about the same thing for infrastructure. That's what LIQID does. That's what's so groundbreaking if you will. It's it's kind of delivering the promise of public cloud but doing it on-prem and doing for enterprises across the spectrum. Right? You can be very large. You can can be a CSP, an MSP out there but also you can be you know smaller insurance house or lawyer for more or a doctor's kind of office or company. So you could be in that area. Now that's one way of looking at LIQID. It's disruptive in the sense of now I'm democratizing agile elastic infrastructure for all enterprises right? SME all the way to very large enterprises and and government entities. The other piece is I like to think of it as things that have been disruptive have been the introduction of of NAND. Right? This transition away from spinning media, right? To electronic storage which has been NAND for the last 18, 19 plus years. I've been at it for for 19 years. That's one. We talked about cloud that be another. And certainly when virtualization started we've had actually some folks very close to... Some visionaries in the I.T. industry that I've been talking about If what LIQID positions today is is accurate and we can deliver on that vision we can be to bare metal what VMware has been to virtualization in the last 15 years. So I'd say you know we talked about cloud. We talked about other introductions of different technologies such as NAND and then the conversion from spinning media to electronic storage. And then, last but not least the advent of virtualization and what that brought over the last 15-16 years. 