 Hi, this is Nancy Berliner from HPE Storage. In a previous video, I demonstrated InfoSight's revamped UI for HPE Primera and HPE 3PAR, which has a cleaner, simplified view of multiple systems. In this demo, I'll show the new single system view, plus some of the new features like performance insights. Here I am looking at one of the Primera storage arrays in our lab, s3039. The status bar has a summary of important information and always appears at the top of the screen. There is a total and available raw capacity, plus the overall compaction ratio on the system. The red badges on the status pane icons alert you about best practice, support, or health issues. I'll come back later in the demo and click on the hyperlinks to get more information. Finally, on the right is a summary of the array performance over the past 24 hours. InfoSight has telemetry data from the thousands of systems in our install base that includes each system's fingerprint. It's specific hardware, software, workload characteristics, and even host OS types. If one customer experiences an issue and we provide a software fix, we can then use machine learning to search for similar systems at risk of experiencing the same issue. Conversely, if a given software update isn't relevant to your system, you don't need to be notified of it. So the OS update recommendations you see here are tailored to this specific system. They come with a link to the release notes so you don't have to go searching and, unique for a mission-critical array, you can easily perform the update yourself in the Primera UI. And actually more than 50% of our customers are now choosing to do this on their own. HPE may source disks from multiple vendors. So if you need to know your specific disk models, you have this information at the bottom of the screen. And to the right are more configuration details. Among other things, you can click on the hyperlink to see all the systems in your organization, see details about your volume types and data compaction, verify your support contract, and also make sure that your system is actively sending data home to InfoSight. For any system with at least six months of capacity history, InfoSight is able to analyze past consumption and project that out into the future. I can hover over the "i" to get details of the algorithms that are used to generate the forecast. Then I can include only the metrics I'm interested in on the graph. For example, it's useful to deselect the raw capacity and just see usable numbers, the virtual capacity presented to the host, and the space actually consumed on the system. This is an all-flash array, but if it were a hybrid system, I could also see the breakdown by tier. A lot of the power of InfoSight is in the machine learning and AI that goes on behind the scenes and the system saturation is a great example. InfoSight uses its community learning to compare this system's I/O load with similarly configured systems running similar workloads. The saturation percentage represents the difference between the actual IOPS being serviced and the optimal IOPS we know this system can deliver. Further down the page are more workloads specifics. And if you see something interesting, you can zoom in to investigate. For example, if I focus in on this period of higher latency, you can see that the latency spikes correspond with an increase in the I/O size. Or, if you'd like to zoom out and look at a longer period of time, you could do that as well. In the Performance Insights tab, you can get even more granular and correlate system saturation with what's happening at a volume level. InfoSight continuously learns as it analyzes the system's performance data and it can detect volume outliers whose service time is higher than expected. Each rectangle represents an individual volume at a given point in time. The more saturated the color, the higher the relative latency. You can also view the top five volumes by absolute latency in a heat map at the very bottom. The link for the corresponding vCenter environment at the top of the screen brings you to the cross-stack analytics area for the system, where you can correlate its performance with the VMs and data stores on the VMware hosts. There are a number of videos already on cross-stack analytics, though, so I am not going to cover that any further here. Now let's go explore one of those systems status alerts. The most recent ones are alerting us to the fact that the replication links are down. If this were a customer system, I'd be able to coordinate the issue with the history of opened and closed cases. But since this system is designated as an internal HPE demo system, no support cases have been opened. I find the History tab very useful, especially for a frequently changing environment like our lab. I can track exactly how and when the system was upgraded, reflecting both the software and the hardware upgrades. The Status Details tab lets me know if I am likely to run out of storage within a year's time. I can check the life left on my SSDs, and make sure the storage is configured and consumed evenly between the controller node pairs. Status History is helpful as well, especially if I want to go back in time. For example, late last year, the host initiators were not balanced between the controller nodes on the system, and I might want to check and verify that it's been fixed. Lastly, here's a list of all the physical disks. You can sort by status to make any failed disks rise to the top, or you can use the Total and Free Capacity columns to make sure capacity is consumed evenly. Here, all drives show about 90% free. And if you have a large environment, you might want to download this information to CSV to do some further analysis offline. I hope you enjoyed this video. For more information, visit hpe.com/storage. 