 Enterprises today need speed. Instantly available flexible technology ready to use to enable the business in your data center or your edge. Your cash flow is mapped directly to your IT use. Centrally managed and metered. You are your Enterprise's Service Broker. Controlling costs, managing resources can be challenging. Public cloud raises concerns about cost control, data sovereignty and security. But what if you can have the best of both? The control of on-premises IT, and the agility of the public cloud... all in a pay as you use consumption model? Imagine an environment with: Predictable, reduced operating costs Protection from overprovisioning More productive developers ...With everything available and programmable in a few clicks? The solution is HPE Synergy with HPE GreenLake cloud services. You have the power to add or change workloads rapidly based on business needs. HPE Synergy is a single, intelligent platform - with networking, storage and compute - that you compose to fit your workloads and environment. Only HPE Synergy helps you consume just the resources you need, command capacity quickly and easily execute tasks using a software console. With Synergy, deploying resources is rapid and ongoing management is simple. HPE Synergy is the optimized IT platform for business workloads. Physical virtualized to hybrid cloud - benefit from HPE and VMware's over 20 year partnership. Streamline your operations with VMWare Cloud Foundation. Containerized and DevOps environments, traditional or cloud native applications. Run different business applications at different times of each day all on the same platform. HP Synergy optimizes your datac enter footprint for space and more efficient power and cooling. With HP Synergy, powered by Intel Xeon Scalable processors, your IT responds to business needs fast, creating business value faster. Networking is done once, then re-adapts to needs in just a few clicks. HP GreenLake services - the cloud that comes to you gives you on premises IT in a managed pay-as-you-use consumption model. Support, capacity management, and elastic IT are available. So you can meet changing needs fast, without overprovisioning, and with no capital outlay. And you only pay for what you use. Together, HPE Synergy with HPE GreenLake services give your IT the speed and scale of cloud with the control of on-premises IT. The evolution of IT is HPE Synergy with HPE GreenLake cloud services. Compose the IT you need, when you need it, and only pay for what you use. HPE and Intel have a 25-year partnership. HPE leverages, Intel® Optane™ DC persistent memory, only available on Intel Xeon processors. 