 - [Mark] Welcome to this short recap and analysis of HPE's Storage Spotlight. Part of its rolling Discover Virtual Experience. Now, it might be built as virtual, but there's been a lot of real meat to sink our teeth into. Of course, it's all a bit different from the normal Vegas experience as we peer at screens rather than stages. The overall HPE messaging is important for context. Under an Age of Insights banner, company leaders espouse strategic consistency, journeying to become the edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service company. And they did this with two key announcements. First, extensions to GreenLake, that's HPE's embrace in delivery of cloud experience everywhere. They enhanced its flexible consumption with expanded management and new pre-integrated configurations. Second, the announcement of HPE Ezmeral, its new software brand and portfolio focused on helping, that means containers, data fabric, orchestration, and so on, edge-to-cloud data, access, and management. All right. So, now, let's turn specifically to storage. I'll try to encapsulate and summarize the main news items in just a minute or less. Two things took the Intelligent Data Platform spotlight, meaningful AI extensions to Primera. Using HPE's InfoSight, Primera could already monitor, predict, and recommend optimizations for self-healing and cost optimization. But now, the system can automatically act on its insights, a level of intelligence that allows HPE to offer 100% availability guarantee and provide workload shaping in the future. Second, HPE Cloud Volumes Backup. This is cloud-native backup that can help protect HPE and non-HPE storage with restoration choice through on-premises HPE equipment or to AWS, Azure, or GCP. As such, it's a key piece of HPEs Cloud Everywhere jigsaw. So, after that whirlwind summary, I'd like to turn to my two guests, Sandeep Singh from HPE, Scott Sinclair from ESG. And we're going to try and get a little bit beneath the marketing veneer and talk about the market value. So, Sandeep, you first. For someone perhaps who didn't watch everything or would just like to really revisit things in a succinct fashion, what are the key takeaways from the storage side here? Not so much the product, if you like, but the point. - [Sandeep] We're helping customers unlock agility as well as unlock the value of data. Data remains the lifeblood of every organization, and with the unprecedented COVID-19 global pandemic, every organization has a need to increase the IT agility as well as preserve cash. Yet IT plays a pivotal role in not only accelerating recovery, but also accelerating transformation. One of our key announcements was focused around AI-driven intelligence, where we now go beyond predicting and recommending, but with the embedded AI intelligence in HPE Primera, it's able to act on its own, and that's unlocking greater levels of agility for our customers. Our second key area of the announcement was around modernizing data protection with the introduction of HPE Cloud Volumes Backup. That's designed to enable customers to extend protection to cloud as well as harness the agility of a hybrid cloud. - Let me push you just a little further on this, I mean, obviously, you're a marketing expert, and marketing differentiation is always appealing, but market differentiation is where the value is. So, you know, bluntly, what's yours? - I'll touch upon three key areas. First is AI-driven intelligence. Customers repeatedly are asking us to help them overcome complexity and IT disruptions. AI-driven intelligence is the real game-changer to predict and prevent disruptions before they occur. And secondly, to keep their infrastructure optimized. As other vendors are just beginning their journey on AI-driven intelligence, we pioneered this over a decade ago with HPE InfoSight. We estimate over the last decade, InfoSight has analyzed over 1,250 trillion data points and helped our customers save over 1.5 million hours of what would have otherwise been lost productivity. Second key area, unlock Cloud Everywhere. What we're seeing is organizations are shifting from a cloud-first to a cloud-everywhere mandate, where they really want to bring the agility of cloud to all of their applications, including their on-premises workloads. With HPE GreenLake, we're enabling that as-a-service cloud experience for those on-prem applications and we're extending that with enterprise cloud data services to unify and bridge the data experience on premises, as well as in the cloud. Third key area is modernizing data protection. Customers have the need to be able to protect their data, especially during these times where cybercriminals are quite active. Not only have rapid recovery with an as-a-service experience, but to be able to extend that to cloud as well. Data protection through HPE GreenLake offers cloud services for local data protection, and then we combine that with HPE Cloud Volumes Backups so customers can get that end-to-end as-a-service experience and be able to also activate their data in the cloud. - You used words...I know you said unifying, certainly, I think, like integrating, that sort of thing. So, I want to close, if you could briefly cover for me how you are unified and integrated from a storage perspective, as part of the broader HPE Storage, whether that's Ezmeral, Edge, GreenLake, whatever. - HPE is an edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service company, and that's designed to help our customers accelerate what's next. There are three key areas here. First is as-a-service delivery that we're enabling with HPE GreenLake. Second key area is about unlocking the value of data, and the announcements that you saw from HPE Storage as well as HPE Data Fabric, they're designed to help customers unlock the value of data. And then the third key area is helping customers bring that edge-to-cloud experience for their cloud-native apps. And with HPE Ezmeral Container Platform, we're enabling that for both the non-cloud-native and the cloud-native applications. So, as an edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service company, we can help customers accelerate their recovery as well as accelerate their transformation. - Now, let me turn to you, Scott. Scott, you've been to a lot of announcements. You know, you've been to a lot of events. This is probably the first all-digital one, but what really stood out to you? - [Scott] Well, so first off, I really like what HPE is doing around intelligent storage. With COVID-19, we live in this world where knowledge workers have been able to exit the office, work from home, while IT administrators have been forced to be declared essential and often have to go back in the office. And typically that's because they don't have an intelligent, smart, autonomous infrastructure. With Primera, not only do they have app-level visibility, but they're also empowering it not just with the ability to predict and recommend, but also act. And I think that's incredibly powerful as we look to really deliver this autonomous storage that IT needs. I also really like what HPE is doing around cloud volume for backup. Cloud Volumes is an incredibly simple way to help leverage cloud storage infrastructure, and data protection is a huge challenge. And by simplifying it and allowing it to support not only HPE storage but also other vendors, I mean, this is an incredibly simple way to help leverage cloud for backup. - You know, talking about marketing differentiation as compared to market difference. What do you see as really different for the market relative to what you just said? - You know, in terms of marketing, we see a lot of messages around intelligence in storage, where we put artificial intelligence inside the box, but really the secret, or, I guess, not so secret ingredient for HPE here is InfoSight. I mean, there are hours and hours of runtime with that technology understanding different customer environments in almost every application environment. So, if you're building...if you truly want to build an intelligent infrastructure, it's not just about embedding more code into technology, that's a key part, but you have to have that runtime experience to know when the right time is to act. And to me, that that's really what bridges the gap between the ability to just recommend or say, "Hey, look, we think this is going to happen," to actually know, "Hey, look, we have the experience, now we can actually apply actions that really deliver those positive gains to IT efficiency." In a similar fashion around experience, when we think about what HPE is doing around cloud volumes for backup, HPE's Cloud Volumes has been around for one. I mean, it's been a very simple, effective storage infrastructure in the cloud, and by building on that simplicity and that experience and delivering it, it's not just, "Hey, this is a new capability." This is a capability that is built on a wealth of experience that's provided value for a long time. - Okay. No, that all makes sense. So, what you're saying is, yes, we have the virtual announcement, but actually a lot of the announcement built on stuff that's already real. So, that's good. I want to...one last question for you, Scott, something perhaps I wouldn't ask Sandeep, but what's missing, or put another way, what are the challenges and opportunities for HPE with what they're doing here? - IT needs to be able to leverage the right technology that fits into its long-term data strategy. How does it maximize its applications? How does it maximize its data to really maximize the potential of the business? If you think about what HPE is doing with intelligent storage around Primera or what they're doing around cloud volumes for backup, this is really about providing a really flexible, intelligent foundation that now when combined with GreenLake, you can start delivering as-a-service and delivering that cloud-like experience that IT needs. And looking forward, that's the blend where we have to go. We have to get to a world where IT has that cloud-like consumption experience, that cloud-like management experience, but has true flexibility and the infrastructure that they leverage, and has the added intelligence embedded in that infrastructure to really free up all the personnel time so they can focus on their business' transformation goals. - Makes perfect sense. And so, Scott, thank you very much for those thoughts. Sandeep, also thank you for your insights. Thank you both. Rather than closing with another summary, I'd like to use a couple of pieces of ESG research that show how HPE's storage approach matches current user needs. Two of the top four most commonly identified data center modernization activities are increasing the use of IT infrastructure automation and orchestration, and leveraging AI/ML to help with systems management. And when researching the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we found that for organizations increasing their 2020 IT budget, 54% are looking to implement long-term strategies to provide more flexible and resilient IT infrastructure. None of these contemporary requirements can be implemented adequately on old rigid infrastructure. Clearly, HPE storage understands and is addressing exactly this. Thanks very much for watching. 