 (upbeat music) Hey guys, my name is Matt Morrissey. I am the HPE Worldwide Product Marketing Manager for Primera. And today, I've taken over my daughter's playroom to do a quick video on Primera. Today, I'm gonna be talking about why I consider Primera a storage unicorn. You may be wondering what I mean by that. It's because it is completely unique, one-of-a-kind, you're not gonna find another one like it across the industry. And it's the reason why we're able to redefine what's possible with mission-critical storage. Now for some context, when I talk to organizations about their goals, their objectives, I often hear about how they are looking to accelerate everything that they do. Their apps, their data, ultimately they're looking to drive more innovation to get ahead. Now the challenge is that it's really, really hard for IT to keep up with the business side of the house. Because often times IT can be overwhelmed. When you think about traditional storage for mission- critical environments today, it's really known for two things. The first is around reliability, which is a good thing. And often times vendors will promote five nines, even six nines of availability. But ultimately this comes at a cost. There's tons and tons of complexity associated with traditional high-end storage. And what happens is that IT can often pull the business back because they're spending so much time administering, tuning, and supporting their existing infrastructure. Now the reason why Primera is so unique is that it strips away all of that complexity, while raising the game on reliability. And collectively we're enabling three new business outcomes. Now the first reason why I consider Primera a storage unicorn is because it enables a simple, on-demand user experience for instant access to your data. Now when you think about the world that we live in today, no one wants to wait for anything and that's the reason why we designed Primera to be super, super simple. Take for example the entertainment that we seek out. Who wants to go to a record store? Who wants to listen to the radio that much anymore because of the commercials and all of the repetitive music? Why should we deal with that stuff when you can stream the music you want to hear instantly and on-demand with a few clicks? That's the level of simplicity we're bringing to storage with Primera. It's all about a self-service model designed for a few clicks. So, for example, we've made it so easy that you can install Primera yourself, in as little as 20 minutes and overall you can deploy it, you can manage it, and you can scale it all on your own without impacting your applications. And you can do it much more efficiently with up to 95% time savings. Now the second reason why I consider HPE Primera a storage unicorn is because of app-aware resiliency. So with other vendors they'll talk about five nines, even six nines of availability. That's all well and good, but ultimately it leaves the door open for some downtime. But what's worse is that there's this constant need to fight fires because issues or problems that happen outside the storage stack, which is where we know the majority of them actually happen, are really hard to identify, pinpoint, and resolve. And with any impact on your apps or your data doing irreparable damage to your brands, we know that you've got no time for downtime. And that's why every Primera comes standard with a 100% availability guarantee as a standard benefit for our customers. Now we call it app-aware resiliency because we also have intelligence that sees beyond the walls of storage. With HPE InfoSight, we've already analyzed over a trillion data points spanning storage, servers, and virtual machines. And through cloud-based machine learning, we've been able to predict and prevent thousands of disruptions, which has saved our customers over 1.5 million man hours. Now when you think about it, that's a heck of a lot of time our customers get, extra time they get to propel their business forward, versus looking over their shoulder fighting fires. And then the last reason why I consider Primera a storage unicorn is because of timeless ownership. So this is about keeping your storage fresh, never letting it get old, never letting it go stale. We get it. We know that tech refreshes can be a pain in the neck. We know that data migrations can take months to implement. It's the reason why we architected HPE Primera to eliminate the forklift upgrade refresh process through a nondisruptive process. Now with Primera what you get is storage that's so easy you can install it in as little as 20 minutes and you do that once and now you're set for the next decade because you've got a seamless path to innovation without ever disrupting your applications. And because there's no rip-and-replaces, because there's no data migrations, we're able to deploy twice the amount of innovation with up to 40% less cost. So, that wraps it up. Hopefully this gives you a bit of a taste as to why I consider Primera a storage unicorn. Why we are redefining mission-critical storage with a platform that is self-installable, self-upgradable, all in minutes, all backed by a 100% availability guarantee. If you want to get any more information, I recommend that you check out HPE.com/storage/primera. Thank you. (upbeat music) 