 As one of the most recognized household names in Malaysia the Sunway Group covers a multitude of markets, from property and construction, to retail, education and many more. For an industry disruptor like Sunway, technology sits at the heart of their transformation plans to add value through new efficiencies and create world-class support for its business functions. To be able to succeed in the digital age we live in and especially for a large, multi-faceted organisation like Sunway it was important to transform our IT services and provide the same level of optimised support across all our subsidiaries. One of our significant digital transformations was the Sunway Private Cloud initiative. We wanted to provide a cloud-based platform for all Sunway Group business units. Furthermore, we wanted to provide a more affordable solution to the businesses as leveraging on existing public cloud platforms can be expensive. So how did Hewlett Packard Enterprise help Sunway get the reliability and consistent performance they needed without the latency and complexity that was holding them back? HPE ticked those boxes for us with their SimpliVity HCI systems which essentially simplified our management complexity and optimized a process that was time-consuming and resource-heavy. A prime example of the improvement when we adopt the HPE solution is the time consumed in operations. Before HPE, the time taken for our operational staff to provision a new virtual machine would take up to 1 hour before moving on to hardening. However, with HPE, we are capable enough to provision a new virtual machine within 30 minutes. This in return provides a reduction in resources used as well as increasing productivity since our personnel are able to deliver more and focus on other areas of development. With HPE SimpliVity, we are now able to condense the time engaged to perform a full backup in our environment. In the past, it would require up to 48 hours for the team to perform a full backup. Now, we are able to not only reduce the time taken which is approximately 24 hours the team can at the same time perform incremental backup. SimpliVity is using synthetic full backup which will shorten the I/O required to access the server as it merges all incremental backup instead of performing one full backup. It also provides faster tape-out with the current transfer rate at average of 300Mbps. SimpliVity’s proprietary dedupe and compression technologies allow us to keep the space consumption to a minimum. We currently have 200 servers running virtually and we still have room to grow. That played a huge part in achieving the operational excellence we wanted. From business operations-focused to business outcomes-focused Hewlett Packard Enterprise managed to help Sunway achieve a whole new set of advantages with their partnership. We are also a bit unique as Hitachi Sunway, as a group, is both a customer and an SI partner to HPE. Because we are already experiencing what HPE can provide from a solution and support perspective we become more confident to position HPE solutions and services to our own customers. It’s a win-win partnership. 