 Hi, everyone. My name's Evans Nicholson, and I am a Technical Marketing Engineer here at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Today, I am going to talk to you about another great innovation we have added to HPE InfoSight. Several innovations, actually. I will be going over the enhancements we have made to our VMware and storage recommendation engines for Nimble Storage. So generically, I will refer to this as a VM recommendations demo, but there is more to it than that, and I will explain as we go through the video. One thing I am going to talk about before we get into the demo itself is the benefit of having these recommendation engines in the first place. Our recommendation engine provides proactive advice and action items to address performance or misconfiguration problems. Other tools on the market can show you collections of graphs and tables with a lot of the same information you can see in InfoSight, honestly. I am talking about things like latency, host utilization, VM resource contention, etc, raw metrics. But with those other solutions, the user still needs to determine which graph to look at to figure out how to interpret what the graphs are saying. And most importantly, they still need to know what to do to actually fix the problem. In contrast, HPE InfoSight's recommendation engine is like having your own personal performance analyst looking over your infrastructure 24/7 and telling you in plain English what is going on and what specific actions to take to resolve issues. InfoSight also uses global visibility, where our complex AI recommendation models learn from peers by analyzing telemetry information and common configurations to help identify trends or signatures. So what's new, Evans? What we are going to talk about today? Why are we here? What is the meaning of life? Sorry, can't help you with that one, but maybe I can help you with the other things. So today I am going to cover three main areas. First, I am going to go over the new recommendations dashboard. Then I will show you how VM recommendations are now integrated into existing VMware-native pages on the InfoSight web portal. If you are already familiar with cross-stack analytics for VMware, I promise you are going to love this. And then finally, I will go over the enhancements we have made to the operational dashboard for Nimble Storage. But before we get started, let me just say that I am doing this on a dev portal, well in advance of the production release but we don't expect any major changes at this point, so what you see is more than likely what you are going to get. So first, let's go over the new recommendations dashboard. Here we get a consolidated view of two different recommendation engines, both VMware and storage. I can filter by object using the dropdown menu here. So let's say we are hearing from a group of engineers that they are seeing poor performance on a newly deployed application. We know that the application is hosted on certain VMs, whose names start with "ns". Let's select Recommended Actions for VMs only and see what we can find. Here I can see three VMs with the right naming convention, all of which are suffering from virtual CPU underprovisioning. Let's click on this first VM to drill down further. So now we moved over to cross-stack analytics and are on what we call the VM native page. What's new here is the Recommended Action section on the right-hand side of the screen. Under the Diagnosis section, we can see that this VM is using most of the CPU resources allocated to it. The recommendation is telling me that I need to increase the number of Virtual CPUs assigned to this VM to help with the underlying performance issues. This is a result of our AI engine at work. There are several triage models that have been trained on peer data. They looked at all symptoms going in the system at the time and deduce that the fact the VMs were utilizing nearly all the vCPU resources, that was the main contributor to the problem. And it goes further. It actually tells you what to do about it in the form of a recommendation. Here, it tells you in plain English that you need to assign additional virtual CPUs to this underprovisioned VM. This, too, is a result of our AI remediation engine that is trained on our installed base. Another helpful section on this page is the Peer VMs list at the bottom. Peer VMs are those sharing the same compute or I/O resource and in this case, that would be the same ESXi host. In this case, the Peer VMs list is showing us other VMs which are also having performance issues due to CPU contention. We can see the current VM, plus the other two VMs, which are associated with the application in our scenario. Based on what we have seen on InfoSight, VM CPU underprovisioning is a likely cause of the issues with the application. The Recommendation Engine results and explanations have led us to this conclusion. One of the great things about troubleshooting with HPE InfoSight is the way the raw metrics are visualized and the way peer and dependent objects are associated and displayed. Let's look at another example of a different VM, which actually has two different anomaly detections triggered. In this case, you can see that we have elevated latency as well as virtual CPU overprovisioning. These diagnoses are ranked, meaning elevated latency is more of an issue than overprovisioning for this VM. So let's come back to latency and first take a look at CPU overprovisioning. This is the opposite case of what we saw with the other VMs in that this one actually has too many virtual CPU cores. This is causing scheduling issues on the ESXi host, and the recommendation is to reduce the number of CPUs on this VM. Now let's go back to the elevated latency diagnosis and look at the recommendations. Another very important enhancement is that now the VM and storage recommendation engines are integrated and are aware of each other. What this means is they can cross-reference each other's recommendations and come to an agreement on causal relationships. So if a VM is experiencing latency, which is ultimately due to a storage issue, the VM recommendations can now reference the storage issue and its recommendation for resolution. It's hard to overstate how important the interdependency of these engines is and how beneficial this will be for HPE customers. This is true cross-stack recommendations, and it's a major advantage of HPE InfoSight. Let's follow this link to the storage recommendations page and see what it's telling us. We are now on the Nimble Storage Pools Page, which has its own Recommendations section showing the results of the Storage Recommendation Engine. The diagnosis is SSD bandwidth saturation, and it comes with its own ranked list of recommendations on what to do to address this issue. Another innovative design feature of HPE InfoSight is the conscious decision to include deep links or tools related to objects only when it makes sense to do so, and only when it fits into the current workflow. Other products may appear to be as flexible and comprehensive by exposing endless submenus and view options. But we feel showing fewer, more targeted connections, which are tailored for each situation, is a better choice. Now let's talk about the host-native pages on HPE InfoSight and see what's new there. Again, we have the Recommended Action section on the right-hand side of the screen with any pertinent performance issues and recommendations on how to address those. Here's an example of a host diagnosis where the issue is virtual CPU underprovisioning. This is similar to what we saw on the VMs, but this is just from the host perspective. The Recommendation section gives some great in-depth advice on how to provision VMs with regards to virtual CPU. This is extremely helpful for modern infrastructure engineers who oversee more than one technology. This is like having your own VMware SME on call, giving you advice along the way. Underneath Diagnosis and Recommendations is a list of dependent VMs and peer hosts. Both of these sections are contextual, and we will show you different objects based on what the diagnosis is and based on what other objects are related and relevant. Let's look at the Peer Hosts section at the bottom. In this case, what we see are the other ESXi hosts in the cluster sorted by which ones are best suited to have more virtual CPUs provisioned on them. So for all dependent VMs, this is a ranked list of the best hosts to run the newly upgraded VM. Now let's cover the third native page and cross-stack analytics where we can see these new VM recommendations, and that would be the Data Stores view. We see that we have some elevated VM latency for this particular data store. Expanding the Recommendation section, we see links to two different contention views, which helped diagnose VMs affected by latency. This is another example of exposing deep links to additional tools or objects only when it makes sense to do so. HPE InfoSight provides an automated workflow designed to expose only the pertinent information. I will just choose the top one, which takes me to I/O Contention Trend. In this view, we see the top 10 VMs by IOPS and below that, the top 10 VMs affected by latency. This appears to be the classic case of the noisy neighbor, where one VM is either very busy or consuming a lot of resources which affects other VMs residing on the same resource. The top VM wearing the dark blue track suit is very busy, while the other VMs on the lower chart in red are experiencing high latency. Now I want to circle back and show you a few things I forgot to mention about the Recommendations Dashboard. On the Dashboard in the default view, all recommendations are shown and sorted first by object, then by severity. Currently, the object order is pools first, then hosts, then data stores and finally, VMs. As I scroll through the Issue Type dropdown list, we get a view into all of the results from the various anomaly detection models. These are the performance or misconfiguration conditions our engine is looking for and can help resolve. This dropdown is contextual and depends on what's been selected in the object dropdown. And right now I am looking at everything, both VMware and storage. We can get help and advice on how to address things like copy offload contention, low compressability, network bandwidth issues or unaligned I/O, for example. These types of issues can be very difficult to troubleshoot, but with this feature, we get comprehensive recommendations, so it's a huge benefit to have this resource. From this page. You also have the ability to snooze recommendations for any object. This is helpful if you already know of an issue with a certain host or VM, for example, or if you know an array is under maintenance. You can always check back in this News column to look for those items you snoozed and may have forgotten about. And finally, let's go over what's new on the Main Operational Dashboard for Nimble Storage. The Recommended Action section on the right-hand side of the page now shows both storage and VM recommendations. Just like on the Recommendation Dashboard, this list is sorted first by object and then by severity. So we are seeing all the storage recommendations first, listed by severity, then all the host issues by severity, then data stores, etcetera. In the description section for this video there is a link to another video on AI performance recommendations. That demo goes more in depth about the operational dashboard and the recommendations found there now, but as it relates to what we are talking about today, the bottom line is the Operational Dashboard for Nimble now has storage and VM recommendations listed, and they are aware of each other. So let's take a minute to summarize what's new and why it matters. HPE InfoSight can now provide a holistic view of all related objects for both VMware and storage, courtesy of coordinated recommendation engines. The purposeful design of both the workflows and what information is displayed on the portal with regards to these recommendations help guide the user from problem to resolution faster. Let me put this another way. I love cars and especially traveling, so I will leave you with this metaphor. Other vendors offer products that can provide detailed, high-resolution maps for your upcoming vacation, whereas InfoSight offers fully-automated, customized route calculation, based on what other travelers have experienced. Travelers driving the same car, driving a similar route. The difference is peer learning and mature intelligent design. With InfoSight, we are taking the principles of AIOps and Big Data Analytics and applying them to modern IT infrastructure products, and we have been at it for 10 years. Don't forget to check out the other videos I have linked below to learn more about HPE InfoSight. Thanks again and we will see you soon. 