 (bright ambient music) - [Woman Voiceover] HPE BladeSystem has been helping businesses achieve better outcomes since 2006. In 2016, HPE introduced the concept of Composable Infrastructure in the next-generation bladed architecture, HPE Synergy. HPE Synergy allows you to automate operations, instantly deploy and redeploy infrastructure, develop apps and services faster, and run any workload on a single infrastructure. In fact, those who've switched to HPE Synergy are enjoying 60% more IT efficiency, 71% faster deployment, and 30% lower total cost of ownership versus traditional bladed infrastructure. This flexibility makes HPE Synergy the ideal platform for supporting bare-metal, containerized, and virtualized workloads such as VDI, GPU-intensive applications, and any traditional or next-gen apps within a Hybrid Cloud environment. For example, customers can deploy VDI to support remote workers during the day. And, with the push of a button, they can switch to running batch data analytics applications overnight. To help you transition to Synergy, HPE has developed a portfolio of tools, offers, and services that will help make the transition as smooth and efficient as possible. The HPE Synergy TCO Calculator and HPE Synergy Transition Tool will give you overview of how Synergy will affect IT. The calculator will help you compare transition scenarios. And the transition tool will show you the Synergy architecture you'll need. HPE OneView provides a powerful and efficient platform for infrastructure management, and its open API integrates seamlessly with partner management tools, so you can keep using the tools you need for your integrated solutions. To make sure all your workloads will be supported, check out the tested and certified reference architectures and configurations in the HPE Information Library. Next, you can access tools and support to make your transition as painless as possible. The HPE Synergy Transition Tool also provides templates that make it easier to deploy across multiple sites, helping you with server migration and setup. And if the transition tool doesn't answer all your questions, HPE Pointnext Advisory and Professional Services can. HPE Financial Services can help you transition sooner and stay within your budget. Asset Upcycling and Accelerated Migration can turn older IT into useable funds. And with Flex Down for Synergy, you can avoid wasting money on overprovisioning. Finally, if you're considering public cloud for its economy and simplicity, check out HPE GreenLake, an HPE Pointnext service that gives you a cloud-like experience with on-premises control. There's no need to wait any longer. HPE is here to make your transition to Synergy smooth and easy. Contact your HPE or authorized channel partner rep to find out more today. Hpe.com/info/synergy. 