 RIU Hotels & Resorts was born in 1953 with a small hotel in Mallorca. 65 years later, it has more than 100 hotels all over the world in destinations such as Spain, Bahamas, Costa Rica, Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Mexico, United States, Ireland, Portugal, Morocco, Tanzania or Dubai. Thousands of travelers choose RIU Hotels year after year to live an unforgettable vacation thanks to a careful service that ensures that nothing goes wrong during their stay. RIU Hotels has specialized since its inception in the best beach destinations, but has also opted for the concept of "adults only" in various hotels for couples to enjoy their holidays with maximum comfort and relaxation, as well as urban hotels located in strategic points of capitals such as Berlin, Dublin, Miami, Panama or New York. Two years ago we purchased an HPE 3PAR all-flash cabin with the aim of renovating traditional storage systems and to provide services to our data warehouse. After checking the improvements in performance and user experience it provided, we moved our hotel management and financial management systems to the HPE 3PAR cabin and decided to convert our two data centers located in the city of Palma into an active-active configuration with a second HPE 3PAR cabin. The two HPE 3PAR cabins offer synchronous replication to transfer all functions from one data center to another in real time without affecting the services that depend on these infrastructures. In addition, thanks to its management tools we can move virtual machines between physical servers. The management console of the HPE 3PAR storage cabins allows us to perform the most common tasks in a matter of seconds. The use of software-defined templates provides a visual environment that fully automates storage provisioning through predefined server profiles. The installation and migration of the cabins was done successfully and quickly, with a total commitment between HPE and the IT department of RIU Hotels. The HPE 3PAR all-flash cabins provide enough performance to cover the current needs of RIU Hotels, and they also ensure the business continuity in critical situations, which allows us to look to the future thanks to the capacity of gradual and transparent absorption of new workloads. The decision to move our hotel management and financial management systems to the HPE 3PAR storage cabins, converting at the same time our two data centers into an active-active configuration, has been very successful. We have improved the user experience as well as performance in database environments without increasing licensing costs. The availability of our data centers is guaranteed and we have managed to reduce the electrical power consumption as well as the cooling needs. 