 Attach your ESD wrist strap to the grounded anti-static surface on which the two unpacked controller nodes and adapter cards rest. Add all adapter cards, making sure that the two additional nodes contain identical cards in the same slots. For each adapter card, carefully align and slide the adapter card into its node slot, pressing firmly to fully seat it. Note, you may need to press very firmly to fully seat some adapter cards. Tighten the captive thumb screw to secure the adapter card. Be sure all slots are filled with either an adapter card or a blank. Caution, the following tasks need to be done in order and quickly to avoid overheating your storage system. Attach your ESD wrist strap to an unpainted surface of the enclosure or rack. From the front of the Storage System, add a minimum of eight drives to the node enclosure in front of where the new node pairs will be installed. The number of new drives added should continue the balanced distribution of drives throughout all enclosures. From the rear of the system, remove any node blanks. Partially insert both nodes. But leave their release handles in the extended open position. Each node will be fully seated one at a time when the time comes. Note, the node designation for the new controller node will continue consecutively from the original nodes, N0 at the bottom, then N1, followed by N2 and N3 for the new nodes. Remove any PCBM blanks. Install both PCBMs, but do not install power cords yet. Label and connect ethernet connections between the management, MGMT ports on both nodes to the network switch. Label and connect Fiber Channel cables from your hosts to the identical ports in to the SFP ports in each adapter card in each node. Label and connect any additional host cabling for your configuration. Connect the power cords to both of the newly installed PCBMs for the new controller nodes. Slide node two into its bay until its release levers begin to engage. Close the release levers simultaneously to fully seat the node into the enclosure backplane. Fully tighten both thumbscrews to secure the controller node to the enclosure. Return to the Primera UI to monitor the progress. As soon as the node is inserted, it starts automatically and Node Rescue is run. The process takes approximately 10 to 20 minutes. Confirm that the green status LEDs on the controller node flash in synchronization with the other controller nodes, indicating that it has joined the cluster. The progress of the Node Rescue can be monitored through the Activities page. Selecting Tasks, and then node 2 Rescue task. Throughout this process, the system task progress bar shows the percentage complete. When done, the progress bar notifies you that node 2 has been found and clustered. This is your cue to add the remaining controller node. Slide node 3 into its bay until its release levers begin to engage. Close the release levers simultaneously to fully seat the node into the enclosure backplate. Fully tighten both thumbscrews to secure the controller node to the enclosure. Return to the Primera UI to monitor the progress. As soon as the additional node is inserted, it starts automatically and Node Rescue is run, followed by the Admit Hardware task. This can take significant time. Be patient. Once all of the hardware has been integrated into the storage system, maintenance mode ends and Check Health is run to confirm that the enlarged cluster with the newly installed node-pair is healthy. Confirm that the green status LEDs on the controller node flash in synchronization with the other controller nodes, indicating that it has joined the cluster. 