 I'm Bill Dunmire, Group Manager for HPE Mission Critical Solutions and I'm joined by Bob Ward, Microsoft Azure Data SQL Server Principal Architect. That's a mouthful Bill.  It is! Good to see you again Bob. So, there's a lot of excitement building around SQL Server 2019, which now I believe is in early  access. SQL 19 is in preview right now. We've had preview actually since last October, and it's gonna be generally available in the second half of calendar year 19. Perfect! There's three areas I want to talk about, beginning with data virtualization.  Now, if I recall in SQL Server 2016 you introduced data virtualization, and I think you utilized your PolyBase technology. That was PolyBase, right.  Talk about in SQL Server 2019, how you're building on that? Sure. As a customer, you don't want to move your data often, right?  You want to try to avoid and reduce ETL jobs. With SQL 16, we introduced this concept called PolyBase, mainly to go after Hadoop systems, cause we felt a lot of customers were trying to integrate big data with a relational like SQL Server. So, we took that concept—I call it PollyBase++, that's my own term—and what we've done is we've added all sorts of different other data sources. Imagine you as customer have Oracle in your environment and you can't move the  Oracle data to SQL Server, or maybe you're under some sort  of incremental migrations approach. So it's really simple. You set up a concept called an external table in SQL Server 19. It just looks like a table to most SQL people. When you query that table will redirect a query to Oracle, even things like pushdown ? to get actual great performance, and then bring the results back to SQL Server. And then you could even join it with your local SQL data, or imagine this, other data sources like MongoDB, or Teradata or even Hadoop as well. So, it provides a natural, what we call a data hub, using the leverage or T-SQL skills without actually moving a lot of data. It's pretty cool. So, with data virtualization you're essentially avoiding that ETL process. Absolutely! Bill, you know customers tell us ETL is expensive, it's hard to maintain, and in some particular cases, it actually causes problems from a security perspective for them. So why not just use the security boundaries of SQL? Think of this. You take your SQL tables and you put security principles of SQL on top of them, and then, we're actually accessing the Oracle data or Teradata through that data virtualization path through PolyBase. Okay, so in SQL Server 2019, you're  building on data virtualization. So, in SQL Server 2017, two significant enhancements: Support for Linux and also introducing support for containers. So, in SQL Server 2019, what are big data clusters? What's that all about? Oh! You've heard of big data clusters Bill, thank you! So in SQL 19, if you think what I talked about, data virtualization, there is some configuration involved to set that up, to get access to your Hadoop system, to get access to your Oracle system,  and so forth. What if we did that for you? What if we deployed all of those things for you in a Kubernetes cluster with containers? So because of the fact  that we support Linux, because of the fact that we support containers, we can take a bunch of containers, deploy that for you  in a Kubernetes cluster and provide that data virtualization concept in the  cluster itself. But here's what's really crazy. What if you don't have your own Hadoop system that you'd like to get asked the big data? We'll install one for you. An we understand that even, you know, you can't use T-SQL in every case in these virtualization scenarios. So why not just put Apache Spark in the system as well? Would you ever think SQL would install  Hadoop and Apache Spark together? Kind of crazy.  So I can use SQL Server now to be able to access and query data that's in Hadoop environment? I can also Spark? You can use Spark. What if I already have Hadoop in my environment? We've got that figured out, Bill. We understand you as a customer who already have a Hadoop cluster, but would love to use our big data cluster solution. So, we have a concept called HDFS Tiering where either you can use the HDFS we've installed for you through Spark or through SQL, or if you've got your own HDFS, we'll redirect it to your tiered HDFS system and then, think of this, you could even join our Hadoop system with your system with SQL. Think of it as an entire complete environment managed to cure by the power of Kubernetes and SQL together. Your Hadoop, our Hadoop. Doesn't really matter. Perfect. Okay, so you you've built on data virtualization you're now at big data clusters. In SQL Sever 2017, you also introduced machine learning tools. So what does this now mean for AI and machine learning? You know, actually in SQL 16 we introduced the concept of R as a programming language with machine learning services, tightly integrated with the SQL Server, where you would run your training models and access the data on the same computer as SQL. Along comes SQL 17. Let's do Python. Why not, right? So in SQL 19 we've added Java support and even better than that, we have something called the Extensibility Framework. So, you as a customer may have a different language, maybe Go or something like that. You can integrate that in with the SQL Framework, run machine learning models with SQL Server together and then with big data clusters that could be actually into the cluster now. So the machine learning models could be in the cluster with Spark ML, with SQL ML, we call it, running R, running Python, your favorite language. And so, then our customers have talked to us and said, That's a really cool solution, but I would like to actually install my model in this cluster environment and then access it through, like a REST endpoint or something. So the big data cluster solution has something called App Deploy. You actually go build your train model. You could do it inside the cluster if you want, but you could actually then save the model if you'd like, and now that model is accessing all of the data in the cluster now. The Hadoop data, the Oracle data, the SQL data. So it's kind of an end-to-end solution, if you think about it. This is kind of a big release for us, Bill, SQL 19. It's a very big release. And our engineering teams, they've already begun working together. We've already completed additional testing. We're building out reference architectures and we're ready for you. You know, HPE and us, Microsoft, have a great relationship as well at the engineering level with SQL Server. So I'm excited to see how we're going to build this together as we march towards availability for SQL 19. So, terrific Bob. Where can people learn more about Microsoft SQL Server 2019? Bill, I'm glad you asked.  We have a site called SQL Workshops for SQL 19. You can learn everything I just talked about, big data clusters, SQL 19 new features, machine learning on our SQL Workshps Website and It's free training for you as a customer. Outstanding Bob, thank you! 