 Keeping up with technology is hard. There's too much information to keep track of - it's time for a simple and straightforward approach. It's time for IT insights. [Michelle] I'm being joined by JB and I wanted to talk to you a little bit about what the HPE solution is for Azure stack. [James] So this focus on Azure stack it's based on the HPEProLiant DL380 server and what we typically do is install factory install up to anywhere from four to sixteen servers in one cabinet and we call that an appliance so and essentially we ship that to the customer and install it into your data center to form a private cloud. So on top of that software is the Azure Stack software so that's from Microsoft in where the leading OEM in North America. So again we do factory integration we do have to do on the customer we do install it there and then we have the support contract for up to three years. [Michelle] Okay so it's an integrated system. I know I talked with a lot of customers and they're wanting to just download run Azure Stack on whatever server they may have in them in in their closets. Yeah you're not able to do that? [James] Yeah yeah so there is a developer kit for Azure Stack where the customer could download that and install it for just testing purposes it wouldn't have any redundancy and it wouldn't be useful for production purposes so for a production solution it would be a minimum of four servers and then that's that rack and include up to 16 servers. [Michelle] Okay so a turnkey integrated solution? [James] Yeah, turnkey. We install the whole thing. You know it's a little tricky to install right now and therefore Microsoft and HPE you want to make sure that we have a successful deployment so that's why we do the factory installation and the on-site deployment to make sure it works. [Michelle] So we recently launched the Gen 10 solution so HPE ProLiant for Microsoft Azure Stack Gen 10 it's a mouthful. Can you talk a little bit about what makes the Gen 10 solution unique and different from Gen 9? [James] Yeah sure so the Gen 10 is our net latest generation of the HPE ProLiant line even though that shipped last year we just now certified it with Microsoft so that it's now available for Azure Stack. Roughly, we double the memory footprint we double the amount of storage and CPU so the big takeaway here is that it's roughly a little bit more than double the size per server that we had in our Gen 9 solution so we can basically fit more workloads in one cabinet now. [Michelle] And what about security? [James] So yeah so a couple new features in our gen 10 that is now available for Azure stack one is most popular is that we call Silicon Root of Trust. So essentially what we're doing now is during boot up and that as we run the operations the server can constantly monitor to make sure it has not had a attempt to hack the server either remotely or inside the data center.They can literally go in there [the data center] and people can hack it. So it actually considerably continuously monitors that ensures it hasn't been hacked and if it does sense anything's wrong and to literally go back and automatically revert back to a previous firmware if it detects something's wrong. [Michelle] okay and that's unique HPE ? [James] That's very unique to HPE. [Michelle] Great. Last question for you is around use cases. So in my previous segment we talked about use cases a little bit kind of the traditional ones but as in your role chief technologists you talk with customers all the time so what are you seeing as unique use cases? [James] Yeah so our common use case for Azure Stack - and I use the words 'Azure Stack' as it's a private cloud instance of Azure public so it's on your data center well I was talking to customers today and they're they're from Canada but they're in the oil in energy business so they have a lot of fracking stations and are deployed out in middle of deserts. They've got only oil drilling rigs and mining situations so they want to basically take Azure Stack and do real-time analytics of the data on-site it's so much data that they couldn't pipe it to the cloud and process it and bring it back down so they have to process it on-site in real-time and then they use the public cloud as the transmission of the answers but that real-time data is a really good case and we call it an 'edge' or 'connected item' at the very edge of the cloud here in their case, which would be at an oil rig in their case. [Michelle] Okay great well thank you for joining me today I appreciate your time and we'll be talking soon okay thank you 