 Hey guys, huddle up! It's time for another Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. In this Chalk Talk I want to introduce you to Timeless Storage for HPE Primera. Timeless storage for HPE Primera is a new program designed to transform storage ownership. It does this by offering  customers who purchase any HPE Primera all-flash array the opportunity to subscribe to a new HPE Technology Refresh Service on top of their usual flexible support services from HPE Pointnext. Let's look at the basics of timeless storage for HPE Primera. You get it when you subscribe to HPE Technology Refresh Service along with flexible support services from Pointnext and keep both services current. Every three years you'll receive a non- disruptive technology refresh at no additional cost. What are the benefits? This creates a simple subscription model for storage modernization that reduces total cost of ownership for storage by up to 40% compared to legacy storage acquisition cycles that require customers to repurchase capacity, controllers, and software every three to five years. The result is technology that's always current with zero disruption to your business and no more forklift upgrades. How does it work? You'll get your first upgrade towards the end of year three and then every three years so long as you continue to renew your subscription. You don't need to do anything. We'll reach out to you when you become eligible for technology refresh and we'll reach out to you for renewals as well. And when you do, you'll have the opportunity to discuss any alternative hardware requests that you might have. For example, instead of our standard inter-generational upgrade you may be able to expand a two node system to a four node system. Just remember you may be responsible for any cost differential and for associated installation and startup services. Next let's talk about how the Timeless Storage transforms the ownership experience. Although the non-disruptive tech refresh every three years is a major benefit of Timeless Storage for HPE Primera, by no means the only benefit. When you subscribe to the HPE Technology Refresh Service, you benefit from transformation in three areas. Transform storage acquisition: one way we do this is a capacity efficiency guarantee available under the HPE Store More program that allows you to spend less on all-flash through better overall efficiency. Transform storage ownership and maintenance: one way here is a subscription based approach to storage modernization that delivers an as a service experience. Storage modernization: including media trade-in credit that allow you to save on refreshing your storage media. I mentioned a 40% TCO savings - let's look at how we do that over six years. We designed the HPE Technology Refresh Service to deliver a savings on total cost of ownership. This savings is based on the comparison of two different modernization strategies: the Timeless model versus a traditional storage purchase. When you purchase the timeless option and renew it just once for a total of six years you will receive two technology refreshes. If we compare this cost to purchasing just one next generation HPE Primera system, the model savings is about 40%. Note that this example is based on the purchase of an A650 and assumes that the next generation HPE Primera will be priced at a 10% premium over modeled street pricing for the first generation Primera. Smaller configurations will see a lower TCO savings. Next let's talk about how timeless storage for HPE Primera is different. It's different from other HPE offers and different from all other offers that our competition have. First only the Timeless Storage program for HPE Primera delivers tier-0 storage from mission-critical apps including a 100% availability guarantee that's unique in the industry. Secondly only Timeless Storage for HPE Primera offers flexible upgrade options such as controller node expansion or intra-generational upgrades for customers that don't want the standard inter-generational upgrade. And third with Timeless Storage for HPE Primera you get a technology refresh at no additional cost after three years with only a three-year commitment required. You don't have to renew the program in order to get the first technology refresh - only if you want to continue receiving future technology refreshes. Let's quickly look at how you stand to benefit. You extend the life of your storage investments. You get the latest architectural innovations delivered non-disruptively every three years, and you do away with forklift upgrades and associated costs and risk. You eliminate concerns around technology obsolescence. You simplify storage purchasing and tech refreshes with a subscription-based approach. You introduce a more predictable cost structure for storage by doing away with traditional storage purchasing and depreciation cycles. And you get future technology updates delivered as a subscription for accounting flexibility. HPE Primera is Timeless Storage. To learn more go to hpe.com/storage/HPEPrimera I always love to hear from you on twitter where you can find me as @CalvinZito. You can find our blog at hpe.com/storage/blog. Until next time thanks for joining me on this Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk CC by Calvin Zito 