 Due to the coronavirus pandemic, election officials across the country are expanding vote by mail and other remote voting options. The AAAS EPI Center has been reaching out to election officials across the country to share evidence on the security of voting systems, including security threats posed by returning marked ballots over the Internet. Its June 2020 report, co-authored by Free Speech for People, included a number of recommendations to limit the risks of remote ballot marking systems often used by people with disabilities. There is still a disability gap in voting, with roughly 5% lower turnout in the 2018 midterm election, equivalent to about 2.4 million votes, for individuals with disabilities. Remote ballot marking systems allow voters to receive a blank ballot, mark it electronically, if necessary, print, and then cast their votes, by returning the printed ballot to the elections office. Yet there are security and privacy risks introduced with electronic blank ballot delivery and remote electronic ballot marking. There is broad scientific consensus that online voting is not secure. Scientists, elections experts, and federal agencies warn that electronic transmission of voted ballots poses significant security risks to the confidentiality and integrity of ballots. A 2018 consensus study report on election security by the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) stated that “no known technology guarantees the secrecy, security, and verifiability of a marked ballot transmitted over the Internet.” The most secure approach to remote voting is to mail pre-printed paper ballots to voters. This allows ballots to be hand-marked and to be mailed back or dropped off in a condition suitable for immediate scanning. Jurisdictions should make every effort to ramp up their capacity to bulk mail paper ballots to all voters, or to as many as allowed by law. In jurisdictions unable to procure sufficient pre-printed ballots, officials should explore options for providing blank ballots through the Internet. Most voters would then print the blank ballot on their own printers, mark their choices with a pen, and mail it back. Voters who can mark a ballot privately and independently by hand should be advised not to mark the ballot electronically before printing, even if that capability is available in the software they are using. Electronically delivered ballots pose a higher risk of unauthorized duplication, warranting authentication of the voter’s identity and eligibility. Only voters with a disability impacting their ability to mark a ballot by hand should have access to remote electronic ballot marking systems. The most secure systems for remote accessible ballot marking confine vote selection data to the voter’s devices, are not connected to the Internet when selections are made, and remove vote choices from all memory upon closing. The AAAS EPI Center’s mission is to deliver clear, concise and actionable scientific evidence to decision makers. EPI Center makes it easier for people to access scientific evidence and information and then integrate that evidence into their decision-making process. For detailed recommendations on this and other voting security issues, please visit www.aaas.org/epicenter. 