 This is a video walkthrough of the Community of Interest Tool that is currently under development by the Statewide Database. The purpose of this tool is to provide public access to California's statewide redistricting process. Our tool is designed to be a resource for users to create public input and submit directly to the California Redistricting Commission. The key features of our tool are that it's free to use, it's user friendly and accessible, it's available in multiple languages,  and it's available on the web. That way, users can participate from anywhere that they can get online and onto the internet. Through our tool, users can create a map drawing of their Community of Interest,  include written testimony to help the California Redistricting Commission better understand who their community is and why they should be kept together, and finally export a shapefile of their map and a text document of their written testimony directly to the California Redistricting Commission for their consideration. Next, we will do an introductory overview of the feature set of the community of interest tool. At the start, users will be prompted with an authentication modal. They can access this tool through two options: a guest account or through creating an account with us. Regardless of which option they choose any user on our site will be able to create Community of Interest maps and submit to the Commission. The difference is simply a matter of saving work to revisit later. The Community of Interest Tool will be available in multiple languages which the user can change at the point of login or at any point during their use of the tool. In this demo we will be using the tool as a guest user. Later on, we will highlight the distinguishing features of a user account. There are two main sections of the interface. The first is the map area on the right. This is where the user will be doing their drawing of their community of interest. Users can pan, or click and drag, the map to navigate to a specific part of California or they can zoom in and out of the view using these plus or minus buttons or by scrolling on their mouse or track pad. Another helpful navigational feature is this drop-down menu on the bottom left corner. Users can use this to toggle between different base maps, which are the underlying geography. One example is OpenStreetMap which provides a colorful view. Another example is our default, Stamen, which is a black and white view. I will demonstrate our drawing capabilities through an example Community of Interest around the University of California, Berkeley campus. I'll show this in a different tab so that you can see the area already zoomed in. Zooming in and out is used as a navigational tool. What zooming also does is enable different census geography to appear on the screen. These become the selectable geography units by which the user can add or remove shapes to their Community of Interest. For example, we have county, place, tribal, tract, and block geography levels. You can preview which type of geography you're selecting by in this top right corner. Right now, we're at the tract census geography level, represented by these red lines. If I zoom in a bit, we will be in the block census geography level, which are represented by these black lines. On the left side of the screen, we have the second main section of the interface. This side panel contains space for written testimony as well as a minimal set of selection tools for drawing your map. Within our selection tools, we have four options. The first is Single Select. The user can click and add individual shapes to their Community of Interest. Next is Rectangle Select. With this, users can click and drag an area to be added to their Community of Interest. Next is Lasso Select. With this, the user can do a bit more of a freehand selection. Finally, we have an erase tool that allows the user to remove units by clicking individually or by clicking and dragging areas. There are also undo and redo buttons if the user would like to remove or revert recent changes. At the top of the panel there is a Community Name section. For this example, I will call this the UC Berkeley Community. In the bottom section of this side panel there's space for written testimony. Here we provide two main prompts: "What is the mutual interest?" and "Why should it be kept together?" These questions are subject to change per Commission request or based on any requirements they may have regarding what information should be included in public commentary. This entire section is designed to give the user space to paint a picture of who their community is. When you're ready to submit your Community of Interest to the Commission, you can select the Submit button at the bottom left corner of the screen. When you do so, you will be prompted by a final modal that provides a summary of the written testimony you included before, as well as a preview of your map. This will be your final chance to review the written testimony and the shape of your Community of Interest before sending it off to the Commission. Lastly, on the right hand side of the screen, the user will be asked to fill out their name, as well as a Re:CAPTCHA verification form. After submitting their Community of Interest, users can be emailed a copy of their submission which they can then share with neighbors, community members, or just keep for future reference. If a user does not want to immediately submit their Community of Interest, they have the option of saving a draft of their work to a user account using the Save button on the bottom of the side panel. In this next tab I'll log into my account. After a successful login, I am presented with the My Maps page that will contain a history of my Drafts and Submissions. This looks similar to our map drawing page. However, a key difference is that on the map on the right hand side the user won't be doing any active drawing. Instead, this map is just a display of old drafts or past submissions. If they click on a draft or submission, the map will navigate to that geographical location. This helps users see where their Communities of Interest lie in relation to one another. Although past submissions can't be revised, users may open a draft to edit and continue working on them from My Maps, or they can start a completely new map from scratch. This has been a brief walkthrough of the things that can be accomplished with our Community of Interest Tool. Thank you so much for watching, and if you have any further questions, please contact Marinella or Jaime at the Statewide Database. 