 Hi, I'm Agustín Arroyo, also known as Flowalistik. I'm a designer and teacher specializing in 3D printing and digital manufacturing. I’ve developed everything from products to 3D printed models for companies such as Ultimaker, BCN3D, PrusaPrinters, and LowPoly. With this technology you can manufacture any three-dimensional product based on digital files. It’s a quick and accessible way to create simple or detailed decorative or functional pieces. It’s the ideal technique for building models. You can control and oversee each stage of the architectural project from the 3D concept to the final product. In this Domestika course, you'll learn how to make high-quality models with 3D printing. As a final project, you'll design an architectural or scenographic model, print it in 3D, and give it a personalized finish done by hand. To do so, we’ll install Fusion 360 to design your model and PrusaSlicer to transform those files into real objects. I'll teach you the basic tools you'll need to model your project, then we’ll start designing the structure and move on to the details. We’ll review the meshes and prepare the files for printing. Then I’ll show you some tools to correct 3D models. Next will be to learn the printing parameters in PrusaSlicer and discover the potential of the support material. To finish, we’ll look at the materials for 3D FDM printing, and once the pieces for our model are printed, we’ll talk about post-processing the surfaces and figures. Then we’ll add paint and finishes and I'll show you how to glue the pieces together and assemble your model. By the end, you'll know how to transfer virtual models to the real world with 3D printing. To take this course, you'll need a 3D program and the free PrusaSlicer software. You'll also need access to a 3D printer and filaments in various colors. If you want to post-process the pieces you manufacture, you'll need a cutter, fine-grain sandpaper, glue suitable for plastic, and acrylic or spray paint. Give life to your models with the latest technology. Sign up at Domestika.org Create. Share. Learn. 