 hello all you beautiful people my name is Alex Steele this is Mod Shapes and today I'm going to talk to you about the process that I often use if I download something from Thingiverse for functional 3d printing and I get frustrated because I'd like to make a little change to it but it's already a mesh that's set in stone can't change it - well this is how I do it! let's get started - step 1 bring your geometry into fusion 360 by choosing import geometry and now once it's in here let's analyze it visually this is a cylinder so we'll start out drawing a sketch which has a diameter of the cylinder - you just do this by eye and then start building the 3d parts off that sketch okay step two - use materials in your workflow. in this case I'm using transparency to help me out I'm setting some elements in the design as transparent so I can see how things are constructed on the inside. as we'll be using articulating parts later now as you build. step three is just naming these fusion steps as you build them because a well-organized setting makes it much easier and more fun to make changes later. and it makes it more fun when we get to set the user parameters. so as the old saying goes - clean as you go step four - start building your user parameters. now since you did this visually - all you have to do is going into edit or change user parameters and start by pressing the plus button to create new ones, and name them intelligently. use the values that were generated in your visual design process. step 5 - go into your manage user parameters again and this time reassign the values that were previously created doing the visual design aspect. with the new user parameters that you've just created. Since the handle portion is complete follow the same steps outlined in this video - to describe how to create the second half of the object use your visual tools. Once everything's been creative visually go back in create user parameters, and with those values go and assign the user parameters to the sketch then finish out the extrusion with your visual aspect. go back in and edit whatever parameters would like and again this is a great time to mention that since you can download this file, I highly recommend downloading the file and taking a look and following along with the steps. they should be named exactly what their names are when the video is published. Also... I decided to not to go for the full knurling feature on this. I kind of thought it'd be more fun to have just a little bit of grip but not not the total knurling so what I'm showing here and doesn't really look exactly like the original but that's where this gets fun! This is parametric and that's the beauty of Thingiverse you can do an upgraded or improved version of an object that changes how you see fit. The cross-section shows us clearly that this model now is parametric and it does have tolerance built-in on both the left and right sizing at the center part of the handle that will allow rotational movement and this is going to be fantastic! so the next step is we're going get this out of fusion and we're going to print it. now traditionally it's been a little weird (3d print command) how do you get that combined item out of fusion? Well, what I found is instead of exporting the 3d print by choosing the two different pieces, bring them out ,and try to consolidate them... Fusion actually allows you to export as STL and it will it will export the two items together as one and then you can bring them in as one and slice them in your slicer! That's it for this one thanks for watching this turned out pretty great. Don't forget to check the links so you can find out where to download a copy of this file and follow along step by step and if you haven't already subscribe comment like the video share it with a friend I'll catch you guys and gals on the next one! 