 Hi, I'm Fran Cabezas, graphic designer and 3D artist. I've used various 3D programs throughout my career and after trying many, I opted for Cinema 4D. It's the most complete 3D program, as it allows you to create static images for printing and character animation or motion graphics for TV ads. Cinema 4D is the perfect package for 3D artists who want impressive results easily, as it's designed for beginners and for experienced professionals. Its well-known reliability means it is perfect for demanding professional productions in 3D. The Cinema 3D environment can be easily customized to suit the needs of the user and has many pre-sets that make it easy to get started. Compared with other professional programs, its main advantages are: high-speed rendering, a customisable and flexible interface a vertical learning curve, meaning you learn a lot quickly. In this Basics Cinema 4D, consisting of six courses, you'll master the wide range of tools and functions to quickly achieve impressive results. In the first course, there's an intro to the Cinema 4D interface how to set up a document and use the space. We'll be able to create and modify basic figures, select and work with hierarchy. In the second course, I'll teach you to use deformers and model with lines. In the third course, we'll focus on classic modelling from scratch with the help of innovative tools. In the fourth course, we'll bring a project to life using tools like lights, cameras and materials. In the fifth course, we'll go over animation basics using tools and labels. In the sixth course, we'll take the final steps towards the end result through rendering and post-production. For this Basics course you don't need previous experience; just an interest in the world of 3D. We'll start with the basics and you'll soon be creating tri-dimensional scenes with a realistic and impactful effect. You'll need a computer with Cinema 4D, preferably the latest version, OctaneRender, Premiere and Illustrator. Your computer will need an Nvidia graphics card, as OctaneRender no longer supports Radeon Graphics. This Basics course is for anyone wishing to enter the world of 3D and motion graphics, for designers and artists to broaden their knowledge and anyone interested in the world of 3D. Professional 3D animation development has never been as easy. Take your scenes to the fourth dimension with Cinema 4D. Introduction to Cinema 4D Learn 3D from scratch to create unique characters and animations and render with OctaneRender Create. Learn. Share. 