 There are several things that we use 3D printing for. At the simplest level, I would say would be for printing anatomical models. So in many of the diseases that we deal with as orthopaedic surgeons, the bone may become crooked, shape is deformed and our role is to correct that shape. Now, by printing that model before we actually do the surgery, we have a much better visualisation of what is going on and therefore, we can both be more accurate in terms of the way that we correct them, we can actually even do it with kind of minimal invasive surgery, we can make smaller holes because we actually have the model in front of us, so we don't actually need to open as big an incision to see everything and so on. The second for surgery would be printing what we call guided jigs. So in orthopaedic surgery, very often, we have to put in screws and plates and rods, you know, once you've corrected a bone, we have to hold it in place. Whenever we put in anything to bone, we have to be careful that the thing that we put in doesn't damage other things like blood vessels, nerves or important organs and so on. Now, if we are not able to see everything, then there is a chance that we may damage something. It's like, if you drill a hole into the wall, you have to be sure that there's no electric cable or a water pipe in the wall before you drill in the hole. Now with 3D printing, and based on the person's CT scan or MRI before surgery, we can actually print guided jigs that we can actually place on the bone to allow us to accurately drill those holes without damaging vital anatomy. The third area that we're also developing is metal 3D printing. And for that, we can actually print personalised implants. So with people who have areas of bone that has to be actually excised, for instance, if they have a bone tumour, so we have to take the whole bone away, then we can actually print metallic implants that we can replace that piece of bone with and screw into place, and of course, because we're replacing something, it has to be of the exact same shape and dimensions. And the fourth area would be so called bio printing. So one additional step onto metallic printing is that we actually print, if you like, the organ, which in our case is, let's say, bone. So we print a protein scaffold, or some sort of scaffold, in which we can have, the printer can also print cells, and the cells are inserted in the scaffold, they can then be grown in a culture medium into a live piece of tissue and then reimplanted. That is of course, much more experimental at this stage, but I can see that in future that is something that we will be able to do as well. 