 Hey makers! Cuara was going to spend his entire bonus on an poncho for (September) 18th, but I told him not to do it because we could print him one! I'm going to show you how to do this project without a multi-material printer! Let's go! First, I'm going to look for a poncho that I like. Do a search with your preferred web browser. I like these that come in an assortment. I chose this one even though it doesn't have all the colors of the country's flag, but if I feel like doing it in other colors in the future, I can. Thanks to designer Agustin Flowalistik, we have a model of a chain link that easily links up with others to form fabrics. We can print in the colors that we have and link all the pieces in our own design. I recommend that you download the single link piece and a bigger panel that correlates to the size of your idea, or the dimensions of your printer. I took Cuara's measurements. Think about your design, and if you have thin parallel lines like mine, it's better to orient the fabric's pattern like this, with the links tilted diagonally. For example, this design is like mine, and you can see that its single white lines are tidy looking, while this other one...has a flat border and you can see that lines one link thick are more defined along the diagonal. That's to say that depending on your design, it will probably favor one orientation or the other. Things get tough when there are lines in all sorts of directions. Why does this matter? Because it helps us in planning our pattern. I'm going to do a sketch of it in Google Sheets. I need to know the quantity of links [I'll need]. Note that this 4x4 patch is 48 millimeters, and the other orientation takes up a little more space. In general, the measurement of a chain is 1 centimeter more than the number of links. In Google Sheets you can create your design. Select the columns, and change their size so that they resemble a grid. Every square represents a link. I change the background of the cell like this...and if you're copying another design you can leave its window open to use as a reference. When it's done, you can count the number links of each color you'll need. Now that we know what we're going to print, we have to prepare it. I used the slicing program PrusaSlicer. I like this program because it's quick to open and slice. We're going to take advantage of its ability to separate aggregate objects in a model, and that way we can remove certain components of a file. Click on the button with the letter "P". and now a list with each link is generated, and I can eliminate some of them from there. For example, I need a panel that is 8 by 3. I'll erase the last 7 rows...a few more...and good to go! With this button I duplicate this grouping and print what I need according to how many there are in the design. Printing your pieces with this technique can save you some time when you go to stitch everything together. This button arranges everything that appears on the print surface. It's possible to save all this and import the file into another slicer like Cura if you feel more comfortable generating your gcode there. hey code...código hey...? What do the Chileans call it? Let me know in the comments. This mesh I'm going to separate for the border of the poncho. Observe that I didn't do my bed leveling very well because on the right side the pads of the links are almost touching. In the end, I didn't have any problems...but make sure they have sufficient space so that they don't fuse. It seems to me that printing the links in groups stops being efficient when you need them separately or in chains of one by one. The added travel distances from one link to another makes this approach take longer. No matter what, it is a lengthy process so you've got to have a little patience! It wouldn't be a bad idea to print more than you need because taking them off the bed or while you're linking them up, they can break on you. I've already got the first red strip attached. This is how they look after you've printed them. We've got to flip them around to the other side. Here, check out how there's a really narrow opening in each corner of the link and the model forms an arch, like it comes to a point at the end there and the idea is align those features on each, bring them together so that both sides almost touch there and slip them into each other. That's how they connect. And now we do this maaany many more times. Align...slide...turn...and repeat. I find it easier if you let everything flop over the back of your hand as you go. Sometimes the links get positioned awkwardly, but with a little help they fix themselves. ...and that's it! It's good to have your printing temperature, retraction and cooling well-adjusted. If not, you'll have a lot of stringing and blobs on the print and that'll complicate this process. Now we have the patterns that repeat... The bigger the pieces get, the harder it becomes to stitch them together. Now all I've got to do is put the border on, which I printed with the same gcode that the black used. After that, I'll separate everything in groups of three. Remember that I have to respect the orientation that the fabric has, which is why I haven't divided them in 3 groups of 8. These white links will be the other part of the border and I was seeing if I could save some time because they print faster like this. Good thing that I didn't record any of that experiment! Turns out it was really hard for me to divide them according to orientation in which I needed them . It has to do with the size of the section I printed...it's simply just easier to work with things that are smaller Yet, of course I can't avoid that now seeing as how we're almost finished! You're looking at 20 hours of printing!! In the future, I want to try uniting strips of different colors by pausing the print just before the links close up, hook on another pre-printed strip and afterward continue printing the upper part of the fabric. Cuara wouldn't be a true huaso piggy without a hat and spurs, right!? This is the 18th of September, compadres! A crazy week of celebration and entertainment!! 