 Hey guys, what's up? Welcome to another video from Oficina 4D. A lot of people asked me to show a specific technique to make rooted hair on the figures. This Kratos project will be divided into two or three videos and I'm going to explain why at the end of this one. And before we begin I will talk a little bit about our sponsors! If you are looking for high quality 3D printers, filaments or resins I suggest you take a look at Slim 3D's website. They offer a great support service and you can use our discount coupon at the end of your shopping. The coupon is OFICINA4D and I will leave their website link and discount code in the description below. Now about the painting process, that is what we do mostly around here, I use airbrushing for the most part and the most recommended ink type is the automotive one, which prevents issues like clogging the nozzle. And I use the products from TopColors that are ready to use and you can find them at the website that I will also leave in the description. They've recently released new types of colors, like the pearly ones, universal primer (with different kinds of color) and I am sure you guys are going to like it. So now that our intro is finished, let's go to the video! Now that I've already made the sanding process to remove support marks, rough layers and other kinds of imperfections I am going to start making some skin texture. If you don't know how to post-process your 3D prints I highly recommend you to watch our other videos where we show how to do that in PLA and ABS. So anyways, To make this skin texture I've applied a layer of primer and waited half the dry time, and then I made some small holes with a needle to bring the pores out a little bit. I also gave depth to the scars and wrinkles. After that I waited for the primer to get completely dry and then I applied one last layer. Now we go to the actual painting. I grabbed my airbrush and started applying a coat of light skin tone mixed with a little bit of gray. Then I went to the splatter technique (which is very important to give that realistic effect) so we could give more texture to the skin. I start with some red, now keep in mind that the ink must be very diluted and try to make the dots as little as possible. For reference, it should look like this: Then I followed on with other colors using green, light and dark brown, blue, yellow, skin tone and even white. After that I made the masking with silly putty and some pieces of paper trying to model the putty into his tatoo shape. I used a strong red tone with the airbrush, but later you guys will see that it will get more realistic as we apply different skin tone layers to neutralize all of this colors. Five minutes later, after the ink dries completely, I remove the masking. The good thing about silly putty is that it does not stick hard enough for it to damage the painting, which is a common problem that I suffer with common adhesive tape. It is most useful when I make paintings on metallic surfaces, such as Iron Man. Then, with a normal brush I make some corrections in the outline of the tatoo. After that I'll pick two skin tones and a gray ink and mix them together to get the "main skin tone" for Kratos. If you look closely, his version from the older games had a completely gray skin. That is explained earlier in the first game. But in the new one his skin isn't exactly grayish. There is a little bit of flesh tone that represents a nordic version of him, but it still has some remnants of his gray skin from years before, just like his tatoo which is also a little bit faded. This detail gives an insight on Kratos story because this time he is trying to forget his dark past and his skin shows this transition very well. A very good tip is to use an old cloth with acrylic skin tone very diluted. Do not use the automotive one because the solvents in its composition may screw up everything you did right now. So it has to be water based acrylics, ok? I make some soft touches on the skin and remove excess when needed. This is important to bring down his tatoo red a little bit and also make some variation. Then I started with some shading. I used the same dark skin tone to give a coat on the area where his beard grows, that will help me alot later on. Then I applied some very diluted red on the side of his nose, forehead, chin and ears. This allows for better understanding of the geometry. Now I will put it aside for a little bit and talk about the beard effect. I grabbed these sewing threads that are used in overlock machines and are easy to unravel. Try to get as many different colors as possible, it will be more realistic. In this example that I recorded I put a lot of gray thread, but later on I started prioritizing the darker brown color. And to cut it I recommend using some small scissors because they will be useful later. And with an old toothbrush I start to unravel the "hair", but be careful not to brush it too many times. Otherwise it will become plushie and we will loose the hair effect, we don't want that. To stick the hair we need silicone glue. I tried the cyan acrylate one (instant glue) but it went horribly wrong because it dries fast and makes the hair look like a rock, ruining the painting. The one I use is silicone because it is the best option I've figured out, but if you know something that could work better please let me know in the comments! Now I finish filling the beard area and modeling it with a barbecue stick to remove the excess of hair and glue. After that I came back to the painting and started the eyes. Note that they are not completely white, so I mixed up a light skin tone with a little bit of red. And then I went for the iris background with black, and then its inside with a greenish yellow. Now the pupil. After that I applied the eyebrows with the same sewing threads. And this part was very complicated, but with some patience it turned out pretty nice. Then I finally cut out the beard using some images as reference so I could know the size and volume of the facial hair. After that, it is important to cut the wicks diagonally (almost vertically) in order to give them a more natural feeling. The last step was to make the scar Kratos has on his right eye. First I made this first "coat" of dark brown and then I used a pinkish skin tone (not very different from the medium skin tone we used before) to make the main color of the scar. The ink must be very diluted to make it easier to correct mistakes, and the best strategy is to make it layer by layer. That is the main advantage of acrylics. After that I just made the tatoo stand out a little bit with some darker red, but trying not to mess with that faded effect we did. For that I also made the red ink very thin and applied it in layers, removing any excess. And this is the final result! Hey, so what did you think of the video? Pretty nice, right? Thank you all for watching! I would like to explain how this project will work in the next few weeks. It takes a lot of time to make one video per print because the painting process requires a lot of steps! So I thought of dividing the videos to make it easier to edit and to produce content here in the channel. For example, one of our most recent videos has 17 minutes in length and it could be easily divided into 2 ou 3 parts. That way I will be able to post new content weekly :D Also, in the next video I'll be reviewing AnyCubi Photon-S, a resin DLP printer. So stay tuned! Thank you all for watching, if you could leave a like it would help a lot! And also feel free to subscribe :D Se you later! 