 How do you feel about experience management? Each and every company is searching for the one idea and for the one feeling that makes or breaks a company, makes or breaks your business, makes or breaks your industry. We are working with many, many companies, like, for example Adidas, on the technology of 3D printing. What does this really mean towards industries, towards your business, towards the processes behind this? So, imagine this thing will be really cheap and you can place it in your living room. And what do you have to do? You don't have to go anymore to the store to pick up your favorite sneakers. But what you can actually do is print this sneaker at your home. And what would happen is that Adidas, for example, will not have production lines anymore. They won't have warehouses. They won't have distributions. And there's even the question if they will have stores in the future because you can just download the file from the Internet, put it on your 3D printer at home and print your own sneakers. So those are business models that we talking about with customers in reality. And even if you think that those things just happen for big companies, I will tell you this one. Everybody recognize Kielce in Warsaw, or in Poland. So Kielce is more or less in the middle of nowhere in Poland. And they have a huge shopping mall service. I went into the shopping mall and this is what I saw. This store, it looks like this. And I was like, oh, this is fancy. Like, they have those TV screens, and I was looking in there and I thought, Okay, what is the store actually about? It's a shoe store. So what you do is you get into the store and the first thing that you do is you scan your feet. And based on your feet scanning, they recognize, or they give you the opportunity to go then to one of their tablets, and they show you the exact shoes that fit to your specific feet. This is how they personalize their items in the store towards your needs. What do you see in the background is a fully automated warehouse. So, you pick on the iPad, for example, these specific shoes, and somebody from the staff will then bring the shoe to you. And what they do is actually they now have the time to really focus on you as a customer. To talk with you about why is this shoe fitting and why isn't it, and why should you choose another shoe for example? This is what we call the experience gap. This is what happens to businesses. This is when you as a company think “Hey, I'm fine with my products, with my distribution channels, with my customers." "They are buying my stuff.” But the customers actually realize that there's a gap between their needs and what you, as a company, actually delivers. And this becomes even more important, as we live in a world, which we call “The Experience Economy,” where you do not just sell products based on their features, or the price or whatever it is about the product, the color, the packaging, etc. It is about the experience behind this product. People are actually switching brands based on the experience they have with those brands. If you have a bad experience with specific brands, it's likely that you won't buy again from them. Right? So, this is actually, when we talk about the experience gap, this is the innovation potential for companies nowadays. Figuring out, okay, what is happening in this world, and how can I do something about this? How can I realize this potential between what I think I do for my customers, and what the customers actually experience? All of those companies that we have out there in the world they are doing nothing else. And the interesting fact is that you're still driving taxi. The interesting fact is that you're still booking homes or hotel rooms. The interesting fact is that you still listen to music and still watch TV. But what they did is they put the human and the need of the human in the center - the center of their universe, making it the center of their decisions. To figure out what is it that my customer actually needs and where's the gap. When do you actually figure out “Okay, there is a gap happening with my customers.” Where you normally figure it out is in the operational data. This is where in your systems, your SAP systems, the sales force is going down or, for example, the inventory turnover, or for example ACV or  your margin is shrinking. And then you figure it out. Okay, there is something happening in my business and this is why I now have to focus on where this is coming from. And this is too late. Because the gap already exists, the customers are already not buying your stuff anymore, and this is why it's getting reflected in your operational data. So, what we do with experience management is putting another category on this, which is the X-data, which is all about the experience of our customers, which is all about the questions “Were you satisfied?" "Would you promote this company, this service, this product to a friend?" "And what can we improve?” It’s actually like the crystal ball, looking into the future, looking into what does this really mean for my industry, for my business? What's the future of my business? This is what we do. And the question is now, how can you win in this experience economy? What do you have to do to really succeed in this new environment? So what you have to do is figure out why are people buying your stuff, and why wouldn't they? What you have to figure out is why do people work with me and for my company, and why wouldn't they? And even more: how can I improve on this? What are the gaps that I don't see because I'm blind? And what we try to do is actually to put feelings as the foundation of your business decisions, to bring a whole new category up for this. So what are feelings? Feelings are nothing else than the moments that matter for you. All of those moments, changing your perception about a specific thing. And it can happen everywhere. It can happen when you sit in an airplane, looking out through the window, thinking about something… Or it can be when you are on your way, when you commute to work, or when you talk to your children, or when you cook something. All those moments can matter for you. What we have to say is that when you figure out those moments that matter for your customers, this is where you can close the experience gap. This is your competitive advantage in your industry. Because when you're figuring it out, either for your company or for all the other companies that you're competing with - this is your sweet spot. This is where your business gets to the next level. So, the question is, how do we do this? What's our answer to this? And our answer to this is experience management. This is mainly based on actually understanding the feelings of our customers, understanding what they are really thinking. And I want to give you an example of why this matters. This is United. Anybody here flew with United? A few. So, I flew two times with them, and I had such a bad experience with them. It was a transatlantic flight, like 13 hours, and they didn't have an entertainment system. There was no entertainment system and nobody told me in the beginning that I could have downloaded their app to actually have an entertainment system. I sat in the airplane for 13 hours, and I decided I would never take this airline again. And they have history on this. And they have a history of that experience. So why have they? Their problem was that they sold...or oversold the product. They sold more tickets than the actual seats on an airplane. So, they had a problem with their product. And this leads to a problem with the employees because those employees were sitting at the gate and all of those customers, angry customers, were coming and saying “Yeah, I want to board on this airplane.” And there was one lady then saying, because she was so fed up with this whole situation, because it happened all the time. She said "Okay, go on  the airplane. I don't care. Go in there, make your own experience, whatever.” And what happened is, this is what we all know, the video that went viral, where they take this guy who wanted just to have his seat that he paid for, took him out of the airplane and beat him up. And what happened then is it became a real brand issue. So, one thing, one single gap in the product leads to a gap in the employee experience, which leads to a gap in the customer experience, which leads to a gap in the brand experience. And this damaged the company. So it's really important to be aware of “what are my gaps and what is actually happening in my business?” What can we do about this? Like what kind of thing do we have  to use to actually make feelings reliable, rational, and put them at the basis of all business decisions? So, this is what we came up with this whole new category of experience management, where we have one platform to gather all those feelings and make them reliable for your business, to make them really understandable. This is more or less the steering control system for your company. The first thing we do is we gather the data from all different sources. We can gather social media channels. Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, all of those channels. We can include SMS, widget, emails, normal surveys to gather all of this data together, to bring it into one system, so you can have one holistic view of your business and of the customers that actually ask or give you feedback. The second thing that we do is we organize this data into a system, where you have a history about the consumer or the customer, and who actually asked him which question and which action item was related to it. The third thing that you see down here is actually to understand what does this data really mean for my business? What is it really that I can figure out of this data, and then closing the loop into action items? Based on these feelings, based on the data I get into the system, I do specific actions. And this is what we can see here. So it all starts in this directory,  where I gathered all my data together. It shows me the history of my customer, it shows me on which channel  I actually work with this customer together. Like what's the  preferred channel? And out of this data, I can actually build up the customer journey. I can build up the touch points, the moments that matter for this specific customer. And then I can realize, based on each of those touch points what's happening. Gathering all the data together to have one single view and a really easy way to consume this data and to really figure out where's my gap, and what to do about this gap. All of these, for sure, form the specific rules you need. Like, for example if you have a front line manager. And the thing is now: this is working but  the question is like, how do you scale this? What if you have ten thousand comments or two million comments on Facebook? How do you read this? And for this, we're using machine  learning to actually use sentiments and all of this to predict what is  really said in this comment, and how does it relate  back to your business? Is it more positive?  Is it more negative? And what does this really mean in the context of this whole comment? And what does it really mean in the context of your industry, or your specific business processes? What you can figure out are actually the drivers about what's going on in your business, where to improve and which steps you can really adjust and do something about. What we talking about here is more or less the “democratization of data analysis” for each and everybody. In former times, you needed to have somebody who can do data analysis, somebody familiar with statistics. And with this here, you can actually enable each and everybody in your company to use this thing to figure out what's in the feedback of my customers because it gives you a simple English  sentence about all this stuff summarized. All the data. This is like one hundred thousand data points of feedback. And this thing is calculating for you what does it really mean for your business. And we are using these  capabilities for four things, which is – coming back to  the United example – the product, the customer,  the employee and the brand. This is where we ingest the experience management to figure out what's happening there, what's the future in those respects and how can I actually do something about it. This new word in there gives you a totally different aspect of your business, giving you the opportunity to really understand your market, your customers, putting this into the operational system to really act on it, and then figuring out if I am on the right track. Do we actually see some value out of this?  Do I see results? Is the perception of my customers actually changing, or do I have to do something else. 