 Hello. This is Bookledge Today, I'll leave a making video with the title of making a dual gear extruder for 4.3 dollars A month ago, I purchased a dual-gear parts at AliExpress for $4.3 including shipping. This is because I found a print on thingiverse that can make BMG mini extruder with this part. And about three weeks later, this guy arrived. Now, let's start changing the dual gear extruder. A total of 3 output parts are required for operation. These parts are on the Singgi Bus, which was first printed out with this modeling. However, I found out that the prints I showed earlier are vulnerable to flexible printing in structure. So I printed it again The link of this final model will be put together in the comment section at the bottom of the video. After receiving it, you can print out 3 right modeling. Let's take out the parts that arrived from Ali. We also have four 30mm M3 bolts to connect to the motor later. Next, prepare a tension adjustment spring and bolts. Actually, I made it with a suitable spring in my house You can just buy this product and show it now. I will also leave the coordinates of this in the comment field. I'm going to write it, but don't worry You can use it as a spring that comes out after dismantling the existing extruder. Also put a link to the output of the tension knob knob in the comment field. Note please Lastly, if you want to install it on the CS-20, this is something you should see. The CS-20 has a filament detection sensor. When the dual gear extruder is mounted, the left and right sides of the pillar travel direction are the same. The height was 8.4mm. So I made a spacer that can correct the height. Since this modeling has been uploaded to thingiverse, CS-20 users should print it out and prepare it. Now let's assemble. The gear to be used for the lever can be a child without a bolt. Insert the two bearings enclosed in this gear and insert them into the lever output parts. At this time, pay attention to the direction of the gear. And you can insert the fixing rod, but I had a hard hole. At first, I wasn't looking at it with a rubber mallet, so I opened a narrow hole with a bolt and a lighter. If you have a drill, you can drill the hole again. This makes the assembly very good. Listen to the sound of crawling. Next is body assembly. The square nut that came with the gear is useless, so put it aside. Instead, one M3 hex nut is required. Insert the hexagon nut into the place where it is connected to the tension regulator of the upper part. If you have done this, you are almost there. All you need to do is combine the three output parts. First, combine the upper and lower parts, and then insert the lever. Then, insert the 4 prepared 30mm M3 bolts. This is how the extruder looks like? Now put the tension spring adjustment on the lever. I put one washer Combine the bolt and adjustment knob. Then, put a spring on the bolt and pass through the washer to engage the extruder parts. I tested to eat well tension. I feel good Now only the fitting needs to be combined. However, fittings taken out from the existing ones do not match these output parts. One fitting of the same size as the fitting on the nozzle side is required. When looking for a remix version on Singgi Bus, there are also models that combine fittings on both sides. Now, let’s proceed to the installation using the last remaining part, the motor shaft gear. First, combine the spacer for the pillar detection sensor of the CS-20 that was previously output. Other printer users can skip this process. Extruders can be disassembled by unscrewing the three bolts on the top. Pull out the fitting and Teflon tube, and then disconnect the motor cable. Replace the extruder gear on the separated motor shaft with a dual one. At this time, the headless bolt faces the flat surface of the motor shaft and is fixed by turning only slightly. Now it's time to connect the extruder you created earlier. Next, we need to get the exact position of the temporarily fixed motor shaft gear. I put the filament so that it is self-aligned and positioned it while reciprocating. Secure the tan bolt to the height at which the filament naturally moves back and forth. It is now done. Connect the missing motor wire and plug the Teflon tube into the fitting. So far, all the hardware is done. The only thing left is to change the ex step value to match the changed extruder. You can use M92 code or find the setting menu on the LCD window and change it. When I did the step value calibration process, I set it as if it was about 143. I finished all the processes and tried printing. It's coming out very well. However, when I checked the heat of the extruder motor, I saw that it had more heat than the existing extruder. 50 degrees is a good level for printing, We recommend that you print out the Extruder parts in PETG or ABS. Now it's time to print out the flexible, the core of this task. But the output quality is strange? This is because the extrusion distance is shorter than PLA because the flexible is extruded by pressing further in the EX gear. Simply increase the amount of extrusion or flow from the slicer, and it will come out like this. The new fact was that the flexibility of the flexible filament I bought in the same place was different. Anyway, the flexible output is going well without sticking out of the exo gear. The flexible also had a TPU and a TPE, but I suspected that the blue color was TPE. The blue color was softer and the output was more difficult. Anyway, including the existing Ender3 or CS-20 I hope it helps those who want to implement a dual gear extruder cheaply. If you liked the video, please subscribe, like, and set notifications. Thank you. 