 What is a 3D printer? This is a 3D printer. So here we have a 3D printer  that uses fused deposition modeling. OK? So we have a nozzle  that extrudes a plastic filament, heats up the filament and moves to deposit it layer by layer on a printing surface. The basic principle of 3D printing  is to print layer by layer, this is called additive manufacturing. Additive manufacturing groups together several different 3D printing technologies. In industry today,  we print using resin, ceramic, chocolate. NASA even prints  its rocket engines using metal. How old do you think 3D printing is? Three years. Three years? Five years. Five years. Ten years. Ten years. Sometimes, I even hear 2000 years. Well, no. 3D printing is 33 years old. Contrary to popular thinking,  3D printing was prototyped in France in 1984, but not by George Orwell, it was by… I'm going to look up his name  on my phone and I'll be right back. Alain Le Méhaute. So, what can you make with a 3D printer? You can make a ball bearing, for example. A Marvin robot, that's what  you will do in five minutes' time. A prototype for an airplane turbine. A prototype for an industrial robot. Or an actual part for an industrial robot. Even prosthetic hands for children. But let's move on. You don't need to know  how to model to print in 3D. On the Internet,  there is a site called Thingiverse where there is a collection  of files that people share. When you have chosen an object  on Thingiverse, there are three important things to look at. The Thing Details tab,  which contains all the important information you need to know before printing. The Thing Files tab,  which gathers all the files to be used for printing. And finally, the Makes tab, which tells you how many people  have already made this object, because on Thingiverse, a number  of objects are not necessarily printable. This tab also lets you view images  of the objects that have been made. To get you started with 3D printing,  I suggest you print a small Marvin robot. First, choose the printer you want to use. We have the Zortrax M200 and the M200 Plus. The M200 Plus is a slightly  newer model and has a touch screen. Make sure that the printers are not already in use by checking the status on the screen  and check that the printing surface is clean and that there is enough material  on the coil at the back. On the M200,  open the door and retrieve the SD card. The M200 Plus uses a USB flash drive. You will need to bring your own. Then, in Thingiverse, go to the Thing Files tab and download the first file. Launch Z-SUITE. Z-SUITE is the dedicated software  for Zortrax printers that you will find in all Makers' Labs  at EM Lyon business school. You can install this software free of charge  on your personal computer. You will then need to choose the right 3D printer. I'm going to use the M200 Plus. Click on ADD FILES and choose the Marvin file you just downloaded. In Z-SUITE, the cube that appears is the maximum size of the printer you selected. By left-clicking, you can press,  rotate around your object, and zoom in using the scroll wheel. On the left, there is an array of tools that let you manipulate your file. The first, MOVE, lets you change the position of your object on the printing surface. THE RESIZE tool lets you select the size. ROTATE lets you choose a different tilt. There is also AUTOARRANGE, which allows you to put the object back  in the center and on its feet. To print this small object,  we're going to use defined parameters, which I'll explain to you first. Clicking on PRINT SETTINGS  gives you all the printing options. The material used at the Makers' Lab is Z-ULTRAT. The second important thing  is the layer thickness. The thinner the layers,  the longer the print will take: It's up to you to find the right compromise between the desired print time and the quality. I recommend you choose a thickness of 0.19. Quality: Choose NORMAL. The last setting is INFILL. Start by choosing the pattern that will be used to fill your object and then you can select the infill percentage. For example, here, an infill density  of 20% was used, here it was 60%. 20% is usually more than enough. Do not hesitate to consult with us if you actually need  a higher mechanical strength. Let's use the support settings  to learn more about 3D printing. As we've just seen, 3D printing works  by layering wires. If there is no support, the wire will droop. Here are two example objects:  one is printed without support, the other with support. On the printed object without support, you can see that some sections above the gap have not printed correctly. The support is printed at the same time  as the printed object and can be easily removed by hand. But today, you'll just have to trust us. Some parts of the Marvin are above a gap, but we will print them without support. To deactivate the supports, I click on ANGLE and enter 0. When I've entered all my settings,  I click on PREVIEW. The object is separated into slices and, for each slice,  the software will generate a code for the machine to read. At 100%, you are given a preview  of what the machine will print, layer by layer. Estimates of the time and amount  of material used also display. If the print time is more than three hours, you will need to request validation  from a Makers' Lab Manager just to make sure that everything runs smoothly. Once I have inserted the card into the reader, I click on EXPORT FILE to save my file. Make sure you save to the card  that has the name of the printer or to your USB flash drive. We're so close now! If I use the M200 to print,  I switch on the machine, open the door, and insert my SD card connector at the front. I choose the model by clicking on Model, then Marvin. Finally, I click on Print. The printer warms up before it starts printing. The same goes for the M200 Plus. Switch it on, make sure there's nothing  on the printing surface. I insert my USB flash drive into the machine. I press on PRINT. I select my file. I make sure it's mine and then I print. Retrieving your printed  object couldn't be easier. There are spatulas for you to use. There's no point in forcing it,  otherwise you risk damaging the surfaces. Insert the spatula gently  under the object to remove it. The raft can easily be removed by hand. You have just completed your first 3D print. Now it's up to you! 