 (audience applauds) - Thank you, Carl. - Thank you, Carl. I really enjoyed, let's see, the slides. Let me see if I can make these slides work. I really enjoyed Andrew's talk. It's an exciting time. When I first started working in quantum computing, over 20 years ago, we had no idea that this would suddenly lead to some real quantum computers, and we're about to see that at this very moment. Or not at this moment, very soon. In fact, I'd like to get my students to put the IBM Q through its paces with the quantum algorithm, Simon's algorithm. Let me begin by talking about the different models of quantum computing, and there are quite a few out there. There's the quantum Turing machine, this is the first quantum model, created by David Deutsch, a famous pioneer in quantum computing, a student of John Wheeler. It was later found that the clock of this Turing machine would, unfortunately, entangle with the data on the machine, and there were different technical problems. So the next model was the circuit/gate model, which Andrew just talked about. And this has a lot of interesting properties, but we must be very careful that the size of the gates does not grow faster than polynomial time. And then, there is another model which is very interesting, the measurement based quantum computation, also known as one-way computation. What one does is create a huge entangled state, and then after that, one performs a series of adaptive measurements, each measurement depending on the previous measurements. There is also adiabatic model. This is the model used by the D-Wave. It's also known as quantum annealing. Essentially, this is based on the Adiabatic Principle. You start with a very simple Hamiltonian, and if you change the system very slowly, it stays, the quantum system stays in the ground six state, and at the same time, you move your Hamiltonian, so at the end, the ground state of the Hamiltonian, when read, contains the information you're computing. And then there is topological quantum computation. I see I have a typo there. Where one uses quasiparticles called anyons, Majorana fermions, it's a concept of braiding, and so forth. And the key feature here is not much error correction is needed. There's a natural topological obstruction barrier to the whole system decohering, decaying. And finally, there are quantum walks. You can think of a quantum drunk at a lamppost, who takes random steps from the post, and what happens is he takes these steps in superposition, and as time goes on, he's all over the place. And finally, I'd like to mention distributed quantum computing. Quantum computers do not need to be localized. In fact, there is some evidence that it's best to have them distributed over a quantum network. There are many different implementations. I'm only going to just mention a few. There's quantum optics. There is ultracold ion traps. In fact, I have a student of mine, Doctor Shehab, who's now working for the company IonQ. And they're on their way to building a quantum computer. There's spin-based quantum computers. There are superconducting devices, like the IBM Q. And there are quantum wires, for what we know as Majorana fermions. These are for topological computing. The race for quantum supremacy, this is a phrase coined by Jim Preskill, who's now Professor Emeritus from Caltech. And essentially this is a race to build a quantum computer that outperforms classical computers. And already, I know IBM has mentioned that they intend to win this race. There's a great deal going on here. I'd like to mention something else. This reminds me of Aesop's fable of The Tortoise and the Hare. It's entirely possible that one of the slowest technologies, that is topological quantum computing, may be the winner in this game. And we'll see, because there is a natural obstruction to decoherence. There's not as much need to have many qubits dedicated to quantum error correction. So all this began in a certain sense by the demise of Moore's Law. And this is driving a huge amount of change, disruptive change in our society, a major paradigm shift. And one of these major changes is quantum computing and quantum information science. This is going to affect society in a big way. That's why it's called disruptive technology. But more importantly, from my point of view, it will have a major impact on computer science education. And that's the purpose of my talk today, is to talk about education in quantum computer science. Universities now will need to train and produce, excuse me, my marker, what I call Renaissance Computer Scientists, computer scientists conversant not only in computer science, but also in other fields, such as physics and advanced mathematics. In fact, I asked all my students, who are going for Phd's in quantum and computer science, and quantum algorithms, to take courses in physics, quantum field theory, quantum mechanics, and advanced math courses in abstract algebra and me-groups. Milt has also asked me to mention, to talk about his two grants from NASA. He has received two NASA grants from the NASA Advanced Information System and Technology Office. One for slightly less than a million dollars that has just now come to a close. Another for slight, his most recent one is for slightly more than a million dollars. The title of that one, he has long titles, Assessment of Hybrid Quantum Annealing Approaches for Inferring and Assimilating Satellite Surface Flux Data into Global Surface Models. And Milt, I hope that the next grant you receive for two million will have a shorter title. (audience laughs) Excuse me. There are many accomplishments under this grant, and I'd like to mention a lot of our students in quantum computing are supported by it. I'll just mention a few of these. Basically, they've developed the first feed-forward neural net code on the D-Wave for performing regression approximation of multivariate and multi-year non-linear turbulent flux observations. Wow, that's very nice. And he's implanted and calculated one year of CO2 flux for the FFBP on classical and quantum computers. In the second grant, he's developed a multi-qubit error correction methodology for improving global minimum of D-Wave objective function. And he's implemented a non-negative binary matrix factorization on the D-Wave that's outperformed the classical one. So this is, there's some amazing results here. Now I'd like to go back to a brief history of quantum computing and CSEE Department. Over 20 years ago, we started quantum computing by introducing the first graduate course in that field, CMSC 643. This program has continued to grow, and it's enhanced by a DARPA QuIST grant on quantum algorithms, by support from the Army Research Labs on the quantum internet, and also by the previous NASA grant that I spoke about. Some of the current research in quantum computing at UMBC, some of our projects, we have a number of people working in topological quantum computation, quantum knots, Majorana fermions, creation of a correspondence between quantum automata and quantum entanglement. I have a student who's working on that. He's getting some very interesting results. Quantum logic, we're trying to redefine quantum logic in a form that's usable in quantum computing. Quantum protocols based on homotopy type theory. I have a student working on that. New quantum algorithms. We're always looking for new quantum algorithms. Distributed quantum computing. There's a great deal of work that needs to be done there. It's related to what the Army is doing at this time. And also, just recently, I have a student who's advising a novel quantum algorithm for factorization of integers based on the Buchberger Groebner basis algorithm. Now I'd like to mention some of our past PhD students. Roberta Sabin is a now-retired chair from Loyola. The topic of her dissertation was on non-error correcting codes. There is Doctor Anocha Yimisiriwattana. He wrote his dissertation on distributed quantum computation. And today that is very revelant for the Army's research on the quantum internet. In fact, it's very useful in that regard. Doctor David Cornwell, who works for Booz Allen Hamilton. He wrote his thesis on quantum hidden subgroup algorithms. And Doctor Omar Shehab, who now works for IonQ, and the topic of his dissertation was topological quantum computing, and is also quantum adiabatic computing. And he also told me to be sure to mention to the audience today that IonQ intends to win the race for quantum supremacy. (audience laughs) Okay, current PhD students. This is Ajinkya Borle. And Ajinkya is working on quantum Bayesian networks, and quantum algorithms for numerical computation. And this is Mark Laczin. He's working on, he's found an interesting relationship between quantum automata and quantum entanglement. He's also working on quantum protocols based on homotopy type theory. This is this year's class of quantum, new quantum computer scientists. When I look at this slide, I see that they're too happy. I need to give them more work. (audience laughs) This is our Quantum Nothing Seminar. This is some of the people involved in this. This is a venue for violent debates on quantum computation and quantum information sciences. We frequently take papers in the open literature and tear them apart. We have lots of fun. This is a Master's student, Joseph O'Malley. He's working on quantum games. He has a project there. Here we have Matthew Kousoulas, and he's working on topological quantum computation. And we have a newcomer here, Anthony Agwu, he just joined us two weeks ago. We'll put him to work right away. I'm sure that he has a lot to say. We also have a very important participant in our seminar is Doctor John Dorband. And we frequently challenge him on quantum adiabatic computing. We have lots of debates. And that's essentially it. There's a lot more I could say, but I think it's now time to stop. Thank you very much. (audience applauds) 