 Will a quantum computer break encryption and protection of Bitcoin? In this video, we'll talk about a possible threat to Bitcoin at the appearance of Quantum Computers and whether it is possible from it to be protected. To begin with, what is different about quantum computer from ordinary and why is it so much more powerful, than usual. We will explain with very simple words, so that everyone can understand the difference. Standard computers perform operations using The usual BITs that can equal to zero, or unit. Quantum computers use quantum bits or Qubits. Qubits can simultaneously be both a unit and a zero, that is called superposition. This is what gives the quantum computer such computational power. Speaking more simply, Normal computer to do 100 conditional calculations, must do 100 operations one after another. A quantum computer can at a time, simultaneously do all 100 calculations. Thanks to superposition the qubit can take on values, obtained by combining them, and be in all these states simultaneously. This is the parallelism quantum computing, then there is no need sort out all possible variants of system states. The larger the qubit in the quantum computer, the more parallel computing he can do. Deeper details in quantum mechanics, we we will not, since the goal the video is a bit different, but the general principle of work a quantum computer did you understand. Now, let's move on. to how the Quantum Computer can hack the system Bitcoin. Theoretically, the quantum the computer will be able to select private key by a well-known public key. Since the public key received from a private elliptic algorithm ECDSA curve. On the selection of a private key from a public the computer took a few trillion years. Quantum can do it's relatively fast. But the public key is not Bitcoin address that used to obtain Bitcoins. Bitcoin address is generated via HASH function RIPEMD-160 and SHA-256 from the public key and this process is irreversible even for a quantum computer. From the Bitcoin address it is impossible get a public key, since the HASH function is irreversible. Accordingly, without knowing public key, even a quantum computer does not will be able to calculate a private key from Bitcoin Address. But when signing outgoing transactions, public key all the same it is written down in the blockhouse and is available for viewing everyone, therefore vulnerable for quantum computations. But, if you transferred the Bitcoins to an address you did not previously used, then its public the key will not be visible in the blockroom, since this address does not transactions were made. And if the public is unknown key, then the private key quantum computer calculate can not. But here there is a problem with the creation of a new block. In the network Bitcoin a new block created every 10 minutes. And while new transactions do not have any confirmation, a quantum computer can calculate private key from the public and redirect transaction to an attacker's address with a larger commission. But the use of new Addresses will not solve the problem completely. Now, according to statistics, 41% Bitcoin addresses are used repeatedly. A gap of 10 minutes between creating a new endangers security payments. The problem with obtaining a private key from the public is pretty easily solved by the transition to another protection algorithm. Bitcoin has an updatable code, which since There was enough many useful updates, for example, Lightning Network and SegWit. To protect against quantum computer, you need only to update the protection system Bitcoin and start using post-quantum cryptography, for example based on HASH functions. One such method of protection, it is to replace the ECDSA algorithm to LEMport's signature. This signature cryptosystem with a public key that can be built on use of any one-sided HASH functions. Bitcoin is currently using several cryptographic Algorithms: The ECDSA algorithm, HASH function SHA-256 and HASH function RIPEMD160. A quantum computer can hack only the algorithm ECDSA, which can be safely replace with Lamport's signature or on the tree of Merkle, and for a few more variants of the signature. But Lamport's signature is very long and weighs enough a lot of. This can lead to rapid block filling and reduction bandwidth network Bitcoin. Let's look at another several variants of signatures, resistant to quantum calculations. Signature Winterica. In the signature of Winterica, in difference from the signature of Lamport, the original message is signed not bitwise, but blocky. One-time signature Winterkina, like Lamport, maybe is built on the basis of any resistant cryptographic function. Dimensions of the public key and the signature, with the same parameters, as for the signature of Lamport, are equal to 1 KB. In sum, this is less than in the signature of Lamport (24 KB). However, the number of operations computation of the hash in this case is 8160. Which, of course, very much. The Merkle Tree (MSS) One-time signatures are capable of ensure satisfactory cryptographic security, However, it is their one-off can become a serious problem. Let's say you need to transfer savings from one address another. It turns out that when using disposable signatures will every time translate all amount of funds, and for every transaction is needed there will be a new address. With every transaction you need will publish a new public key. In addition, the in the blockade of new transactions will gradually demand more and more time on their Search. To solve the problem, expand signature scheme through several signatures based on several pairs keys for each address. Using multiple signatures are performed on the basis of binary hash tree - tree Merkla. When using disposable Merkle or Winternitz there is no need to transfer separately selected one-off public key, because it can be obtained from the signature message. It is enough to transfer it number reflecting his position in the tree. The main drawback of the basic Mercell's scheme is that, that the number of available signatures is limited, and all key pairs are disposable signatures must be generated before computing the Merkle tree. But this problem solves use hyperdrive. Extended structure wood of the merkla (XMSS) XMSS scheme as well as the Mercell tree allows to expand disposable signatures. A scheme based on advanced signatures on the base connected structures of the Mercle (coherent XMSS). This scheme provides 196-bit protection that provides Highest protection against brute force quantum computers. As you see, the methods of protection from quantum computers quite a lot and written whole books about post-quantum cryptography. All that needs to be done Bitcoin for protection from quantum computers - is to make soft and enter an update for Transaction signatures. Even the standard signature Lamporta is already suitable for protection against quantum search, but a problem with scalability bitcoin will definitely decide in the blistering future. Now the question is brewing. Why Quantum Computer It can crack the ECDSA algorithm, and SHA-256 and RIMEPD-160 can not? The ECDSA algorithm relies on to the following statement: The complexity of the expansion of the number multiplied by simple factors exponentially on size key. This is true only for classical computers, but unfair for quantum ones. Using the Shore Algorithm on a quantum computer it is possible to expand the number by simple multipliers for acceptable time. This is what makes it possible to find private key from public key. But the SHA-256 algorithm is quiet confronts quantum calculations. Using Grover's Algorithm, for hacking SHA-256, quantum the computer 2 ^ 166 logical qubit cycles, or 10 ^ 32 years. This is much more than those 14 billion years that there is a universe. Now let's move on to the very interesting. Assume that we will create a quantum computer that can crack the ECDSA algorithm. The first to hit will fall Not Bitcoin, but banking systems, mail services, special services, large corporations in general everything that uses encryption algorithm, unstable to quantum computations. The appearance of a sufficiently powerful a quantum computer will affect all information system using asymmetric encryption. Quantum computers are already Now there are maximum the number of qubits is 51. This is absolutely inadequate to calculate the private key from the public. Moreover, the current quantum computers are designed for certain minimal functions on based on the finished data. About any sorting of keys and there can be no question. Many now can mention a quantum computer from company Dwave, which contains allegedly 2,000 qubit. But a quantum computer from the company DWave is not quite quantum. The D-Wave system is not a computer general purpose. He is only able to solve certain tasks for base of model algorithms Ising. this computer is used as a "system for optimized solutions » such problems as, for example, calculation of the most effective use of resources (time and fuel, for example) in the presence of different scenarios Problems. As Greg Tallant says: "In this vein, one can speak only on quantum annealing. We are putting tasks into the machine, the answers to which are known to us. After that, load in its tasks, the answers to which will need to be found. After that we will try combine information both tasks. Ultimately, on the basis of We can receive an answer to our task ". D-wave is a quantum annealing, rather than full quantum computer. The system is able to cope only with a limited number tasks. Current quantum computers absolutely do not threaten the current asymmetric cryptography and they can not threaten a few dozen years. Let's sum up a small total: • Theoretically, the quantum the computer will be able to hack asymmetric systems encryption • In case of minimum threat of quantum browse what will happen at least 20 years later - Bitcoin can update the algorithm digital signature for post-quantum and a quantum computer does will not be able to crack bitcoin. • The appearance of a quantum computer does not affect for Bitcoin mining in general, since this device another class, not intended for mining. To calculate the quantum hash the computer does not work, since it will have to be coordinated with classical electronics, and this will greatly reduce performance. • The appearance of a working quantum a computer capable of use the algorithm a shoal for breaking asymmetrically encryption will provoke transition of the entire system to post-quantum cryptography. • Full universal quantum computer yet is hypothetical device. At the moment there are only quantum devices annealing, on which only single experimental systems that perform fixed algorithm of small complexity. Ready, working quantum there is no computer for the time being, and there will not be a few more dozens of years. So a quantum computer, which breaks the algorithm ECDSA is from the fantasy section for the next 20 years. Be sure to leave Your comments under the video and share this video in in social networks. Also do not forget to subscribe on our channel and click to the bell to prevent skip new videos. 