 Fundamentally I'm passionate about trying to understand how the world works, and particularly at the level of individual atoms. And throughout my career I've made electronic devices and found that they're very rewarding, because you design and then build something that hasn't been made before, and then test it. Then I got into quantum physics, and I realised that there's a beauty of understanding the way the world works when you make things very small, so making very small devices. And in that time, there was this idea that if you could make devices out of it, where you have a single atom, you could actually encode information  on the quantum state. And so all of that was pushing technology,  pushing understanding, with the view that if you could achieve all of that,  you could actually build a computer that would give you a much better computing power than what we currently have. One thing I'm a big fan of is milestone-driven research. Each of the programs has got milestones, and when we meet as a collective, which we do four times a year,  everyone goes through their milestones. Everyone came up with milestones that we collectively agreed were, you know, internationally leading, and then as a consequence, we all then meet to discuss the milestones and we do it in a collaborative sense, if someone's got stuck on a milestone because, you know, postdoc's left or equipment didn't work, then we all come in to help. And so that's been a really good sense of helping each other, but it also keeps everybody recognising  that, you know, there's a pace. Actually I learned this from my husband,  and that is that - I used to be of the view, as a physicist you want to work something out, you've got to have quiet, peace, dedicated time, you know, where nothing interrupts you for a good three or four hours, and honestly, life can never be like that anymore. So I've learnt now that you just have to, whenever you get the chance, you've got to get on with it. And so to see every moment as a moment of productivity, if you can. I think the other thing I've learned is  communication is vital. And this is something I guess within my research team, the more you communicate,  the more people understand, you know, what you're both thinking, the better the research goes. You know, everyone worries about their careers so much and what they're gonna do, but actually the single most important thing that you can do in life is choose the right partner. For young women I think it's true, yeah? Because you know, everyone's different, people are going to want different work-life balances, and it's up to that family unit to make it work. But if you want to have a career  that, you know, is a full-on career, then you do need to have the right partner,  because it just won't work, otherwise. Just having faith to believe in yourself, and ultimately you know if you make a mistake - that's the other thing, I think a lot of people  are scared of making mistakes. If you make a mistake, who cares,  because at that time your knowledge was that, and that was the best thing you could do at that point. And if you've made a mistake, you'll learn,  and you'll do something else. And so, you know, so incorporating mistakes as a success has been something I've really believed in. Certainly with my young students,  you know, you can't really fail. The only way you can fail is not to try. So don't hold back, don't spend so long overthinking a problem that you don't commit. Push yourself to commit, wake up the next morning, does it still feel right? Have you had any self-doubts overnight?  Incorporate those self-doubts, but move forwards. And learn by doing. But I'm a big believer in reading and making sure that, you know, at any one time you've done the best you can to be at the point to make the decision. So you don't make it quickly and cheaply,  you put the effort in, but then when you get to that point, just make it. 