 Hello, I am Sadik. Zurich Instruments entered the quantum computing market five years ago. We were the first to integrate a lock-in amplifier with an arbitrary waveform generator, which is a self-contained solution for single-qubit characterization, control and readout. And man has the world changed since then. The interest for quantum computing has gone through the roof. Today we are part of several large-scale projects with the ambition of making an universal quantum computing a reality. Looking at the entire quantum stack, Zurich Instruments contributes with a key component: the classical system control software and hardware, that links the algorithms to the quantum devices. With the launch of two new products we now offer the world's first commercial Quantum Computing Control System. It consists of: The PQSC for synchronization and real-time system control, the LabOne software, that connects to the higher levels of the quantum stack, the UHFQA for qubit readout, and the HDAWG for qubit control. Let me briefly walk you through its main features. Controlling up to 100 qubits requires a high level of system integration. This is taken care of by the new PQSC, the Programmable Quantum System Controller. The PQSC synchronizes and controls up to 18 instruments. Its numerous auxilary I/Os can be used to connect to 3rd party instruments. The complexity of sub-nanosecond synchronization and real-time communication is taken over by the PQSC. The PQSC also is the layer layer where novel real-time control methods can be implemented - its FPGA is user-programmable for custom low latency control. To guarantee an effective connection between the high-level quantum algorithm and the analog signals controlling the quantum hardware, good software architecture is key. Our LabOne software works across all our instruments and provides a concise and easy-to-use GUI as well as APIs for Python, Matlab and other languages, with particular support in Labber, QCoDes and similar software. The new UHFQA quantum analyzer can read out 10 qubits simultaneously in a frequency-multiplexed fashion. It is the first instrument of its kind. With two signal outputs it generates the IQ readout pulses and the two signal inputs acquire the response. We added fast and powerful signal processing to ensure state-of-the-art fidelity and crosstalk suppression. Qubit initialization and control is taken care of by the HDAWG, the high density arbitrary waveform generator for baseband signal generation. The HDAWG has up to 8 channels, each equipped with two marker bits and trigger input for ultralow-latency feedback and branching. Its advanced sequencing capabilities are designed to handle the long pulse patterns across the many channels required to operate a quantum processor. The modular design allows you to add more channels over time while the systems approach makes for seamless integration where the result is more than the sum of its parts. This protects the future value of your investment. I hope I have inspired many questions. Please contact us, start the conversation today. Thank you for watching. 