 What I wanna talk about is - what was said a couple of times today - that quantum mechanics is difficult. "I don't understand quantum mechanics" "Quantum mechanics is very hard" What I wanna talk about is: what's hard? What's the hard thing about quantum mechanics? I mean - everything's hard! If - you know - sperm and an egg come together, and a baby comes out. That's pretty hard to understand. But, somehow, we don't walk around obstetrics hospitals and say "Oh, it is so hard to understand how this happens" So, that, we have gotten used to. Although, it is impossible to understand. It's impossible to understand how you can take a neuron and a neuron and another neuron, and put them together. And, all of the sudden, you get consciousness That's very hard to understand. But, somehow, quantum mechanics has this reputation that goes even beyond that. Maybe I can just say, for a minute, what it is that makes it hard about quantum mechanics And, it is this idea that something doesn't have a state until it is measured You have probably - I think just even being anywhere in global world culture - you have probably heard this idea that something doesn't have a state until it is measured. And, you say: "Okay, fine - something is indeterminate" and I don't mean that it is indeterminate. I mean that it doesn't have a state. Usually, indeterminate means "you don't know it". But, this is something different. I wanna give you an example of what I mean by indeterminate. Then I will tell you about topological - and then, we will be done. By then, they will have gotten this fixed and finished. If you have a microwave oven in your house, or in your laboratory - as we do - and you look in it. It's okay, you can look through the little holes in the grid. You know what - I don't need it anymore! I don't need it anymore, I am gonna tell you the story that I am gonna tell you. A better story, anyway. You look in the microwave oven Forget this! You look in the microwave oven and you can't see anything. You can see your food going around. But, you can't see the microwaves. And, they are pretty powerful - they are powerful enough to cook your food. But, you can't see them. Now, you can see visible light and the reason you can see visible light is because the way that the light interacts with your eye is that all of the energy from a photon has to deposit all of its energy onto one retinal cell and the energy of a microwave isn't enough to make the cell fire, so you can't see the microwaves But, you can see the visible light. So far so good? Okay, good. Now - go out at night and look at the star in the sky that is all you need to do to in order to see all the weirdness of quantum mechanics and I literally mean all of the weirdness of quantum mechanics. Just look at a star. Why? Because the light from the star is coming from atoms inside the star that give off radiation. And, the radiation that comes out from the star is going in all different directions at the same time. Now, remember - I said that the direction or the state - what direction the light is going - is indeterminate and that was the hard part. So, don't think of the light coming out of the star like a shower head that is spraying light in all different directions. Think that the light that is coming out of the stars is indeterminate - what direction it's coming isn't known yet. But, then - I stick my eye in front of the light and one photon of light goes into my eye and I see it! And, all of the sudden, that light is determined; where it is. Now, why should that bother you? Why is that hard to understand? It's hard to understand because another possibility was that the light came out of the star and went the other way, away from the earth in the opposite direction. That was a possibility until it hit my eye and as soon as it hit my eye, suddenly, all the other possibilities became impossible. But, someone in my eye had to shout out, all the way across the universe: "You can't be there anymore" "That location is now no longer possible" "It's in his eye" Now, you can ask - what if I hadn't put my eye there? Well, then, there would still be a possibility that should be on the other side of the universe. How long did it take for the message to get from the shouter that says that it's impossible over to the other side of the star on the other side of the galaxy going out the other direction. How long did that take? Now, Einstein would tell you that you can't send messages faster than the speed of light but we are talking about light. The answer is the information gets out there instantaneously. All the way over there instantaneously that photon can't be there Don't like it? That's okay; maybe you don't like where babies come from. But you don't have a choice - that's the way it works. Now, why are we here today and why is Microsoft concerned with these beautiful, fantastic crazy-sounding ideas from quantum mechanics? Because if you had a chip and you had a transistor on a chip, and it was ON or it was OFF. When it was ON, it let electricity flow and when it was OFF, it didn't let electricity flow. And, the electricity flow to another chip on the other side and that one was ON or OFF and let the electricity go to the other side. As soon as it measures the state of this transistor, just like the photon on the far side of the star, it would determine whether or not that transistor over on the other side of the chip was ON or OFF, when I measure this transistor being ON or OFF. And, how long will it take for the information to get from the measurement of this transistor to that one being determined? Instantaneously. This measurement would set that transistor and that's possible, but it's never been built and that's why Microsoft is here. Because you can make a chip in which the laws of physics, a 100 years old and indisputable, show up on a chip. Now - topological was in my title. Topological is written on the squares out there - what's that all about? The problem is that this measurement business of making things real sometimes happens when you don't want it to happen. Anything can measure - you don't need a conscious mind to do the measurement. Anything that accidentally touches that transistor will crash it, and determine its position and the next position and the next position. Sometimes you don't want that to happen and you have to prevent it from happening. Enter topology. What is topology? Topology is the study - we have field's medal winning topologists in the audience - and I am gonna explain what topology is. It's the study of shapes that don't care if they are distorted a little bit but have some character of their shape. I think the best example that I can give and it is the title of my presentation but, since I am not going through my slides, I am just gonna show you with my belt. It's the easiest way to do it. If I have a loop like this in my belt there's no twists in that belt. That's the title of my presentation. If I twist this one time like this and put my belt back together - if you have ever done this when you putting your belt on in the morning and it gets a twist in it. You can't get the twist out. The twist is stuck, if this thing comes all the way back around. I can even count how many twists it is and that information can't get out of my belt. It's stuck. It's recorded in this thing and it can't be removed, but there's something else that's interesting about the twist in my belt, which is there's nowhere on my belt, where I can look and see whether it's twisted. I can't see the twists from anything, which means that quantum mechanical measurement that crashes the transistor also can't see whether there's a twist in the belt. If you could store the information in a way in which there are twists. Then, you can prevent accidental measurement. That's the topological quantum states that is the basis of the machines that we are trying to built. We are trying to put twists in. Now, the thing that make this interesting is, in the original Bohr model of 1913, when he described the orbitals of atoms and the transitions in between them, so that you could see what colour light was. You could ask how did those orbits get to be this specific size that they were and the answer is: each orbit has a twist in it. Each orbit has the same number of twists of the electron that goes around in the circle. So, in a way, the Bohr orbits themselves all the way from 1913 were topologically encoded so that they would stay fixed, so that they couldn't vary and that the light coming out of atoms were the same. So, it's built in deeply to the history and the understanding of quantum physics that you could encode things in ways that you can't see when you look at any one part of it. If you could make a machine in which the transistors not only encode the information that lets the measurement take place instantaneously. But, that the information is encoded topologically in the twists of something, which is extended throughout the system. You can store the information, immune from measurement. That's what Peter Krogstrup is trying to do in those machines over there. Now, if we could do it, who cares? I mean it would be a fantastic revolution to be able to make a quantum system on a chip that was as immune to decoherence as the orbitals of Bohr's atom. But, what's critically important is that we already know from theoretical mathematics and theoretical physics, that if you could build a machine like that; the problems that cannot be solved, using today's computers - what do I mean by cannot be solved? That means using the fastest known algorithms of these computers, they will still take the age of the universe in order to solve these problems. Let's call that the definition of cannot be solved. What's an example of a problem that can't be solved? Well, how to design a drug that binds to a site in your body. It's too complicated of a problem. It is known that if we have the algorithms that use these quantum mechanical principles, then we can solve those problems. It's just that the machines don't exist. So, you will have to come back in a few years, after Peter has had a wack at it for a while, to see whether we have been able to encode information in twists so that it can't be measured, so that we can build a chip, in which the simultaneous states become determined so that the chip can act like the light that we see every day, where the observation makes it real, only when you want to. 