The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations.The Company also believes that COVID-19 has forced fundamental changes in businesses and communities that are aligned with the Company's edge-to-cloud platform delivered as-a-service strategy. Navigating through the pandemic and planning for a post-COVID world have increased customers' needs for as-a-service offerings, secure connectivity, remote work capabilities and analytics to unlock insights from data. Our solutions are aligned to these needs, and we see opportunity to help our customers drive digital transformations as they continue to adapt to operate in a new world.We have prioritized protecting the health and safety of our team members, supporting the global communities in which we live and work and supporting our customers and partners to help them adjust to new and emerging needs. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure the safety of our employees, we implemented a global work-from-home policy until further notice that applies to a significant majority of our employees, with the exception of those performing essential activities. In October 2020, in certain countries, we introduced a new hybrid model of work to our workforce called Edge-to-Office. Depending on role classification, work will now primarily be done at the edge (outside of the office), or at HPE sites. HPE sites will be used for collaborations, social connections, and other work, as needed for all roles. The implementation of Edge-to-Office will occur in a phased-approach across the Company and as local regulations allow. We have also made additional education and support resources and personal protective supplies available to team members. In the event of a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 among our team members and contractors, we have implemented a confidential reporting process to trace and notify close contacts—including third parties—that maintains the anonymity of all involved.In the third quarter of fiscal 2020 we announced new return-to-work solutions to help customers accelerate business recovery and reopening plans. The solutions combine expertise from HPE operational services for a fast, seamless transition, with HPE servers for the edge, Aruba AI-powered network infrastructure, and technologies from HPE's rich ecosystem of partners. Customers that have implemented these solutions include large international airports, global food processing and packaging plants, retail stores, and corporate offices.While we continue to mitigate the impact on our business and operations to address the near-term uncertainty, in fiscal 2020 we took a number of actions to ensure HPE is well positioned to emerge stronger, more agile and digitally enabled for a post-COVID-19 world. •On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act") was enacted into law. The CARES Act, among other things, provides tax relief to businesses, including the deferral of certain payroll taxes, relief for retaining employees, and other income tax provisions. In addition to the CARES Act, governments around the world also enacted comparable legislation to address COVID-19 economic impacts. Based on the relief provided by this legislation, in fiscal 2020 we deferred $92 million of payroll taxes which, the Company will pay, at least partially or in full, prior to the end of fiscal 2021.•On April 6, 2020, we announced that we suspended purchases under our share repurchase program.32Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)•In April 2020, we issued $2.25 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured Senior Notes to enhance our liquidity and strengthen our capital. Additionally, in July 2020, we issued $1.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured Senior Notes. The net proceeds from July offerings were used primarily for the redemption in August 2020 of the $3.0 billion outstanding principal amount of the 3.6% unsecured Senior Notes that were originally due in October 2020.•On May 19, 2020, the Board of Directors of HPE (the "Board") approved a cost optimization and prioritization plan.   We expect that this plan will be implemented through fiscal 2023 and estimate that it will include gross savings of at least $1.0 billion as a result of changes to our workforce, business model and business process, with this plan being expected to deliver annualized net run-rate savings of at least $800 million by the end of fiscal 2023, in both cases relative to our fiscal 2019 exit. In order to achieve this level of cost savings, we estimate related cash funding payments of $1.3 billion over the next three years of which approximately $0.7 billion will relate to labor restructuring, $0.5 billion will relate to non-labor restructuring and $0.1 billion will relate to IT investments and design and execution charges. For further details of the plan see the Other section of this discussion. •On May 19, 2020, the Board approved cost containment measures including temporary base salary adjustments or unpaid leave for certain employees beginning July 1, 2020, along with restrictions on external hiring and salary increases. Effective November 1, 2020, the aforementioned cost containment measures were returned to their original levels prior to the change. •During fiscal 2020, we paid a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share to our shareholders. On December 1, 2020 we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share, payable on or about January 6, 2021, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 9, 2020. Other We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges include dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the market shift of workloads to cloud-related IT infrastructure business models, emergence of software-defined architectures and converged infrastructure functionality and growth in IT consumption models. Certain of our legacy hardware server and storage businesses face challenges as customers migrate to cloud-based offerings and reduce their purchases of hardware products. Therefore, the demand environment for traditional server and storage products is challenging and lower traditional compute and storage unit volume is impacting support attach opportunities within the associated services organization.  Another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions, our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. We intend to provide our customers with a choice between traditional consumption models or subscription-based, pay-per-use and as-a-Service offerings across out entire portfolio of HPE products and services.      To be successful in overcoming these challenges, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by successfully transitioning to our as-a-Service model, further improving our cost structure, aligning sales coverage with our strategic goals, improving channel execution, and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, which includes accelerating growth in the Intelligent Edge and High Performance Compute businesses and delivering profitable growth across each of our business segments. We need to continue to pursue new product innovation that builds on our existing capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking, which will keep us aligned with market demand, industry trends and the needs of our customers and partners. In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies. 33Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)The following transformation programs were launched in response to the aforementioned challenges:Cost Optimization and Prioritization PlanDuring the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we launched a cost optimization and prioritization plan which focuses on realigning our workforce to areas of growth, including a new hybrid workforce model call Edge-to-Office, real estate strategies and simplifying and evolving our product portfolio strategy. The implementation period for the cost optimization and prioritization plan is through fiscal 2023. During this implementation period, we expect to incur transformation costs predominantly related to labor restructuring, non-labor restructuring, IT investments and design and execution charges.HPE NextDuring the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we launched an initiative called HPE Next to put in place a purpose-built company designed to compete and win in the markets where we participate. Through this program, we are simplifying our operating model, streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems to improve our execution. The implementation period for HPE Next is now extended to fiscal 2023. During the remaining implementation period we expect to incur transformation charges predominantly related to IT transformation costs for streamlining, upgrading and simplifying back-end operations, and real estate initiatives. These costs will be partially offset by gains from real estate sales.For additional details on these Transformation Programs, see Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference.For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could impact our operating results, and risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to COVID-19, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part 1, which is incorporated herein by reference.The following Overview, Results of Operations and Liquidity discussions and analysis compare fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2019 to fiscal 2018, unless otherwise noted. The Capital Resources and Contractual and Other Obligations discussions present information as of October 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted. OVERVIEWWe are a global technology leader focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers.We organize our business into seven segments for financial reporting purposes: Compute, High Performance Compute & Mission Critical Systems (HPC & MCS), Storage, Advisory and Professional Services (A & PS), Intelligent Edge, Financial Services ("FS") and Corporate Investments. The following provides an overview of our key financial metrics by segment for fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019:34Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)HPEConsolidatedComputeHPC & MCSStorageA & PSIntelligent EdgeFinancial ServicesCorporateInvestmentsDollars in millions, except for per share amountsNet revenue(1)$26,982 $12,215 $3,036 $4,681 $951 $2,855 $3,352 $490 Year-over-year change %(7.4)%(10.5)%4.3 %(9.7)%(6.0)%(2.0)%(6.4)%(3.4)%Earnings (loss) from operations (2)$(329)$893 $237 $719 $(5)$281 $278 $(100)Earnings (loss) from operations as a % of net revenue(1.2)%7.3 %7.8 %15.4 %(0.5)%9.8 %8.3 %(20.4)%Year-over-year change percentage points(5.6)pts(4.1)pts(3.2)pts(2.4)pts4.8 pts4.3 pts(0.2)pts0.9 ptsNet loss$(322)Diluted net loss per share$(0.25)Supplemental Non-GAAP information:Non-GAAP earnings from operations$2,008 Non-GAAP earnings from operations as a % of net revenue7.4 %Non-GAAP net earnings$1,765 Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share$1.35 (1)HPE consolidated net revenue excludes intersegment net revenue.(2)Segment earnings from operations exclude certain unallocated corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense related to corporate and certain global functions, amortization of capitalized initial direct costs, transformation costs, amortization of intangible assets, acquisition, dispositions and other related charges, impairment of goodwill and disaster (recovery) charges. Net revenue decreased by $2.2 billion, or 7.4% (decreased 6.4% on a constant currency basis), in fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.  During fiscal 2020, we experienced a net revenue decline due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations and the worldwide demand environment. The impact of COVID-19 and resulting lockdown restrictions was felt across each of our business segments and included challenges such as disruptions to our supply chain process with processing order fulfillment, due in part to related commodity constraints, delays with meeting customer acceptance milestones and our ability to perform and complete on-site installations. The pandemic and related restrictions also contributed to manufacturing capacity constraints during the first half of fiscal 2020, which along with the consolidation of certain locations in North America, increased order backlog. Although we significantly improved our operational and supply chain execution in the second half of fiscal 2020, our financial results continued to be impacted by the weak worldwide demand environment resulting from the pandemic related restrictions. Given the comprehensive impact of the pandemic and to avoid repetition, the following discussion of the financial performance of each segment in fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 will focus on the other leading factors contributing to their performance.  From a segment perspective, the net revenue decrease in fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019, was primarily led by declines in Compute, Storage, and Financial Services, partially offset by a net revenue increase in HPC & MCS. The net revenue decline in Compute was due to competitive pricing pressures and manufacturing capacity constraints in North America. Storage net revenue was impacted by manufacturing capacity constraints in North America and lower revenue from the expiration of a one-time legacy contract. Financial Services net revenue was impacted due to a decrease in rental revenue due to 35Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)lower average operating lease assets, lower lease equipment buyout revenue and unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations.  HPC & MCS experienced a net revenue increase due to the addition of revenue from the acquisition of Cray Inc. ("Cray").    Our gross profit margin was 31.4% ($8.5 billion) and 32.6% ($9.5 billion) for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. The 1.2 percentage point decrease to the gross profit margin was primarily driven by the combination of competitive pricing pressures, higher supply chain costs resulting from the impact of COVID-19, unfavorable currency fluctuations and the scale of the net revenue decline, partially offset by our overall shift to higher-margin products and services along with lower variable compensation expense. Our operating profit margin was (1.2)% and 4.4% for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively, representing a decrease of 5.6 percentage points. The decrease was due to an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue coupled with a decrease in the gross profit margin. The increase in operating expenses was due primarily to the goodwill impairment charge impacting our HPC & MCS segment in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, and higher transformation costs partially offset by the prior-year period containing higher acquisition, disposition and other related charges resulting from an arbitration settlement and cost containment measures. As of October 31, 2020, cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $4.6 billion, representing an increase of approximately $0.5 billion from the October 31, 2019 balance of $4.1 billion. The increase was due primarily to the following: cash provided by operating activities of $2.2 billion, net proceeds from debt issuance net of repayments of $1.9 billion, partially offset by investments in property, plant and equipment, net of sales proceeds of $1.7 billion, cash payments related to dividends and share repurchases of $1.0 billion and business acquisition activity of $0.9 billion.36Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)The following table provides reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures for fiscal 2020:Fiscal year ended October 31, 2020Diluted net earnings per shareIn millionsGAAP net earnings (loss)$(322)$(0.25)Non-GAAP adjustments:Amortization of initial direct costs10 0.01 Amortization of intangible assets379 0.29 Impairment of goodwill865 0.67 Transformation costs950 0.74 Disaster charges26 0.02 Acquisition, disposition and other related charges107 0.08 Tax indemnification adjustments101 0.08 Non-service net periodic benefit credit(136)(0.11)Earnings from equity interests(1)145 0.11 Adjustments for taxes(360)(0.29)Non-GAAP net earnings $1,765 $1.35 GAAP earnings (loss) from operations$(329)Non-GAAP adjustments:Amortization of initial direct costs10 Amortization of intangible assets379 Impairment of goodwill865 Transformation costs950 Disaster charges26 Acquisition, disposition and other related charges107 Non-GAAP earnings from operations$2,008 GAAP operating profit margin(1.2)%Non-GAAP adjustments8.6 %Non-GAAP operating profit margin7.4 %GAAP Net revenue$26,982 GAAP Cost of sales18,513 GAAP gross profit$8,469 Non-GAAP adjustmentsAmortization of initial direct costs$10 Acquisition, disposition and other related charges(2)27 Non-GAAP gross profit$8,506 GAAP gross profit margin31.4 %Non-GAAP adjustments0.1 %Non-GAAP gross profit margin31.5 %(1) Represents the amortization of basis difference adjustments related to the H3C divestiture. (2) Represent charges related to a non-cash inventory fair value adjustment in connection with the acquisition of Cray, which was included in Cost of Sales. 37Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)Non-GAAP financial measuresThe non-GAAP financial measures presented are net revenue on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue), non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by management for purposes of evaluating our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as evaluating our performance relative to our competitors. These non-GAAP financial measures are not computed in accordance with, or as an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to net revenue on a constant currency basis is net revenue. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit is gross profit. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit margin is gross profit margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP earnings from operations is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) is operating profit margin (Earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue). The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. Net revenue on a constant currency basis assumes no change in the foreign exchange rate from the prior-year period. Non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross profit margin is defined to exclude charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs and certain acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Non-GAAP earnings from operations and non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) consist of earnings from operations excluding any charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges, and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Non-GAAP net earnings and Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges, as well as an adjustment to tax indemnification adjustments, non-service net periodic benefit credit, earnings from equity interests, certain income tax valuation allowances and separation taxes, the impact of U.S. tax reform, structural tax rate and excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefits associated with each non-GAAP item. We believe that excluding the items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance in relation to the operating results of our segments. Management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results, and excluding them facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance in comparison to our peers. The excluded items can be inconsistent in amount and frequency and/or not reflective of the operational performance of the business.   These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are that they can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measures, they may be calculated differently by other companies and may not reflect the full economic effect of the loss in value of certain assets.  We compensate for these limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only as a supplement. We also provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure. We believe that providing net revenue on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share in addition to the related GAAP measures provides greater transparency to the information used in our financial and operational decision making and allows the reader of our Consolidated Financial Statements to see our financial results "through the eyes" of management.38Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESGeneralOur Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), which requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources, including the economic considerations related to the impact that the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19")  could have on our significant accounting estimates. Management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of HPE's Board of Directors. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.A summary of significant accounting policies is included in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which is incorporated herein by reference. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, if different estimates reasonably could have been used, or if changes in the estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.Revenue RecognitionGeneralWe account for a contract with a customer when both parties have provided written approval and are committed to perform, each party's rights including payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collection of consideration is probable. We enter into contracts with customers that may include combinations of products and services, resulting in arrangements containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. We determine whether each product or service is distinct in order to identify the performance obligations in the contract and allocate the contract transaction price among the distinct performance obligations. Arrangements are distinct based on whether the customer can benefit from the product or service on its own or together with other resources that are readily available and whether the commitment to transfer the product or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other obligations in the contract. We classify our hardware, perpetual software licenses, and software-as-a-service ("SaaS") as distinct performance obligations. Term software licenses represent multiple obligations, which include software licenses and software maintenance. In transactions where we deliver hardware or software, we are typically the principal and record revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis.The majority of our revenue is derived from sales of product and the associated support and maintenance which is recognized when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled, in exchange for those products or services. Variable consideration offered in contracts with customers, partners and distributors may include rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs. Variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available and recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.Transfer of control occurs once the customer has the contractual right to use the product, generally upon shipment or once delivery and risk of loss has transferred to the customer. Transfer of control can also occur over time for maintenance and services as the customer receives the benefit over the contract term. Our hardware and perpetual software licenses are distinct performance obligations where revenue is recognized upfront upon transfer of control. Term software licenses include multiple performance obligations where the term licenses are recognized upfront upon transfer of control, with the associated software maintenance revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as services and software updates are provided. SaaS 39Table of ContentsHEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIESManagement's Discussion and Analysis ofFinancial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)arrangements have one distinct performance obligation which is satisfied over time with revenue recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer consumes the services. On our product sales, we record consideration from shipping and handling on a gross basis within net product sales. Revenue is recorded net of any associated sales taxes.Significant JudgmentsWe allocate the transaction price for the contract among the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. The standalone selling price ("SSP") is the price at which an entity would sell a promised product or service separately to a customer. We establish SSP for most of our products and services based on the observable price of the products or services when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. When the SSP is not directly observable, we estimate SSP based on management judgment by considering available data such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs. We establish SSP ranges for our products and services and reassesses them periodically.Judgment is applied in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Variable consideration may include various rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs that are offered to customers, partners and distributors. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable.RestructuringWe have engaged in restructuring actions which require management to estimate the timing and amount of severance and other employee separation costs for workforce reduction and enhanced early retirement programs, the fair value of assets made redundant or obsolete, and the value of lease and contract cancellation and other exit costs. We accrue for severance and other employee separation costs under these actions when it is probable that benefits will be paid and the amount is reasonably estimable. The rates used in determining severance accruals are based on existing plans, historical experiences and negotiated settlements. For a full description of our restructuring actions, refer to our discussions of restructuring in "Results of Operations" below and in Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Retirement and Post-Retirement BenefitsOur pension and other post-retirement benefit cos