 [MUSIC]  Tell me a little bit about the value for your team to be partnering with Microsoft at our booth and showcasing your solution.  Okay. Actually we've been working with Microsoft for a long time since we are a Microsoft program for embedded Windows. In this ecosystem, we are doing like IoT Azure that we've been working on with IoT Azure team. About two years ago, we started this new team, we call IoT Division. We started with working with software, also the hardware, and we have deployed this solution in Taipei City, also in the National University of Taipei.  What types of customers or what types of partnerships that you're looking to form this week as you're here at COMPUTEX?  Okay. We're actually looking for a partner that we can do some innovative solution for them, and also helping them as [inaudible] , and also to deploy to worldwide customer. So eventually, we were helping them [inaudible] , also not only software, also the hardware.  Can you tell me what your thoughts are on how you see the IoT ecosystem growing or evolving in the next three to five years, and how you think AAEONs solution here will help support that growing demand?  Okay. Actually, three years ago we started [inaudible] this business with Microsoft. We deep dive into the smart city sector. So imagine, we were talking about the millions of sensor, also the data collected from these sensor by artificial intelligent, also called machine learning. So we've been thinking about how we can deploy this solution and how the future will look like, and how are we going to get there.  Can you tell us a little bit about how Microsoft is simplifying IoT for our partners, for our customers, and more or less how you think Microsoft Azure and our products and services are helping simplify the development of your solution?  Actually, if you work with IoT, you have to think about the device security and the easiest thing is, you don't need to consider about the security of the device because Microsoft, the Azure IoT will help you with that. Three years ago, we start with the hardware and software, and the firmware is the most important. So IoT Hub turned out to be the best solution.  Tell us a little bit about what you have here this week and tell the customers why they should be excited about the AAEON solution.  We demonstrate there the CMS, we call the Central Management System we built for the Taipei City Government, and all the street lights connected with this controller. There's about 160,000 lights in the Taipei City. So easier thing to do is, you have the one [inaudible] all the lights in the city. So actually, we can pull in all the information, like air quality, also the civilian information on one [inaudible]. This is another example we do for the Taipei City. There's about 16 location in Taipei City, and this is a interface that actually become want to interact with the customer, with the community, and also provide them the right information for the city. [MUSIC] 