 The ZF IoT platform is an open scalable platform. It's cloud-based, we develop it to connect different kind of assets to the platform like vehicles and our products. On this platform we provide several applications and solutions to give our customers and partners access to the data and provide some benefits to them. Microsoft is our partner for the cloud based platform. So the whole platform is based on Azure and we develop our part on this platform. One of the most important applications is the dashboard. The dashboard provides you with an overview of the assets. You see the position of the vehicle, you see the speed of the vehicle, you see the basic diagnostic information on it. The dashboard is available since last year. We have also basic diagnostics available on this application for some of our ZF products like TaXon and EcoLife. The other applications that we have are updates over-the-air for our own products, so for the connectivity unit which we see here in the background. deTAGtive is an application, which covers logistics and production issues. With the logistic deTAGtive we can track all assets inside our factory and also with partners. With the call button we improve production. When the user presses the buttom, it goes directly to our IoT platform. This informations are provided to other platforms to improve some processes.inf The benefit of such a platform is that it's open and independent. As mentioned, you can connect vehicles, you can connect our ZF products but you are also able to connect other products to the platform. The other big benefit is: Our customers and partners can develop their own application on this platform. They can use our infrastructure, our signals and make their own applications for their needs. The goal of the IoT platform are updates over-the-air for all ZF products. That is very important for us. That we have extended diagnostics for all ZF products ready is also important. And of course to get more vehicles and more assets connected to it. 