 The variables page contains a list of all variables and variables settings. To display variables choose desired Connection. In this example is used MQTT connection. We did not add any variables, so the variable list is empty. To add variables click on "Add MQTT variable" button. Add variables popup is shown. Type desired values and click on the "Save" button. All selected variables are added to the variables table. To delete a variable, select variable and click the "Delete" button. To delete all variables, click "Delete All Variables". Search filter will filter variables list by any column, search by the property is also available. By clicking on the desired variable at the right side appears variable window in which we can see options for the selected variable. Now we will set attributes for one real and one bool variable. For the first variable, we will choose "Boolean" for type. "Unit group", "Read unit" and "Interface unit" are related to measuring units and will be explained with measuring units. If we want to log the desired variable check the "Loggable" checkbox. We can log variable on every change "On Change" checkbox or on some of the predefined time interval "Log interval" drop-down list-box. We can assign a trend name. The trend name for the desired variable will be visible on trend legend. When we set variable attributes to desired values, click the "Save" button. Now we will set attributes for the "Real" variable. We will choose "Real" for type. Check "Loggable" check-box, and choose "10 minutes" for "Log interval". For "Multiplier" insert 0.1 that means that value will be multiplied with 0.1 Check "Event" check-box. Set bottom and top values, bottom and top text. This text will be displayed in the "Event view" component. To set alarm limits check "Alarm" check-box. Set alarm limits for the bottom and top value. Set desired text which will be displayed in the "Alarm View" component when alarm limits are reached. Insert "Trend name" which will be displayed in trend legend. Click the "Save" button to save previously assigned attribute values. Under connection options are variable filter options. "Is Alarm", filter all variables which have assigned alarm limits values. "Is Event", filter all variables which have assigned event limits values. "Is Loggable", filter all variables which have assigned log interval or on change event. User can combine these options. Also, the user can use the search filter with these options. To define internal variables, select internal from drop-down menu Connection. Add variables is available by click on the "Add internal variable" button. Add internal variable popup is shown. Type desired values and click on the "Save" button. Same as for MQTT variables, user can set internal variables attributes to desired values. Click the "Save" button to save assigned attributes values. User can also filter only internal variables. 