 [MUSIC]  So at its most basic sense, it's a situational awareness platform that enables people or devices to raise alerts, or potential to say, serious situations to a central platform to allow operators or authorities who actually enact on that alert. So as an example, it could be a fire in a school or something like that. We could have cameras detecting a fire, you'd actually have panic buttons will appear where if you press a button. All those alerts should get centralized in a platform where operators can see contextually where that alert was risen from. We also can implement cameras for people to interrogate and see what is going on. From that, we can then send out messages to a targeted large number of people to enable them to make, I guess, a safe passage away from the event, say if it was a fire. So both together, the product has both a administration portal and also a consumer application. Security is always front of mind, of course, but the great thing with Azure and the platform there, a lot of it does come in-built in their platform. So we use the latest protocols and security certificates to ensure that both people on the ground using the consumer application, those on the web is totally secure in the way that they interact with the platform and share information. The one service that comes to mind that has really changed the landscape in terms of the development time, what we can bring to market a lot quicker is definitely IoT Central. That's a service that's been around for while but was recently released in Australia. This is a great platform where we can really shorten the time to develop IoT solutions for a number of our customers. We're going to be dealing with any like humidity sensors, temperature sensors, cameras. We're able to integrate these very quickly and bringing into the central platform being IoT Central in a way that's very secure and very easy to manage as well. One of the great parts of these services that comes with its own SaaS platform. So very easily you have customers that can go in, start managing devices, seeing telemetries that comes through, start setting alerts, and start integrating with a lot of their systems that actually might already be using such as Dynamics. [MUSIC] 