 [MUSIC]  We're here at IoT in Action, Santa Clara, and I'm here with Joe from Clovity. What's the value for your team being here interacting with industry experts, customers, and so forth?  This is actually my first IoT in Action, but it's been a great experience so far. I would say in the four hours I've been here so far, it's proved it's worth times 10. Even last year, our CEO is here presenting, I think Buarno was here too and some of the partnerships that we've formed like with Fathym, with Advantech, we actually had those meetings at IoT in Action. A year later, we've formed complete bundled solutions with those companies. So it's been good.  Tell us a little bit about how IoT in Action can serve as a platform to bring these partnerships together and what that means for your company's individually and as a whole?  Yeah. I think being here, we already have something in common. We're interested in IoT, we're partnering with Microsoft. So it's a chance for us to bring our unique solutions to a venue like this and see how they might pair up together. So that's what we've done with Fathym and with Advantech. Also with Arrow is partner our IoT solutions with the Azure IoT Cloud and put something together that fits into this specific verticals.  Tell us a little bit about the solution that you have. I know your teams are participating here in the expo today. So tell us a little bit about that solution, how it works, what's the problem it solves, and plans for deployment.  Yeah. So we're nestled right in between the Fathym and the Advantech booth which is pretty appropriate because we're partnering with Fathym to connect their weather data for road conditions and things like that with our CSensorNet which is our IoT software platform. Then we use the Advantech hardware to do the Edge computing. So we're that software middleware that brings all of those pieces together, the APIs that are coming from the weather data, the Edge computing that's done on the Advantech devices, and all of the analytic work as is done in the CSensorNet platform.  Well, how has Clovity built on top of the Microsoft Azure platform, and how does that enable your team to be more confident in building those solutions and bringing value to your customers?  So we've been a Microsoft partner, Azure partner for two years now. I would say since I've been a part of Clovity, 90 percent of our integration projects have been with customers who are using Azure. So where we've become so familiar with integrating with data that's already in the Azure Cloud, and it's really helped us build these relationships that we're talking about here. Specifically, our partnership with Arrow, they're very interested right now in the Microsoft relationship and how we can help market Azure to their customers. So our ability to integrate with that and our familiarity with it has been super helpful.  Tell me a little bit about why you think it's so important for security and developing IoT solutions to be intertwined. I know it's a really hot topic but nowadays with security, I wanted to hear your thoughts on that and help us understand the importance of security in IoT.  Yeah. Security and IoT even, after all the visibility that has gotten in recent years, is still often overlooked when you're building a connected IoT product. My background I came from IoT development and certification on the hardware side where a lot of times folks will build a product without any security in mind, which is the idea that they want to get that product to market. Then oftentimes they'll have maybe 10,000 or 20,000 widgets in the field before they discovered there was a security issue. It's the same thing on the software side. We've realized the importance of not only partnering with hardware providers who value security, but then on the integration side, we have partners like Microsoft, other partners who specialize in cybersecurity. That makes sure when we put an end-to-end solution together from the hardware piece to the Cloud to the end solution that there's not going to be any vulnerabilities. But it is definitely something that I think still people don't probably consider as much as they should.  One of the main things that we know for sure is how dynamically the landscape of IoT changes year over year. So I wanted to get your thoughts on how you see IoT evolving in the next 3-5 years, I know there's a lot of buzz around machine learning and AI but also using that ethically. What are your thoughts on how IoT is evolving in the next three to five years and how do you see Clovity solution driving impact in the growth of that?  Yeah. I see a lot of IoT solutions. So I know we're talking about 5G, we're talking about AI, and all of these things that are the buzz words today. But I feel like just what's happening now is the things that we were talking about three or four years ago are finally starting to come to fruition. So it's interesting to see we're doing a lot of work in smart cities, we're doing a lot of work in industrial IoT. These are things that people were talking about doing three or four or five years ago that now they're actually implementing. These were ideas then, and now we're implementing it today. So I think it's exciting to think about a lot of the ideas we're talking about today, like 5G, there's minimal deployments in select cities right now, it's very much not even a reality yet. But the things that we're talking about doing with autonomous vehicles, remote health care, the things that you can do with next to no latency with 5G, those are things that three, four, or five years from now will actually be coming to fruition. So I'm excited to not only implement today what is going on that we were talking about a few years ago, but five years from now, it's going to be pretty cool to see what Clovity is doing in the realm of AI or 5G or remote health care application. It's exciting.  If you could potentially reach out to the customers that are watching this video and tell them why they should leverage your solution or work with Clovity, what would that response be?  I would say if you're working on a project that has to do with IoT in specific verticals, whether it's smart city, industrial IoT, retail, and you have a custom project that needs integration of systems, come talk to us. We've already got many of the templates created. We already have many of the partners in place like I mentioned Fathym, Advantech, Arrow, other hardware partners that we work with, and our team of engineers will make it happen in a very, very quick turnaround. [MUSIC] 