 Good morning ladies and gentlemen. My name is Slawomir Wolf, I'm the CEO of AVSystem. I will try to be time efficient, I hope you had a great morning today. Today I will try to share some information and our views, basically, on what you should do if you want to build scalable IoT services. A few words about our company. Basically, we are committed to device management services. AVSystem is a Polish company. We're based in Cracow, Poland, in Central Europe. We have offices around the world, in the US we have our office in Boston. My colleague, Will Yan, is the President of Americas. Will, maybe you can stand up? If you'd like to talk to Will, as I said, we have a stand very close to us. We have 150 people in the company, more than 100 customers. Acting globally, we've been on the market 13 years. As I said we are specialized and expertized in device management solutions. Over those 13 years, we engaged with many Tier-1 telco customers. Among our customers we have Telefonica, Claro - America Movil, we have Vodafone, T-Mobile, as well as customers in the US. The largest customer in the US, basically, of AVSystem is AT&T. We deliver to AT&T basically two products which are pretty interesting in terms of today's topic. Our flagship product for the IoT device management called Coiote. Coiote IoT Device Management. It's a platform used by AT&T for device management of the IoT terminals. It's integrated with the AT&T... We have some issues with the fonts. AT&T data flow - I hope that you know that solution from AT&T. Also AT&T AMOC - AMOC is a platform for asset tracking services. We delivered for AT&T also the inter- operability and certification platform. So, basically, all OEMs, ODMs, wanting to deliver the devices for AT&T network need to be certified from the device management point of view with our platform. One can ask, basically, what are the ingredients for a good IoT service. A good or bad, any kind of IoT service. So first of all you need to have connectivity. I believe that the market today is going towards cellular IoT. So two of the most popular, basically, two... The only two standards which we have: LTE Cat-M1 or Narrowband-IoT. We have also the standards using the unlicensed band like Sigfox or LoRa. But this is not our focus today. So you need to have devices. Sometime you need to have devices... Basically, IoT is about devices. It's hard to offer and deliver IoT service without the devices. Once you have the devices, one can ask basically: How I can manage the devices? So we at AVSystem believe that the particular mandatory tool to deliver and to build the working and scalable IoT services is a device management solution. So, basically, if you have devices, anything above 50, right? Because if you have the network of the devices below 50 pieces, basically, you can do it on your own, you can do it manually. But if you have bigger network, you need to have the solution which will help you manage those devices. Once you have all of these three, then we can think about application, right? Application, which is frequently considered also as a kind of an IoT platform. IoT platform is a kind of a buzzword today for a lot of companies in the market delivering IoT platforms. You can easily count almost three or four hundred companies claiming that they have IoT platforms, but "IoT platform" is such a fuzzy word. You need to think in terms of application. Once we have that, we can talk about the data processing. So, why do we care about device management? Why do we say that device management is important? Basically, when I founded the company 13 years ago and we started to play with device management nobody considered device management as something really hot. Device management was a kind of a service or a kind of a functionality which was delivered and demanded only by the telcos. Because if we go back 10 years backwards, only telcos and telecommunication operators were a kind of industry requiring device management solution, because it was the only industry using the devices at scale, right? The same or similar type of devices used for the delivery of broadband services. I believe that most of us don't even see the examples of the device management services or the device management applications which are around. Two years ago we had a pretty bad weather situation here in the US, it was the hurricane Irma. More or less the same time a year ago end of August, beginning of September. And it was pretty hot news around Tesla, about Tesla - what they did. I don't know if it was Elon or somebody from his advisors, but Tesla remotely upgraded the battery in the Tesla S model. As you know the Tesla had at the time two Tesla S models: One with a 60 kWh capacity and a better, but more expensive, model with the 75 kWh capacity, right? So Tesla over-the-air upgraded the capacity of the battery of the car, just letting the people go from the zone of danger. So it's basically device management, right? They literally changed the configuration of the car. I'm not sure if it was related to that firmware upgrade or some configuration but they unlocked additional hidden power in the car, right? So the people using the Tesla 60 kWh were able to get additional 30 or 40 miles of range. And a similar thing we have if we speak about device management in the IoT. So if we have devices which are distributed most probably around the globe, or in quite a big area, basically, devices which are quite cheap. So cheap that it's not profitable to send an engineer to do something with them. We need to have a solution which will help us to manage them. To maintain them, right? And such a device management solution can be used for a couple of use cases. So one of them is device onboarding. So everything that is related to onboarding of the device, to prepare the device to serve the service to the customer. Device configuration, applying security patches - security is also pretty important for the IoT. If everything is going to be connected to the net, I rather would like to be sure that, you know, the device, the asset or kind of the intelligent gadget which I have, which I carry, will not create a kind of a security hole. FOTA - the name and the kind of a word which you should be familiar with. So, firmware over the air. From time to time the device vendor, device manufacturer is releasing a new firmware version. And that firmware version needs to be applied on the device. So it's one of the basic, really basic capabilities of the device management solution. Once we have all of them, we can talk about some proactive maintenance. So if we have the big population of the devices we can collect data from, and try to, in a smart way, predict when the device is going to break, when the battery is going to die, so we are able to predict, basically, to optimize our cost. Do we have any other reason to think about device management, such boring stuff? We realized one day, some time ago, that there is a very similar business model, very similar offering in another industry and basically it's called insurance. So it's called insurance. If you have device management you can be sure that one day, if something happens, you have the tool, you have the tooling at your hands to fix it, right? So, you know, the device management may not be used for many days, but one day if you really need to change the configuration of your network, the solution is there, so you are prepared. So a similar thing like with insurance, right? We are paying for that, if you are not using it, you are pretty happy, right? Because if you need to use your insurance that means something happened. So similarly with device management. And how we can scale? This is a question of our today's presentation. What we should do, basically, to scale our IoT service? So... first of all, I believe we should follow industry standards. Number one, there is no need to invent the wheel from scratch. There are many smart people around, a lot of smart companies around, and basically the industries which are utilizing the standards around, like telcos. We should consider the interoperability, right? Another keyword today on the IoT landscape. If we have the devices and we are building the IoT service, I wouldn't recommend to go for the non-vendor-agnostic solution. For example the devices which can be connected only to one cloud provider. One day you want to change the cloud provider and you may have a problem. So the interoperability. And the security, of course, the third one. So I would say that those are the three ingredients to ensure a good foundation for building a scalable IoT service. So, if we come to the industry standard, because I said that from our point of view it's very important, we believe it's very important and as a company specialized in device management we are actively developing the standard which is called Lightweight Machine-to-Machine. It's a standard which is already accepted, approved by the largest Tier-1 service providers around the world. So as I said at the beginning we work with AT&T here in the US. But not only AT&T is using Lightweight Machine-to-Machine right here in North America. We see a lot of traction about the LwM2M on other markets, like Japan, Australia, also Europe. So what is the Lightweight Machine to Machine? I will, very briefly, try to introduce this protocol to all of you, who are not familiar. So LwM2M is a protocol coming from OMA, today it's OMA SpecWorks. OMA is Open Mobile Alliance. It's kind of the working group specification, group responsible for specifying the technical standards coming from the telco industry. So many years ago they specified and defined OMA DM. The protocol which is still used, for example, in our handsets which we have. Automotive industry is still using OMA DM today for FOTA, for upgrading the car software. There are a couple of benefits of using LwM2M. First of all the protocol was designed... with the IoT in mind, so, basically, everything that is constrained, you know constraint related to connectivity and the battery life, and the throughput of the network below 10 kilobits per second. What are the benefits of the Light-weight Machine-to-Machine? As you see, basically, it's very power-efficient. Number two, it can use both the IP network, non-IP delivery network for the LwM2M 1.1 standard, the latest one. As well as we can use text messages, for example to wake the device up, right? So if we have the IoT device which is sleeping, just to save battery, you can basically send a text message over the cellular network to wake the device up. So this is the only standard which defines this kind of activity. From the helicopter view - the stack of LwM2M. So, we have the whole logic which is defined by the standard. So the good thing is that, basically, the different devices using the standard compatible with LwM2M can be easily, out-of-the-box, supported by any kind of device management platform also supporting LwM2M. COAP - constrained application protocol, which is used as a transportation layer, and UDP which is much more efficient than the TCP protocol used for example by MQTT. LwM2M defines also interfaces for different use cases. So again, this is something that we get free of charge. Another advantage of LwM2M: It defines the concept of data model. Certainly, it's not a new concept because several other protocols use exactly the same concept, like mentioned previously OMA-DM, or even the TR-069, another telco protocol coming from the broadband industry. The good thing about the data models here is that... that the ODM or the OEM or even another company can define their own specific data model. So we can basically extend the number of the parameters we'd like to support. Such data model can be present later on in the platform. Here is a screenshot taken from our DM platform, Coiote, the same solution used by AT&T today. So the data model can be presented to the user or to the administrator or to the technician in a pretty simple way. LwM2M brings also the concept of the gateways to the industry. So, basically, a simple gateway can combine also other connectivity, like Bluetooth, Z-Wave, ZigBee, this kind of stuff. And the latest update of the protocol we call LwM2M brings a few pretty important technical improvements. So first of all CoAP over TCP, bindings to the low-power networks, like the non-IP data delivery, and additional encodings. What I would like to highlight: the difference between LwM2M and MQTT. It's very important to keep in mind that the MQTT is not a device management protocol, right? MQTT is pretty popular, is an old protocol, it's very famous, it's very simple, right? So literally, we can take an MQTT library, and have it up and running in less than half an hour. What's the issue with MQTT? The issue is that it doesn't guarantee, it doesn't bring you any kind of compatibility. So anytime you need to code and you need to develop, you need to design your own logic, your own processes from scratch, right? If you have one device using MQTT and you have another device using MQTT, basically, it's a completely different world. So this is number one and the most important difference. Sometimes MQTT as a protocol is used by the cloud providers because both Microsoft in the Azure cloud and Amazon in AWS cloud use MQTT. But it's not the way to go for the proper device management. So what kind of an issue you can consider to be solved with the LwM2M? Number one, it delivers standardized FOTA, firmware over the air, right? So if you have LwM2M terminal and a LwM2M-capable platform - the server side, basically, the FOTA is no longer your problem. You can rather think about the policies, how the new firmware should be applied, whether, you know, the new firmware should be applied in a cascade, or basically applied only to a particular number of the devices. But it's so simple. Basically, the platform with the LwM2M gives you the full auto-discovery of the device capabilities. So, we can say it's plug-and-play. Additional interfaces for remote management and remote configuration. And a very important thing, an interesting thing: due to the nature of the protocol and the design, we can send the telemetry data, the monitoring data to the server site. So this is how the deployment for AT&T has been done. All the data not on... So, basically, LwM2M is used for FOTA, for management of the devices, but at the same time LwM2M is used to transport the telemetry data from the devices to the central site. A lot of features which... basically, we can discuss here longer, but if you're interested - as I said: come to our stand - related to the platform, so the remote configuration, user management, policy management, workflows, tasks... Basically, you know, we brought our 12 years of experience in the device management in this product, so I believe that we can cover at least 99% of the use cases. No matter from which industries they come. One important thing, which I wanted also to mention, AVSystem is considered as a leading company of the LwM2M initiative. A year ago we've been mentioned as the market leader in the LwM2M, by MachNation, a reporting group. This year among more than 15 companies which were evaluated in the report, Basically, on this graph we are hidden under the name here. So we are vendor number 11. As you see in the ranking, MachNation considers AVSystem with the device management solution specialized in IoT device management, a number 2 player on the market. And for at least four years we actively participate in: number one, in designing the standard, and number two, testing our implementation with other companies, because certainly... It's our interest to develop the market and to spread the information, the popularity of this technology. So these are the results from the last year's Testfest, a kind of event where different companies are bringing in the server and the client's implementation to verify the interoperability level. So, as you see, our entrant proposition got a better score than Nokia and Ericsson. Before I finish... I just would like to mention as well that we have an open-source library, supporting LwM2M, it's called Anjay. You can find it on GitHub. So, it's pretty... I would say it's... most simple way to start the journey with this technology. So, this is all I wanted to share with you today. If you have any questions, feel free. If the questions will bring... will come to your mind a bit later, we are here, just next to this space, so feel free to come to us and talk. Thank you. Any questions? So you mentioned LwM2M, but did you consider oneM2M, the other protocol made by ETSI? And the other question is: are you using LwM2M on the phone, to manage the phones at AT&T, or to manage other devices? OK, so the oneM2M is not a protocol, it's rather a concept, you know... taking all different ideas, specifications, and trying to 'umbrellize' the direction and the specification of the IoT platform. So, I would say that LwM2M fits into the oneM2M concept, number one. And to answer your second question for the AT&T: No, the phones today still are powered by the OMA-DM. So the LwM2M is used by AT&T with our platform only to empower IoT devices. So two or three weeks ago, the AT&T together with Sercomm announced the availability of the new device, it's called a tracker. A very small - this size - box, which you can attach basically to the container, or the engine if you are Boeing, and you want to track, basically, where your thing is. So it's a device which can send the data once a day for at least 2 years. And the LwM2M is used to control that device, for FOTA, to configure that device, and also... as a channel to send the telemetry data from our platform to the core network element of the AT&T. Thank you once again, have a good afternoon. 