Business."  General We are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology and software solutions delivering innovative services to our customers globally. Our technologies, services and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of solutions that allow our customers to accept various payment types and operate their businesses more efficiently. We distribute our services across a variety of channels in 32 countries throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil and operate in three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in 2000 and spun-off from our former parent company in 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payment technology services business since 1967. Since our spin-off, we have expanded in existing markets and into new markets internationally by pursuing further acquisitions and joint ventures, including recent acquisitions of technology-enabled and software-driven businesses. In April 2016, we merged with Heartland Payment Systems, Inc. ("Heartland"), which significantly expanded our small and medium-sized enterprise distribution, merchant base and vertical reach in the United States. We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers globally. Our payment technology solutions are similar around the world in that we enable our customers to accept card, electronic, check and digital-based payments. Our comprehensive offerings include, but are not limited to, authorization services, settlement and funding services, customer support and help-desk functions, chargeback resolution, terminal rental, sales and deployment, payment security services, consolidated billing and statements and on-line reporting.In addition, we offer a wide array of enterprise software solutions that streamline business operations to customers in numerous vertical markets. We also provide a variety of value-added services, including analytic and engagement tools, payroll services and reporting that assist our customers with driving demand and operating their businesses more efficiently. The majority of our revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on the card type or the vertical. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees based on specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions.Our primary business model is to actively market and provide our payment services, enterprise software solutions and other value-added services directly to our customers through a variety of distribution channels. We offer high-touch services that provide our customers with reliable and secure solutions coupled with high quality and responsive support services. Through our direct sales force worldwide, as well as bank partnerships, which we generally refer to as "direct distribution," we offer our payment technology services, software and other value-added solutions directly to customers in the markets we serve. In addition, we also provide certain of our services through a wholesale distribution channel where we do not maintain the face-to-face relationship with the customer. As we continue to grow and control our direct distribution by adding new channels and partners, including expanding our ownership of additional enterprise software solutions in select vertical markets, our wholesale distribution channel has become a smaller portion of our business. We seek to leverage the continued shift to electronic payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels or through acquisitions in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region and investing in and leveraging technology and people, thereby maximizing shareholder value.  We also seek to enter new markets through acquisitions in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and the Latin America region.  31Table of ContentsIn general, our business has not experienced pronounced seasonality.  However, each geographic channel has somewhat higher and lower quarters given the nature of the merchant portfolio. In 2016, we changed our fiscal year end from May 31 to December 31. As a result, the period consisting of the seven months ended December 31, 2016 is considered the "2016 fiscal transition period." When our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2017 and the 2016 fiscal transition period are compared to our financial results for the prior-year periods, the results compare the twelve-month period from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017 to the twelve-month period from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016 and compare the seven-month period from June 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016 to the seven-month period from June 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015. The results for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 and the seven months ended December 31, 2015 are unaudited.Segment InformationFor a description of our reportable segments see "Note 16—Segment Information" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.Executive OverviewAs more fully described in "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 3—Revenues" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we adopted a new revenue accounting standard on January 1, 2018 that results in revenue being presented net of certain fees that we pay to third parties, including payment networks. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses during the year ended December 31, 2018 by the same amount and had no effect on operating income.We experienced strong business and financial performance around the world during the year ended December 31, 2018. Highlights related to our financial condition and results of operations as of December 31, 2018 and for the year then ended include the following:•Consolidated revenues were $3,366.4 million and $3,975.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Consolidated revenues without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard increased by 12.6% to $4,475.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $3,975.2 million for 2017. The increase in revenues without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard was primarily due to organic growth.•Consolidated operating income was $737.1 million and $558.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 21.9%. Without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard, our operating margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 15.6% compared to 14.1% for 2017. The increase in operating income and operating margin without the effect of the new revenue accounting standard was primarily due to the contribution of revenue growth and a decrease in costs associated with acquisition and integration expenses of $38.5 million.•Net income attributable to Global Payments was $452.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $468.4 million for 2017, and diluted earnings per share was $2.84 for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to $3.01 for 2017.•On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "2017 U.S. Tax Act"). As a result, we recorded a provisional net income tax benefit of $158.7 million, which increased diluted earnings per share by $1.02 for the year ended December 31, 2017. During 2018, we continued to analyze other provisions of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act and completed our accounting for the transition effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act, which resulted in an income tax benefit of $23.3 million.32Table of ContentsEmerging TrendsFor a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our continuing operating results, see the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.The payments technology industry continues to grow worldwide and as a result, certain large payment technology companies, including us, have expanded operations globally by pursuing acquisitions and creating alliances and joint ventures. We expect to continue to expand into new markets internationally and increase our scale and improve our competitiveness in existing markets by pursuing further acquisitions and joint ventures. We believe that the number of electronic payment transactions will continue to grow and that an increasing percentage of these will be facilitated through emerging technologies.  As a result, we expect an increasing portion of our future capital investment will be allocated to support the development of new and emerging technologies; however, we do not expect our aggregate capital spending to increase materially from our current level of spending as a result of this.We also believe new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. We expect industries such as education, government and healthcare, as well as recurring payments and business-to-business payments, to continue to see transactions migrate to electronic-based solutions.  We anticipate that the continued development of new services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business and our revenue in the future.Recent AcquisitionsOn October 17, 2018, we acquired SICOM Systems, Inc. ("SICOM") for total purchase consideration of approximately $409 million, which we funded with cash on hand and by drawing on our Revolving Credit Facility (described in "Note 8—Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). SICOM is a provider of end-to-end enterprise, cloud-based software solutions and other technologies to quick service restaurants and food service management companies. On September 4, 2018, we acquired AdvancedMD, Inc. ("AdvancedMD") for total purchase consideration of approximately $707 million, which we funded with cash on hand and by drawing on our Revolving Credit Facility. AdvancedMD is a provider of cloud-based enterprise software solutions to small-to-medium sized ambulatory care physician practices in the United States. On September 1, 2017, we acquired the communities and sports divisions of Athlaction Topco, LLC ("ACTIVE Network") for total purchase consideration of $1.2 billion, consisting of approximately $600 million in cash and 6.4 million shares of our common stock. We funded the cash consideration primarily by drawing on our Revolving Credit Facility. ACTIVE Network delivers cloud-based enterprise software, including payment technology solutions, to event organizers in the communities and health and fitness vertical markets. These acquisitions align with our technology-enabled, software driven strategy and add enterprise software businesses operating in existing vertical markets that we serve and additional vertical markets that we believe offer attractive growth fundamentals. See "Note 2—Acquisitions" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these and other acquisitions.Results of OperationsRevenuesAs more fully described in "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 3—Revenues" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we adopted a new revenue accounting standard on January 1, 2018 that results in revenue being presented net of certain fees that we pay to third parties, including payment networks. This change in presentation affected our reported revenues and operating expenses during the year ended December 31, 2018 by the same amount and had no effect on operating income.33Table of ContentsThe majority of our revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type or the vertical.  We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees based on specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. These revenues depend upon a number of factors, such as demand for and price of our services, the technological competitiveness of our offerings, our reputation for providing timely and reliable service, competition within our industry and general economic conditions.We provide payment technology and software solutions to customers and fund settlement either directly, in markets where we have direct membership with the payment networks, or through our relationship with a member financial institution in markets where we are sponsored.  Revenues are recognized in the amount of customer billing net of interchange fees and, beginning in 2018, payment network fees. We market our services through a variety of sales channels, including a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and enterprise software providers and referral arrangements with value-added resellers ("VARs"), which we generally refer to as "direct distribution." We also sell services through our ISO channel, where the ISO receives a share of the customer profitability in the form of a monthly residual payment, which is reflected as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Operating ExpensesCost of ServiceCost of service consists primarily of salaries, wages and related expenses paid to operations and technology-related personnel, including those who monitor our transaction processing systems and settlement functions; the cost of transaction processing systems, including third-party services; the cost of network telecommunications capability; depreciation and occupancy costs associated with the facilities performing these functions; amortization of intangible assets and provisions for operating losses. For periods prior to 2018, payment network fees were included in cost of service.Selling, General and Administrative ExpensesSelling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of  salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, customer support functions other than those supporting revenue, administrative employees and management; acquisition and integration expenses; amortization of capitalized customer acquisition costs; residuals paid to ISOs; fees paid to VARs, independent contractors and other third parties; other selling expenses; occupancy costs of leased space directly related to these functions; share-based compensation expense and advertising costs.Operating Income and Operating MarginFor the purpose of discussing segment operations, we refer to "operating income," which is calculated by subtracting segment direct expenses from segment revenues. Overhead and shared expenses, including share-based compensation, are not allocated to segment operations; they are reported in the caption "Corporate." Similarly, we refer to "operating margin" regarding segment operations, which is calculated by dividing segment operating income by segment revenues. 34Table of ContentsYear Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2017 The following table sets forth key selected financial data for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, this data as a percentage of total revenues, and the changes between periods in dollars and as a percentage of the prior-period amount. The income statement data for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements included in 