 Hey whats up guys ? I am back here with another episode of 5 Unique gadgets you might not know about.. Do check out our previous episode if you haven’t already and now without any further ado lets begin. Firsr up is Walli For something so easily misplaced, a lost wallet can cause a great amount of hassle. Replacing a driver's license, canceling credit cards can be more of a cumbersome task. The people behind Walli are aiming to save us from such hassles, by giving our smartphone a nudge when the wallet or some of its contents are left behind. Walli is a smart wallet that connects to your phone via Bluetooth. It not only sends you a notification if you leave our wallet behind but it even notifies you if you leave a card behind. Pretty cool indeed. Thanks to its patent-pending technology the creators call “SecurePockets “, Walli’s smart pockets are capable of sending a signal to the paired smartphone in case anything in the pocket goes missing. It uses a timer to do so which is customizable via its dedicated app. More interestingly Walli can also help you find your phone. Double tap your wallet, and if your handset is within 100 feet, an alarm will sound, even if it's in silent mode. And quite thoughtfully, It's also RFID protected, so hackers can't scan Walli and access your card information. The wallet is made from genuine leather and is dust-proof. And since it is powered by a single watch battery, you don’t need to worry about replacing it for around six months So check the links in the description if you want to get your hands on this smart wallet which most certainly has an edge over others. Next we have is 101Hero 3D Printer With 3D printers becoming cheaper and more accessible to average users, the need for mastering complicated software is a huge barrier for these printers becoming a more consumer oriented product. People behind 101Hero are trying to address this problem by offering affordable 3D printers with simplified design easy enough for anyone to use. For starters, the 101Hero can be set up in minutes, can operate independently of a computer and features one button printing operation. Users can download pre-made 3D designs from the internet onto an SD card which is then inserted directly into the printer and with touch of a button the design is printed using any common printing plastic such as PLA, ABS, HIPS and others. Looking more technically into it, 101Hero can print at 50-350 micron layer resolution and 150 micron X and Y positioning accuracy meaning that it's perfect for any task from arts and crafts to prototyping and small production runs. Although offered as a simple to use Consumer Version, 101Hero also offers a Designer and Developer version that is USB compatible with Windows, Mac or Linux system using common open-source software such as Cura. Coming just under $50 for consumer version, 101Hero is perhaps the most affordable 3D printer for home use. So if you are interested, back them up in their kickstarter campaign to see this 3D printer becoming a reality. The links are in the description below. Next up is LazerTouch Mini Turning any surface into a touchscreen is somewhat of a far fetched dream in the past but the desire led a Chinese company , EasiTech in coming up with a product that promises to fulfill this insane concept with LaserTouch Mini. The Lazertouch mini projector is a projector that has the ability to transform any flat surface into a finger-activated touchscreen. Recently launched on Indiegogo, the projector can support anywhere from 20 to 150 inch screen sizes to create a virtual touchscreen and interactive white board for meetings, presentations, 3D movies, immersive gaming, VR, and more Interestingly The projector is portable and is equipped with an interior 13,600mAh battery. It actually runs on Android, providing a touchscreen-optimized operating system as well as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, downloadable apps, speakers, 32GB of storage and ports for HDMI, USB, Micro SD, and headphones. The mini projector features a desktop projection mode, which functions like a tablet PC. It also has a wall projection mode, which provides users with an interactive white board. Its 3D holographic projections makes it ideal for business meetings and even advertising. So if you are keen to see this product in being a reality at an expected price of $475, check out their campaign in Indiegogo linked down in the description. Next is Roome The Roome is an advanced and easy-to-use app-enabled smart lamp which looks a bit like an oversized white mushroom. It’s smooth appearance delivers a modern, minimalistic aesthetic style while the portable design enables it to fit on your desk or nightstand. The Roome smart lamp features built-in motion-sensor technology that allows it to detect motions around itself, so when sensing you enter the room, Roome turns on automatically and When no motion is detected in the room, the smart lamp turns itself off. Pretty nifty feature indeed. Moreover, using built-in LED lights, the desk lamp delivers up to 800 lumens of brightness with 5200K color temperature, and its gesture controlled feature allows you to handily dim the light or turn it on/off by your hand movement above the lampshade. In addition to that, the team behind Roome were thoughtful enough to include two USB ports on the lamp base so you can plug in a couple devices to charge, which is pretty handy. So If you are interested in this smart lamp, you can back them up in their Kickstarter campaign and preorder the smart LED lamp which will be shipped in August. Last but not the least is EnergySquare With the hassle of charging our smartphone through wires, most busy people tend to run out of power in their smartphones before the end of the day. An easy alternative to which is wireless chargers and EnergySquare has come up with a more intuitive solution to charge even the non – qi enabled devices as well. With energysquare, All you need to do is put a small sticker at the back of your device and place it on the ultra-thin charging pad to charge your device. Moreover Energy square is compatible with all smartphones and tablets having micro usb connectors , lightning connectors and even usb type C devices. And interestingly the charging pad can charge multiple devices at the same rate. Unlike induction charging, the company uses its own wireless technology to charge your device with no electro magnetic waves emission or energy loss. And quite thoughfully EnergySquare is shatterproof as well as water resistant. So if you are one of those busy people who would like a ultra fast wireless charging, definitely keep an eye on the EnergySquare. So that is it for this video guys .. I hope you found this video interesting . I will be coming up with more episode pretty soon . till then you guys a great day… 