 We are on the brink of a new era, the dawn of the flying car. On this episode we take a look at the flying taxi. Unveiled at CES Las Vegas 2019, the Bell Nexus is a flying autonomous taxi. This hybrid electric aircraft was developed to as a essential piece of the world’s first aerial rideshare network. With plans to test fly the Nexus by 2020 and a commercial launch by 2023 this vehicle is slated to be a part of Uber Air the Bell Nexus Air taxi will be one of many vehicles in the system. Weighing 6000 lbs or 2700 kg the Nexus has a max flight speed of 150 mph or 241 km\h. These speeds are achieved by six fans mounted on top that span 8 feet or 2.5 meters in diameter. Positioned downwards for take of they rotate sideways when at the desired height for forward moment much like a Harrier jet. With a top range of 150 miles or 241 kms this taxi can easily cover the distance of any city and its surrounding area. Reducing individual car ownership is one of the goals of this project to help reduce congestion on the roadways. A quick air taxi ride will make travel within urban areas fast and efficient. Los Angeles, Dallas are already slotted as the initial launch locations with a 3rd undisclosed location to be announced. A report in 2016 found that citizens of Sydney and Los Angeles spend upwards of 7 working weeks a year commuting with 2 of those weeks being stuck in traffic jams. Developing a network of sky ports, Uber has sat down with local government and property developers to make sure there are places these flying taxis can land. Uber has also partnered up with NASA to create a low altitude unmanned air traffic management system. The technology of manned and unmanned low altitude air travel is increasing exponentially. We really are on the brink of a different world of transport at least in major cities to begin with. Take a moment next time you are outside and look up and appreciate the calm and peace because 10 years from now George Jetson will be buzzing by every 30 seconds. You can’t stop the innovation and progress there are only 2 options embrace this new technology or move into the woods. How long do you think it’ll take before flying autonomous taxis are a common everyday sight even in small towns, share your thoughts down below. I hope you enjoyed this episode, consider subscribing and until the next one have a good one. 