 Welcome Goodwood SpeedWeek to Alauda  Aeronautics here in Adelaide, South Australia   where we're going to give you the a preview,  the first sneak peek, of our full-size Speeders. Here at Alauda Aeronautics we're working  on the world's first flying racing car. We're in the middle of a mobility revolution  right now. What we're doing, is creating a racing   series to capitalise that industry. Airspeeder is the race to create the ultimate flying car. When   we look back at pioneers like Ford and Rolls and Renault, Marcel Renault was a racing driver, Charles   Rolls was a racing driver, Henry Ford was a racing driver and used his winnings from racing to start   the Ford Motor Company. The first Fiats were racing cars, the first Bentleys were racing cars   the first Mercedes was a racing car, so  it stands to reason that in this century   the first flying cars that truly change the world will be racing cars. The future of mobility is obviously electric. We're getting electric planes, we're getting electric   multicopters and those same trends that are driving electric vehicles and autonomous vehicles   are going to be driving air taxis and electric  mobility in the sky. We believe that racing   is going to be the great catalyst to propel the industry forward. The Airspeeder mission is to   be the race that creates the ultimate flying car. That race we want it to be motorsport in the sky. Multiple vehicles starting together in the air at the same time. This is not a new air race, this is   motorsport in the sky. Being based in South  Australia, we've been incredibly lucky to have   been able to keep moving while COVID has raged around the world. We're very fortunate to have   our engineering team based in South Australia. The South Australian state government, we're very grateful to   them for managing the pandemic and so we've been lucky enough to keep moving and keep producing   vehicles. Over the last few months we've been hard at work putting together our Mk3 prototypes. The Mk3 is our first full-scale design and  we're excited to show the world its first look the Mk3 and what it's going to look like. So, this is it! This is the Mk3. For the past  couple of years, we've been working on the Mk2 which was a 3/4 scale proof of concept. This is Grant Hiller, our Senior Aerospace Engineer. Grant do you want to tell   us a little bit about the Mk3 and what it  means to us? So as Matt said this is our first full-scale unmanned vehicle. We're using this to test the performance   and push the envelope of what we want to achieve in the race series, so we're going to be testing   the manoeuvrability of the vehicle, figuring out the performance and then we're going to lead into   the Mk4 manned program, so we're going to start validating all of the different safety features   on the Mk3. We're going to be looking at  introducing lidar, radar and machine vision to form   a collision avoidance system, where we're going to create a virtual force field over the vehicle to   keep the pilots safe but also allow really close quarter motorsport action. Do you want to tell us about the body and the chassis?  So the Mk3 here is a full carbon fibre  structure, but we're then going to evolve into a   full monocoque structure for the Mk4, so  it's going to be really lightweight, strong   and also extremely safe for the pilots. There's a software collision avoidance   layer for safety and then there's a mechanical safety layer. Aviation in general   is a bit of a beast. It moves quite slowly because there are very rigorous   certification programmes but racing in aviation can move a bit faster. Yeah, that's the beauty of it so   in the Airspeeder Race Series, we can really push the boundaries each season: introduce new technologies,   rapidly evolve and really make the whole thing safer but also keeping it really exciting   for the viewers. Thanks very much Grant , now we will talk about batteries So talking about powertrain, this is Annie Mossman and she is a Mechanical Engineer who joined us at the   start of the year and was previously on the  Queens University Formula SAE team building race   cars, combustion and then electric and a big part of what you've been doing is upgrading   our powertrain upgrading the batteries from the  Mk2 to the Mk3. One of the key things I've   been looking at, is one of the hardest points  is the ESCs, so the electronic speed controllers.  One of the biggest challenges which where we're at right now is that nobody's designing those parts   so we kind of have to match the system  as best we can and then go all right   now can we create something custom that's going to be better than this? The other thing that I'm doing   is redesigning the battery. That really started as a safety factor that was one of the main focuses   and then also increasing the power so this new battery should have 95% increase in available   capacity with only a 50% increase in weight. One of the biggest issues with our previous design   was actually the connections. You'd have to  have somebody go up and disconnect four different   connections before the battery was fully off power. The new system is slide and lock - basically the   connections are part of the system, you slide the battery in, it locks into the frame. It's   a prototype design but this is what we're aiming towards, to be able to have it quick in and quick out.   It both adds that safety factor of not having  somebody needed to be near the vehicle for very   long at all, and also it means you've got quick pit stops. Somebody can come in, unload a battery,   load another battery. You're back out flying, racing, getting in there. Obviously we're building a   racing series and when we're circuit racing,  we're going to be changing out those batteries in   electric pit stops, so a really essential part of that is to be able to get in, get out really fast.  You don't want to spend 20 minutes  changing batteries in the middle of a race   especially with those six minutes performance batteries. Exactly a lot of changes. What you   have to do is really design how much power do you need? How long do you need to be flying? What   performance do you need so that you can have as little battery as possible to get you that   distance and to get you the performance that you need to make it there as quickly as possible.   You actually have different designs of batteries depending on what kind of section of race you're   looking at. If you're looking at something where you've got a bunch of dynamic high performance   moves but it's really short, you want a small  battery in there just to get you through that   section, keeps your vehicle light, keeps you agile: similar to F1 where it's not just a race   there's other systems, there's other things  involved. It's not just about how fast you can fly.   To give everyone context for what kind  of power is in a Mk3, these battery packs   are 560 kilowatts max available power. That's the same max power as the battery pack that's in a   Porsche Taycan Turbo S, so 560 kilowatts is enormous amounts of power to be able to deliver   instantaneous power. What you need to make those quick adjustments in the   air. If we compare that to that  Porsche, it weighs 2.3 tonnes, this weighs under 100   kilos without anything in it, so enormous amount of power in a very light package. Hey it's   a mobility revolution. We don't just have  to build taxis, we can have fun too. Awesome!   Thanks very much Annie. Now we're off to look at the design of the Mk4 and what's to come. I'm the one who designed the the Mk4 concept, so the way I met Matt, I showed him my personal   thesis project which was basically an electric seaplane inspired by the car industry so   it was supposed to look like a sort of flying car with a seaplane technology. The parallels between   what we're trying to do and the iconic designs of the Schneider Trophy, the seaplanes racing around   Monaco at the turn of last century, that's definitely the kind of ethos that we wanted   in our design language. One of the things I  love about what Felix has done here is to merge   a whole lot of different DNA into one package so when you look at this you kind of instinctively   know that's something new but it's familiar.  The Speeder is essentially a mix of   a Formula 1 from the 60s, a GT sort of car, like an Aston Martin or a Jaguar E-Type and   a multi-copter an octocopter. The biggest  challenge was to combine everything together   to make it still appealing visually and still  efficient from an engineering point of view. One   of the things that excites me the most about this design is when people look at it from all   over the world, and go like it's something totally new but it's also   weirdly familiar. My challenge was to combine everything together and to make it look still   appealing and you know visually striking for  anyone who would look at it. I think that's   what's so unique with an Airspeeder - is  that we create something from scratch   and for me as a designer it's a unique  opportunity to design something with   very little rule basically. I start from a blank  piece of paper. I have you know basic ideas of design constraints but other than  that it's free to design   whatever you want and if we had to compare ourselves to the auto industry this is   pure innovation. We are not constrained by  a by four wheels or by a square frame - we   are starting and at the moment leading a an entirely new market which is the market of   racing flying vehicles. That's very rare in the  auto industry and the aviation industry so what   the opportunity that we have right now to do something inspiring is it's incredible and we won't see this again for maybe another  100 years, you know the opportunity to define the   shapes of the icons. I think I kind of  see it as fantastic. It's a lot of fun but it's   also a kind of responsibility. We're creating the things that people look back on and go that was   the golden age. We've got to do well or  it's a strange looking strange mix,  just strange, you know a mechanical creature that's not what we want. We still want something iconic,  well crafted, obviously super lightweight, super fast, and super sexy. Absolutely awesome, thanks   Felix and thank you Goodwood SpeedWeek for tuning in. It's been a pleasure to show you   a little bit of what we've been working on here on the other side of the world. Stay tuned, follow   us at Airspeeder.com - we're gonna be up  in the air soon and racing before you know it! 