 So good evening everyone and welcome to the British Embassy I am Michael Tatham the acting ambassador to the United States and it is a pleasure to see you all and it is a particular pleasure to be partnering with the National Science Foundation and with Axios for the night's event. One of  the themes of tonight's event will be around change adaptation and innovation and Axios as a vigorous and innovative arrival on the U.S. immediacy certainly exemplifies those themes. Every year in the residency host hundreds of events but few are as rewarding as ones like this where some of the brightest minds on both sides of the Atlantic come together with a common purpose. To share ideas and new thinking on solutions for the grand challenges that will impact tomorrow's societies and opportunities they will bring. The United Kingdom Government is determined to be at the forefront of harnessing the full potential of technological change. That is reflected in our commitment to addressing what we call the four grand challenges one of which is the future of mobility. It is also reflected in the government's commitment to raise investment in research and development to 2.4% of GDP. Governments cannot afford not to be engaged in these strategic challenges we are on the cusp of profound change in how people goods and services move around our towns, cities, and countryside driven by extraordinary engineering and technology innovations t improvements have been gradual increasing capacity on  the existing infrastructure to meet growing demands but the new technologies for mobility which we from that which are under development are likely to be transformational not incremental. Zero emission vehicles and driverless cars advances in data. These developments pose big opportunities but also huge challenges which demand the brightest minds and engaged to harness the opportunities and conceive groundbreaking solutions to those challenges. That brings me nicely to this evening's panel we are extremely fortunate to have with us this evening a concentration of expertise from both sides of the Atlantic and one that brings together experience from government from the private sector from academia and from the military so thank you very much Missy, Jane Lappin and Siobhan Campbell for comprising tonight's panel and Allison thank you for moderating the discussion. Please enjoy the panel discussion and are panelists and Allison over to you, thank you. [Applause] I'm Allison Snyder from Axios thank you acting ambassador for hosting us tonight and thank you to all of you for coming and for those of you watching online and our goal tonight is to really sort of understand where transportation technology stands and what stands in its way and we have a panel of experts here who we get to hear from about the opportunities and challenges. I will quickly introduce everyone. Next to me is Jane Lappin, the director of government affairs and public policy at the Toyota Research Institute and the chair of the committee on a vehicle highway automation for the transportation Research Board. Next to her is Missy Cummings, a professor of Duke University where she is the director of the humans and autonomy laboratory and I will let her talk about later about some of her previous experience and background. And then on the far end is Siobhan Campbell she is the head of the central research team and deputy chief scientific advisor at the UK Department for transport. Thank you all for being here. There is a lot of hype around the future of transportation technology is if you can tell us should we be resetting our expectations and what are reasonable expectations for what the future of transportation will look like and when. Maybe Missy? First of all, I just want to point out that this is an all-female panel. Such a joy for me to get to do so thank you for inviting me and thank you for hosting such a lovely panel. I also just got back from the consumer electronics show so with that as my backdrop I have massive cool factor fatigue. If I see one more flying car prototype I'm going to explode. So, my research deals mostly in transportation technologies, artificial intelligence how humans interact with technology, so I think an important expectation to set is you are not going to get that flying car anytime soon. That is not happening, that is still very far in the future, for a lot of reasons but I think unfortunately the Boeing 737 Max problem we have seen recently is a good indicator that--there is actually no AI in that aircraft autonomy--and we are still struggling to understand systems with a lot of embedded software. That's going to affect air travel but I also think that the car automotive world especially people in the driverless car I don't think they really realize the important lessons that the 737 Max has for the automotive community, not just driverless cars but even things like driver assist which is not as clear-cut that that is a huge win either so I think going forward into the future I think we will start to see more and more safety systems come out in cars. What I like to say collaborative systems. Jane and I worked together the past and Toyota has had this guardian concept and I would like to see more of that personally, more of the collaborative solutions humans and technology working together. My prediction for the near future is you're going to see a lot of driverless shuttles coming around. That was clear at CES that was the message and the coolest thing I saw was a driverless shuttle that had these pods and the pods can hold people and they can also hold goods so I think that's good to be a big part of what you're going to see the future and I think Robo taxis a little bit of automation maybe in high dense urban environments you will see some of that. But I don't think that you are going to have the car that you can jump into here in DC and have it take you to Atlantic City while you sleep in the back--that's not happening anytime soon. That is my expectation. I think we are definitely on the other side of what was an exciting hype cycle where several car companies made strong predictions about being on the road with at least level 4 in 2019 and as we can see in retrospect we did not have any independently operating unsupervised level 4 vehicles operating in the U.S. and I don't think elsewhere in the world. It is as one of my colleagues has famously insisted a very long road before we get to level 5 which for those in the audience or on stream means that the vehicle can drive anywhere anytime with or without roads, that is level 5. It is a long way off. If it's 40 years, 50 years but level 4 which is what Missy alluded to when she said limited route shuttles highly automated shuttles that operate without a driver on well-known roads, unpredictable roadways on protected paths, on campuses we are seeing those now. I know we are seeing them in the UK and we are certainly seeing them in the U.S. Toyota has funded may mobility which is a low-speed level 4 shuttle operating in Detroit and we expect just as you said to see quite a bit more controlled limited low-speed low risk. Siobhan, I think the UK is in general has been on the leading edge of transportation and you were in London and congestion pricing that was one of the first places where it was put into action so you obviously have very ambitious goals for autonomous vehicles by 2020 one curious from your perspective what you think we should be expecting? I don't think I disagree with either of those things I think it's something that's coming in the UK government are trying to put themselves in the forefront of this and make sure they are leading the way on this and we are investing heavily on safety and security because we know these are the issues but I think the challenges of doing that long-distance and the people that we work with says driving around Heathrow airport is happening imminently, but driving to granny's front door is a completely different kettle of fish which and that's the challenge coming, however we are still seeing rapid change in transport although the autonomous stream is on the other side of the hype cycle the disruption that's coming from unexpected places I think is really taking the whole world by unexpectedly so that micro mobility the electric scooters and electric bikes and also the data underpinning different ways of actually purchasing and doing transport and I think it's really interesting that all of our car manufacturers are no longer calling themselves car manufacturers they’re transport service providers. There is a change and it's happening. It is not flying taxis and it's not suddenly the whole world looks like June. I think if that's what's in our head is not happening but I think there is change happening and really quite rapidly and I think it is a data driven change something that we need to be alert to because it's really hard to tell where it is and where it's coming and going. And it's quite tough for us in the UK's. I think a good place to start is part of this is all because driving is really hard, it's a very difficult task if you break it down of what you're asking the brain to do what you're asking people in terms of communication with pedestrians and other drivers there's cultural cues, social cues so I'm wondering if maybe Missy you can talk about where these systems stand today. What are the hiccups what are the things that are hard for algorithms and self-driving cars to understand? I think for self-driving cars the long pole in the tent is perception systems. This is how does a car know where it is in the world and once it knows where it is and what the obstacles and the environment around it is it can make in theory the correct decisions. So I think there is a lot of hubris in Silicon Valley in general that humans are replaceable and we have seen this before across many industries and it turns out that these two sensors you have in your head are unbelievably complex because of course they are attached to the brain behind it and we still don't know how to replicate the kinds of reasoning that we need particularly under uncertainty. So, sensors can do well if the environment is predictable. For example, on a nice sunny day, clear white lines, all drivers are behaving as they should, no bad weather, nothing is breaking, the cars do very well. But I do often say, and Jane lives in Boston, so she knows, and I lived in Boston 10 years, the ultimate Olympic test for these cars is Boston in the wintertime with the department of transportation creating new construction zones. And they do that on a daily basis. You all, and one road in the next day it will be closed and so – And free-range Boston drivers-- And that's the other thing which by the way it is sad and taught me some bad things that I have taken to North Carolina now so I'm sorry. I think that is unquestionably a hard problem. What I struggle with, as a robotics professor, is there is just some physics limitations we cannot get around now. So, we are going to we, as academics, need to take that one step higher to start to understand how to reason under uncertainty and how to do knowledge integration in a way that we are not doing it right now. I am sorry to report that machine learning cannot do everything. AI cannot do everything. These are tools in the toolbox, and we can talk about that for other industries need to learn that lesson as well. AI and machine learning and deep learning they're not going to get us there we are going to have to do something beyond that to finally reach that level V. I was reflecting on what I just heard coming from the transportation research Board meeting where Phil Koopman talked about safety and safety assurance issues particularly around AI and machine learning we had a presentation from the national traffic safety board manager who was looking into the Tesla crashes and both talks Phil set it up rather neatly you can see this picture of a man wearing the bright neon green vest. You pick it up easily in contrast to the rest but the machine learning, the AI, it is very rare to see anyone wearing that color so the AI, the algorithm for lack of a better term, will not recognize it as a human at all because that's not a color associated with humans. So back to your point, it is not just seeing but it's recognizing and interpreting and then taking it a step further being able to predict what that organic matter is likely to do. Are they likely to cross? Can our AI interpret when the pedestrian is about to step out into the street or if they’re just sending another text because they're waiting for them to meet them and there are some very interesting startup companies doing the deep analysis around how we signal one another, how we signal we are about to move but it is still quite early. Some companies are going for the full autonomy route they're all in on level 4 and above autonomy but that's taking longer than expected so in the meantime there are a lot of these advanced driver assistance systems that have come up and I'm curious to hear about all of you and their building blocks to full autonomy but am curious to hear from you all what's the right approach and why? I will try. We are taking two approaches at Toyota. One is called Guardian, the other is called Chauffeur. Chauffeur is the L4, L5--the vehicle drives itself. Guardian is an AI system that supervises the driver maintains an awareness of the traffic environment around the car and provides a safety envelope for the vehicle and the driver intervening only where it senses the need, the emergent need to intervene augment the drivers capabilities and either mitigate or steer safely around a collision. So that is not exactly level 1, 2, or 3. It is augmenting a driver whose remaining in control at all times increasing the safety of the system. You’re shaking your head, Siobhan. I completely agree and we have done some work recently reports should be coming out in the next month around older drivers and what is necessary to keep all the drivers safe and mobile for longer and ADAS comes out as a really important feature of that as a way of supplementing that and making--both increasing the safety but also their confidence in going out and taking their vehicles out. From a UK perspective again, exactly as you are seeing as an augmentation we are very keen on that and we see the advantages of that while at the same time looking at how the UK can help the RMD develop in order to get fully autonomous vehicles on the roads. I have a family member who will remain unidentified and has a relatively new car with all these features, lane keeping assist, emergency brakes all these things and refuses to use them and I'm curious how consumers -- is she on her own? How are consumers receptive in understanding what these technologies do and how they should be used? She is in good company. Women in general make less use of lane keeping a cooperative or adaptive state speed controls than men in general. What is the thinking on why? You guess. [ laughter] I don’t want to say anything. It is data. Women use to begin with speed control less frequently, and in a more advanced setting cooperative adaptive and lane keeping they tend to use it much less frequently. I had a fun experience picking up my car it has all the bells and whistles not surprisingly and the dealer said to me you already know how to use these? And I said, I might. He said, so what you work for Toyota, women don’t use this stuff. I think the industry as a whole is addressing the challenge of educating the public about these systems through its work with standard-setting organizations, through its work with the Institute for Insurance—IAHS--Consumer Reports disorders two threads where manufacturers are developing standard vocabulary, standard terminology and standard descriptions and in that way people will know that this particular adaptive system in a Toyota is identical to the system and in the Honda. It may have a slightly different brand name but the terminology as with perhaps pharmaceuticals where you've got generic names and brand names so that is one way that we are working to address it. How confusing is the terminology for most consumers? Do you see that in your research how people -- I hate to be the downer to all this discussion. One of the things we do in my research is look at the human interaction with these components and this idea of standardization is important because people really don't understand the technologies of the car. Women--I have a personal theory, I think they could understand it but we all have such complicated lives the last thing I want to do after struggling with my I.T. on my laptop and robots all day honestly, I just bought a new car I bought a Jeep and is got rollup windows. I have enough going on at work, so I think you are going to start seeing that a lot more. And I think, here is a prediction that is not going to make Jane happy, I think people are going to reach a saturation point with technology unless we do like single button, right? One of the things we are seeing right now with a lot of drivers are rental cars. People are driving rental cars and being totally shocked by new features that kick in when the don't expect it so people are starting to demand change like either the cars should come with it turned off. How many of you are going to rent a car if you have to go through a 20 minute training session to learn how to use the features and they're not all standardized and they can be radically different across systems so I think people's acceptance of these technologies unless industry comes together and starts to make it seamless, easy-to-understand, not confusing across models which of course then hurts innovation but if we don't do something I think you're going to start seeing people -- I predicted a couple of years a some car manufacturer is going to start making a lot of money saying we have a car that has no automation in it. We’re going to start selling that and we're going to go old school and people are going to start buying it like crazy because they are tired of too much automation. On the flipside of that I just want you as I see my funding agency the National Science Foundation in here, who has is something me to do a lot of great work, none of it related to driverless cars, I am going to say something very controversial which I have been recorded many times a saying, Tesla autopilot is an unsafe system and needs to be shut down. People are dying at rates that are truly what I believe unacceptable and I think they should do a recall and shut this software down because it actually has the opposite effect of it gives people a false sense of security and we’re seeing a lot of the radar in the car cannot detect static objects on highways yet you're only supposed to be using this technology on highways and people are ramming static objects at full speed often with lethal effects. There is no good driver monitoring system. We have been doing work in our lab we get Tesla’s and the driver monitoring system is a torque sensor on the steering wheel so theoretically it's going to sense your hands but it's not a capacity sensor, it’s a torque sensor, and we routinely trick it and how we learned how to routinely trick it was watching YouTube. We trick it by sticking an orange in the steering wheel and that gives enough counterweight to trick the car into thinking that a human is driving it. This is one of the reasons people are dying and having problems in this car. If it is that easy to fool, we need to think about another strategy. There are other manufacturers who have driver monitoring systems that are much better but Tesla in particular is very dangerous and I think if we don't start as a community to understand that some of these behaviors can actually lure people not only into a false sense of security but into very dangerous driving behaviors--it's really a public menace. This is a good segue into what I wanted to ask you Jane and Siobhan about the transportation board and what was on top of the agenda sounds like Tesla was on there and what people are saying what's needed in terms of regulation given the current landscape. I chair the automated vehicle highway committee at the top of the agenda were several topics none of them regulatory directly. One was safety assurance, exploring several different complexities of assuring the safety of the future vehicles. One was public acceptance. We talked about challenges of trust, trusting the vehicle, trusting the system, challenges of ethics and the ethics of the system. We had another panel that was an international panel looking at how to adapt the models that we use to integrate highly automated vehicles into cities. How to integrate automated vehicles safely into the traffic flow and how to integrate them sensibly internal planning models for projections in the future and this was a particularly important project for the U.S. and for the European Community because we were doing it together with data sets from either side of the ocean and using variously different and similar challenges to enrich our understanding going forward. I want to talk about every single one of those but maybe picking up on safety assurance and what we were talking about how safe is safe enough? How do you all see that from each of your perspectives? How safe is safe enough? I think has to be paramount and what you're talking about public acceptability and desirability will never get there unless the trust and it is safe and that's a really difficult mountain to climb in the number of drivers required to prove safety case and actually communicating that to the public I think is really important. We did an interesting piece of work about the public and what the thoughts are autonomous vehicles and what they would need and safety was, as you would expect, number 1 priority for them so there is an awful long way to do that and I think what we need to do is what we are doing is testing it and testing it in different environments and understanding what is safety case is in making sure their regulation environment has prioritized safety as well. I have been very vocal as I explained to you before that perception is the long pole in the tent not just for driverless cars but for the driver assist systems if they're going to have radar in computer vision I have been a strong advocate that from a regulatory standpoint I think we should be developing vision tests. Every single one of you must have a vision test before you get your driver’s license so why can't we extend that to driverless cars or any car with cameras on it. If we have to be tested we should be able to have a set of tests that are objective and make sure that cars do not behave perfectly but can behave in the environments there expected to operate in just like you are. Does the idea get traction? You know, again, as a robotics professor I'm very--some of my research is so exciting and you should see what I'm doing for NSF it’s really wonderful. But on this point, as an engineer the instant you start talking about the word safety, in fact as soon as I say it you all kind of deflate and if I talk with flying cars anybody will perk up and then safety you kind of get bored again so people in the industry and investors don't want to hear about safety. They want to hear about cool and that being said I do work with many safety advocacy groups across the United States and I just want AV Twitter safety leaders of the year, twitter voted. Thank you! I got a box of caramel for it so that's great but other than twitter and a couple of safety advocacy groups here in DC I am not getting a lot of traction but I do think, sadly, every time someone dies in one of these accidents a few more people listen. So, when we are testing for safety and also developing the capability of the system, we do a combination of different kinds of testing. We use scenarios digitally generated scenarios that are derived from real life conditions, what are called edge cases the stuff that does not happen every day the stuff that maybe happens once every half 1 million miles. When we get those data from naturalistic driving studies from overhead aerials so we test our systems, our software systems after all with these scenarios we then download it to the vehicle, run the vehicle around the testbed documenting what's going on, we go back to our scenarios, run again eventually were go on a public road carefully supervised doing bug reports, back to the simulations and to the scenarios with our corrections running it through back onto the testbed in these iterative cycles. Carefully documenting, testing, rerunning, and moving forward. I have two questions I want to ask and then I will open up to the audience. One is that U.S. transportation Secretary just recently released this AV 4.0 plan which lays out 10 priorities for the U.S. and how I think it's 30 odd federal agencies uniting around this and I'm curious to hear from you all about whether it goes far enough and also what lessons from the UK should the U.S. be looking out. In terms of these national plans. I would just like to say that in admiration and respect the UK has a singular leadership position in the world and the way that it has an approach developing guidelines for testing and licensing so, Siobhan. It's something that we pride ourselves on and that we have were looking at it from all angles about what you need in place to get this all system rights of the regulatory landscape, funding landscape, the testing landscape and making sure that there is clarity and that we are really trying to push things forward. We had the autonomous and electric vehicle act to make sure the insurance system around this let this happen. We had plans in place for the testing environment so there's clarity about exactly what happens there and I think that's all really important to make sure that as I said earlier we are trying to encourage people to come to the UK in test this out and practice but make that really safe and understood environment in which to do that. And there is so much activity worldwide. I think we were kind of ahead of the game and everybody is rushing to catch up but it's somewhere that we are trying to maintain that global leadership point that's very important to us because there's a whole bunch of expertise within the UK as well making sure they have the support they need to stay and work in the UK as well so I think the crucial thing about it is making sure we are dealing with everything simultaneously rather than just saying here's a bit of money and let people get on with it and that we are trying to get the whole environment right. Can I ask either of you whether the new plan goes far enough? Does it help us catch up; the U.S. catch up? It is awfully nice to see a calendar log of all the different places where the federal government is supporting the development of the capability. What do you think, Missy? No. What's lacking? An explicit focus on safety and how we're going to integrate that more. If you're going to say should be go with the U.S. 4.0 plan or the UK plan, we should go to the UK plan. One more question I want to open it up. This is about infrastructure changes because are focusing so much on the vehicle but what needs to happen from and infrastructure and Urban planning standpoint to support the future of transportation. Toyota last week at CES announced that they're building a privately owned city in Japan that will be a test bed for these – the woven city. It is broader than mobility it is mobility and also augmented everyday life, so the focus is on developing and integrating AI, robotics, automated vehicles to support people as they age, to support people through their life, to support people with disabilities, with access issues, so this woven city which is a reference not just to the interconnectedness of it but also to Toyota’s past as loom operators it's a lovely metaphor and I think it's going to be a trendsetter as a test bed for future technologies. How realistic is it that technology can be transferred out of this system in which you can pull all the levers and into the real and messy and dirty world? How will that I guess work? This is an advantage that China has for example being able to set these up but maybe the U.S. and UK don't have, I’m curious how that plays into it as well. I think the U.S. has testbeds in the U.S. they could have more elaborate test facilities, more elaborate destinations for us to see how the advanced technologies integrate into our lives and how we use them and a site like woven city allows us to better understand how these technologies are going to affect our future because if you just give me some, I don't know what it is, but if you just had given me a mobile phone 25 years ago I would've said thank you very much I have lived perfectly well without it all these years and now with the experience of all the ways in which it is useful to me, I think I have it in my pocket right now, maybe not--so it is with all advanced technologies until we have the experience of using them and living with them exploring how they work with us in our lives we cannot project or predict how they will affect our future. So, these woven city and other kinds of tests utilities like that give us tremendous insight into how to plan for the future how to plan for the benefits for the future and how to plan to mitigate the challenges. But the moment I guess these technologies go into the real world as they seep into the real world what are the challenges? What does that look like? How do you even begin to offer safety assurance? I think that's where testbeds are so important so the third phase of funding we have for our program is about these testbeds, elaborate simulation, but also we have life simulations with in London within Greenwich and you cannot get a more complex messier environments than London just now and I think it's essential to be doing that testing and trying it out and practice exactly as to learn what the issues are and how they interact with other elements of the system and individuals and people so I think the testing phase that were going through now is absolutely crucial. I want to take some questions from the audience if anybody has one raise your hand and there will be a couple of opportunities. My name is Anne Wilson and I would like to comment about the safety aspect of it. We worked with Boston consulting group a number of years ago and did a study on ADAS technology not level 4 and level 5, I was at CES as well it's beyond my ability to really talk about intelligently but we found that if you have vehicles that have technology you can save up to 10,000 lives per year and for us, and I understand completely, I don't particularly love technology and have my own story about buying cars with the dealership but anybody who's ever been in a vehicle with AEB and has had AEB engage you really wonder how many lives or pedestrians non-occupant fatalities that we could really work with and really help prevent in this country. And that's what we are seeing the greatest number fatalities, our members really want to see a nonregulatory system not something that the UK has to worry about because you already have this but and in cap program, which gives purchasers of vehicles more information about what they’re buying and what they could buy. If they want to have lane departure warning or any types of new lighting systems things like that. That’s not so much of a question but more of a comment but I think we have to think about that road to fully automated vehicles and what we can do for our communities as we get to a fully automated vehicle. I would like to comment on that just to say that AEB--I keep that separate from ADAS. I believe that AEB should be on every car. That's the driver save your life technology but because of what you said there is a movement in this country now called “my car does what?” So because you and I anybody else that has ever rented a car and been surprised by some kind of behavior there are safety advocacy groups in America right now trying to drive the fact that you must be told what is on your car and how it works and the information is for sure given to you in some way so that you're not surprised by these technologies. There are two federal agency efforts that just wanted to take your take on how to leverage the data that's already out there for transportation systems for the future. One of which is the OMB led federal data strategy in the 2020 action plan and roughly 90% of all federal government has a geospatial component to it. What kind of advice would you have moving forward for that effort? That's mostly what I want to get out was the existing data that's out there how can the smart intelligent transportation systems of the future maximize that data that's ready out there and how can you leverage that data moving forward? Any takers? At CES in Las Vegas what was really great if you got to ride around with all the different companies you are trying to while everybody with their L2 plus L3, L4 technologies they were all hooked to into the Las Vegas traffic light system so they have real-time information about where the lights are and what they're about the signal oh, baby, as a former fighter pilot if I had all that Advanced Technology do you know what you could get away with? I think that's actually one of the reasons that they can be so successful in a place like Las Vegas is because they do have this advanced technology that's very much hooked into the geospatial grid. Sadly, they're not very many other cities like that so the demonstrations and the things you can do cars do in Las Vegas is not really a scalable model yet. I think this idea of the data sets is critical and I would actually go back that the 4.0 plan does not address any of that. It really needs to. I think getting the agencies and all the government people in this room know that getting them to talk to each other, getting databases that are shareable and accessible by members of the public, I don't know how it is in the UK but it is a real nail biter in America to try to get through that so I think it's definitely something that we could work better on not just in the transportation agencies but medical, across a lot of other organizations. In the UK we get this it's exactly the same thing it's almost like a public good the data this underpinning it and we will be publishing a data transportation strategy in the spring. Terrific conversation. First of all I'm Jim McCleskey I'm from North Carolina I work for the governor's office here in DC and as a Caucasian state government guy over certain age and happy to help offset your cool overload, I will do my best Dr. Cummings. A degree of state budget them action the payroll of our D.O.T. and this may be first directed to Madam chair but to the panel, what should state D.O.T.'s be thinking about in a limited resource investment environment to be both a ready for the brave New World and safe enough? I think that the brave New World is going to unfold more slowly than was predicted five years ago giving the states and other owner operators, roadway owner operators sufficient time to be thinking through how do we safely integrate these vehicles into our existing traffic flow but you want to begin where this conversation began to ensure that you assign your signage is visible and interpretable by well-maintained and consistent and consistent with the manual of the uniform traffic control devices so that our vehicles can drive across the state line and still be able to recognize the signage and the messages so that is one. The second overtime as more vehicles enter the roadway you have the opportunity to rethink how to operate those roads so where you've got managed lanes, you can put connected and automated vehicles into the managed lanes, packed them in more closely and achieve increased throughput and efficiency, less use of gasoline, you know, so that's a possibility. As you have increasing automated and connected over time you can consider restriping your roads because they will be able to use narrower lanes. The flipside of that of course is your asphalt gets chewed up so longer-term as you think about reallocating lanes to improve throughput you will need to begin thinking about the materials used that underpin the roadway so that's a sample of how to think about it. There are a couple more questions. Hi, I wanted to ask about what are some of the greatest cyber securities that we face with this new technology and what you think industry and government should be doing to address this. From a UK perspective this goes with safety and cyber safety is goes hand-in-hand with that. We are doing work which will look at exactly the safety issues and again, kind of trying to be ahead of the curve and put something out on that. In my downer moment I mean this is Cybersecurity is an emerging field and it is a nascent. I live in a world where students love -- they will not do their homework but they will stay awake until all hours of the night to try to figure out how to defeat systems just for fun and by defeat systems I mean, you know, hacking, taking a control remote control of a car -- really to students in robotics that's fun because you know, that's just something cool to do and I think in that spirit of that kind of hacker spirit that you see a lot of college campuses them one of the most disturbing problems that come up for deep learning algorithms is the ability to passively hack into them. This is not just a driverless car problem. It is homeland security, anywhere you have machine learning algorithms that are trying to look at a technology, face recognition for example, look at signs on the road, turns out there is actually extremely easy if you know what's going on under the hood with a technology to reconfigure the world so we call this passive hacking so you can take a stop sign, change one pixel in the stop sign and then it tricks a convolution of algorithm to see something completely different. There is a famous paper where this group put four stickers on the stop sign and caused a car vision system to see a 45 mile-per-hour stop sign. This is all in the academic world now and we are all trying to show each other up. I don't want you to lose sleep tonight but this is not going to affect you in your day-to-day world now but it is on the horizon if we're doing this now in university settings then this is something that's going to become a real later and again, it's not just a driverless car problem but it is actually a good cautionary tale to explain to you that academics we don't know what we're doing with a lot of deep learning technologies. It is still new to us, the methods are new, they're kind of a relatively new, their black box, we're not really sure how the weights and the neural nets get developed and why they get develop in a particular way and so if academics are still struggling to get at the core of what is happening with these technologies, it concerns me because I cannot go to the state D.O.T. and tell them what to do. I cannot go to Toyota and tell them what to do so we can get ahead of ourselves a little bit in these Cybersecurity areas it's the tail wagging the dog so it's right to be concerned and I think we really have to stand back and make sure we are embracing this as a nation, we are embarking on a whole new world when it comes to Cybersecurity. I am Lucas Franco, Philosophy and Social Policy master student at AU and TDM coordinator there as well. My question is about ethics and who you all think should be or will be making ethical decisions particularly with pedestrian fatalities for the program whether it should be a coder, philosophers, lawmakers or the users themselves and if you think AV will assist or hinder vision zero policies being adopted by different municipalities throughout the world. I think we all bear responsibility for ensuring that the systems are ethical systems. I don't think that the locus is in any one place. In Toyota we are meticulous about maintaining our internal safety culture. Everyone has responsibility for ensuring there is a clean safe workplace. If something appears unsafe on the assembly line in a factory anyone can pull the cord that stops the line and what I would propose is that ethics is similarly a product of culture where everyone in the company whether their writing code or supervising an operation on a test bed has responsibility of thinking ethically and morally about the choices they are making as their writing code or operating the test vehicles. That's the starting out. It's interesting to consider some of the issues, and again reflecting on the TRV meeting that we are in the middle of actually. We had an ethicist talking about the example of a vehicle where vehicle A ahead and vehicle B and there is a vehicle C behind us, we’re stuck over here but we can pull to the right. We see that the vehicle behind us is about to slam into us which would then push us into the vehicle ahead of us. So the professor said well, we could just get out of the way quickly and save myself save the car and this guy was accelerating will plow into the person ahead of us and who knows what kind of life and limb that produces. Alternatively we can see where we are and slow down slightly because after all we are a robot now and let the vehicle behind tap into us just lightly as an alert—as a wake-up, accelerate slowly, and if necessary take some of the shock safety that prevents either any of the three vehicles sustaining human damage so it is an interesting—it is not a trolley problem. It is really right along the way I what you have to think about. There are two more questions in the front. Phil Koopman educate research in Carnegie Mellon and you guys are all going to look at what is he going to drop on us? Let me set up this situation, it’s a short question. Let's say you live in a city where there are three companies very visibly testing self-driving car technology, that would be Pittsburgh where I live, my family lives there, my friends, my neighbors, my colleagues live there. Someday one of those companies can decide to throw the switch and send out cars with no safety driver. I want your advice for what you think those companies should base that decision on. It is not Toyota so you're okay Jane. How should they be thinking about a responsible way to decide that today is the day we deploy without a safety driver. What would you like to see? Oh, Phil. For the rest of the audience this is a question that we normally ask Phil to consult on and we invite him to speak on panels at conferences so he can tell us. But I'm not up there so now it's your turn. I have been pretty clear about this on Twitter which is where my fan base is clearly. When the CEOs will put their kids in that car that's when they are ready. Thank you very much for the wonderful panel. And I want to take advantage of the fact that we have representation from the government from the Academy and from the industry. Now that we are reassessing the timeline and thinking about a longer-term development window for autonomous vehicles should be shift what we think about research priorities. Are there specific topics that you might thought in the pipe cycle are better done by the private sector but now that we have a long window should better be done by collaborative research and public funding. I think there is a section that question you are asking earlier that there is why are we doing this and to what gain and to what purpose and I think there is a real certainly within the UK and move forward towards place making and especially with the Metropolitan mayors really for them to think what is this environment we would like to live and what do I want my city to be and to look like and I see a big scope for a lot of research in that space but how do you make a sustainable, livable, enjoyable place to live in and what role do autonomous vehicles have in that and what do you need to do for you autonomous vehicle tech to achieve that vision and I think that's a really interesting way to explore, and one of the things we are trying to do in the UK is around doing more living labs, more place-based experimentation and learning and doing something around that. That's exactly where I was going to go. I would like to see a lot more public money in partnership with the private sector, setting up testbeds where the public is engaged and we are doing field operational tests and demos so that we can begin a dialogue with the general public about their expectations for the future. We can begin as I noted using these advanced technologies have a better sense of what the implications are. There was a great European project called city mobile where they were in, I believe 17 European cities with this low-speed L4 shuttle operating in a circle around the city and what did that do? It brought to light all the legal and regulatory issues that needed to be cleared to operate it. It surfaced all the pragmatic physical obstacles that would need to be addressed in a loud engagement by the general public we learn from the general public more about how they saw it and how it would fit into their lives and what do they trust about it and we could do a lot more with that. How many more questions to we have? Two more questions and then I have two. It was mentioned that automotive companies are re-describing their purposes, I think it was transportation services. Mobility service providers. I have a question about that. I guess thinking about the car as to be formerly a symbol of freedom and now a symbol of risk and if there are insights about what the meaning of automotive transportation is moving forward since it seems the scope is so much larger. I think there probably is a big culture difference between the UK and the U.S. and whether that's going to converge or diverge is unclear just now and we have seen in the UK that there has been a big shift in the number of young people getting driver’s license, for example, and those living in urban centers—we don't know whether the it's delaying or just not getting drivers licenses as a whole and the aspiration to be a vehicle owner which my generation absolutely had is no longer there. So, there is a potential for there to be a big reconfiguration about how especially urban and dwellers the relationship they have with the vehicle and whether that's simply you go for the ride rather than you own that vehicle. I think it's very similar and it's going to be a lot slower to move and you will need a vehicle to move around and that's not going to change but it's interesting that we are seeing car manufacturers thinking about their relationship with the market in a different way. One more question in the back. Max with Congresswoman Carol Miller who serves on the transportation committee. I wonder if you have any thoughts on what the future of transportation looks like in rural areas because I feel like the future of transportation conversation usually has to do with how it transforms our cities, so any thoughts would be appreciated. Thank you. Part of the reason that their rural areas have less public transportation is because of the high cost of operating a bus with a driver so one possible future would be improved public transit, improved shared transit whether it's public or private, a reduction in the cost of mobility for rural residents which may mean overtime that they don't need to own and maintain a car. It may mean that they can age in place and not have to be worried about getting to the doctor’s appointment. I think we can look forward to improving access in rural areas with a reduced cost and improved service. So, two last questions from me. One of them is a bigger cultural question and we talked about the future of transportation often described as driverless, connected but also shared which we have not talked a lot about. But you know public transit is crumbling people are being diverted to Uber and Lyft but congestion keeps getting worse so the solution that’s put out is you cannot just replace a car with a driverless car but it touches on what you were just talking about which is I guess what is needed to incentivize people to share or give up their transportation. I think the economic argument is always convincing. If it's much cheaper to use shared transit and it's almost as convenient that's a pretty compelling reason, you know like the cost of an extra bathroom that loses value day after day. I think when you have access to good services, easy, smooth, on-demand, that makes it much easier. Shared I think is in economic, if it's a cheaper without a lot of additional cost and time. Do you worry about this? From the trend you're talking about earlier. It's a really big issue for us because again come back to the future of mobility and strategy we set up nine principles and one of them is a move towards sharing and we understand the benefit of sharing and the increase in vehicles on the road does not have to be as great if we share however, all the research we have on the UK populations that they don't want this at all and they get it they get the reason the benefits and they still don't want to do it in the economic argument has to be really quite substantial for them to even start considering sharing so again there's a cultural issue here and we are doing a study now looking at people who actually do so people who use Uber pool what's different and why do they do it to see if we can learn from it but I think it's a necessity I think it's really important that we do this, and I think we then need to understand what that would look like so if it is not Uber pool it's something else and how do we what does that sharing look like that will be acceptable to the UK public. And you've had experiences with road pricing where you put quite a high premium on single occupancy vehicles so that's had some impact. Yeah but there is still a really tight attachment to owning your vehicle and traveling in it when you want to completely independent so I know that in France for example there's a lot more uptick on sharing then there is in the UK so there are some obstacles that we need to better understand and then trying to overcome. My last question is geopolitical one. That is that when we often in this sort of rhetoric around the great powers competition U.S. and China there's several technologies that are often mentioned and autonomous vehicles is one of them so want to hear from you whether or not that plays into that and what's really at stake there? I will take that to start with to say I educate students in robotics globally so like most engineering departments Duke’s looks very Asian, very Chinese that's a reality in America most engineering schools would suffer greatly if we do not have Chinese students. So, I have more insight into probably what is happening into what's happening in at least autonomous vehicles development. I have a lot of former students all my former students are either in Silicon Valley or back in China for example and I don't see -- the good news, if this is good news is -- I'm never going to write in any driverless car any of my students have ever programmed. Never. Never. That does not matter what country I'm in. I would say that as an educator the thing I worry most about technology, and this is driverless cars, and its drones, and its medical devices, everything I work on, there's such insanity around machine learning and AIN this is all students want to learn what was happening is they're not really learning it. They’re just learning how to punch buttons and software programs and generating solutions which they don't really understand which is why I will never get into a car that any of them program. So I think there is actually global technical incompetence happening here, so that's probably not the answer you wanted to hear but I'm actually not worried about the space race of who's going to get to AV market first because the question is they're all going to get there sort of first and it's all going to be bad so that's a lovely note to end on. How about going even more broadly what that stake around this technology? What’s at stake for the United States? Globally or U.S. competitively or globally internationally, what's at stake? Toyota is a global company, most of the OEMs in this space are global companies and we are innovating and all of the countries where we manufacture, we manufacture all around the world. I think that what's at stake generally is improvement to safety. Vision 0, moving towards vision 0, reducing the number of people who die as a result of autos, I think that's the global challenge. Would you like the last word? I actually don't. I don't have anything to add. I want to thank everyone for coming and thank you everyone who is watching online. Thank you to the British Embassy and to the National Science Foundation for hosting and convening this discussion and I want to make a plug for Axios. We have a weekly transportation newsletter called Navigate sign up for it if you like because we talk about all of these issues every week. And I hope everyone will join us for the reception after the event, thank you! [Event concluded] 