 Since cars were first invented, we've clung to two major fantasies about them. One has been to see them fly, and the other has been to make them drive themselves. Flying cars may still be the stuff of science fiction but self-driving cars are a lot closer than you might think. From high-tech features like lane detection and auto braking to a whole host of other computer controlled safety features not to mention the nearly autonomous vehicles out there, the future is here. But how close are we really to having cars that will fully and safely drive themselves, with little or no input from humans. And would that really be as amazing as it sounds? And what is the status of regulations surrounding driverless cars? Just how legal are they? How legal should they be? And what should the process of rolling out this exciting but potentially dangerous new technology be, in a world that must always attempt to balance safety with freedom and innovation? This is Anil Lewis. He lost his sight and with it, his ability to drive when he was 25. This was particularly devastating because of Anil's passion for driving. I had a Mustang convertible. It was greatest experiences in my whole life. Well, one of the greatest experiences in my whole life and at the age of 25 over the weekend, due to Retinitis pigmentosa, I lost enough of my vision so that I can no longer read my computer screen. And of course no longer drive. Ever since then, Anil has been an avid proponent of helping blind people have access to jobs and technology that would make their lives more manageable and normal, and this includes a passion for driverless cars. Can you just start by introducing yourself, and tell us all about your position and your background. Sure. This is Ian Adams. He's an expert who has testified in front of Congress about driverless car regulations, and he thinks these vehicles sounds like a great idea too. I think the best thing that we can do for those who would benefit from self-driving technologies which is to say virtually all of us, but in particular those who are disabled or in communities that do not have access to transportation, as it currently exists. The best thing that we can do is take a permissive approach to regulation. We have a baseline, but then we allow firms that want to test and deploy this technology, to do so in a manner that is responsible to that baseline. Though, he shares their enthusiasm for the technology's potential, Henry Claypool, believes a smart regulatory approach is crucial to ensuring safe and effective implementation. His background is in disability policy and he says we need to be careful about how we roll out products that are marketed, to the disabled community. If you're just pushing hard to get something out there to see how it operates. I mean, I think there is a need for the autonomous driving system to really demonstrate its utility. But we can't allow that to get too far behind the need for the innovation to be applied to these vehicles and how they're built, so that they function for all populations. So as we were developing a driverless tech we're hoping that people are taking into consideration accessibility features that will not only enhance the ability for blind people to use the tech, but also make it a better experience for everyone who's a passenger. All things being equal, experts agree that self-driving cars would be a wonderful thing to have. But a debate continues centering on the best regulatory avenue to take. Self-driving cars have been around for a few years now, in varying stages of development. So it's a surprise to most people that they are relatively unregulated. A few States like California, Florida, Michigan and Nevada, have a few laws in place, mostly about testing. But most States don't have any regulations about driverless cars specifically. And the federal government, there are basically no laws about them at all, other than the ones that apply to all cars. So is this a problem? It depends on your perspective. At the crux of the question around self-driving vehicle regulation is one about a compromised society. When it comes to all vehicles has to make a compromise between safety and accessibility and the usefulness of these technologies. I think we have to really be careful about taking overly broad approach to regulatory reform. We're in need of regulatory reform, don't get me wrong. You really don't have any guard rails for the operators that might come into the market. All it takes is an accident where it's clearly the autonomous driving system, that's the fault. And I think that puts a real chill on the general public's interest in this technology. Self-driving technologies, can't prove themselves to be safer than any other type of technology without having time and miles on the road. And so long as they adhere to the baseline of federal motor vehicle safety standards, and they're as safe as those vehicles which they are required to be by law. Then we are at a good place... We are at a good place in terms of societal understanding and compromise to jump off from. In a driverless vehicle, you're not going to need a steering wheel, a gas pedal, brake pedal. And I know that's really difficult for people to understand because that's the control factor and that's part of it too, I think a lot of people are afraid of losing control. What I would say to those who believe that safety or some standard of safety that is in advance of existing federal motor vehicle safety standards to which self-driving vehicles are already subject more advanced standards should be imposed upon these vehicles as a condition of their deployment and their testing. I would say you're prioritizing the wrong element of safety, I think for safety to come first it is necessary to get this technology out there, proven and into people's hands, that is what's going to lead to safety I don't know that that gets us to a place where we can really have autonomous vehicles driving large rigs across the country. And so, not only is all that heightened potential for harm that we've discussed, but we really need to come to some consensus as a nation, that this technology needs a path forward. And I'm hopeful that level heads can come together, and we can get to a point where we have reasonable guardrails established, so that we can move forward with this technology. So where do we go from here? How do we balance our needs as a society for safety and mobility for all, with the fact that this technology is still evolving and growing? How do we manage these risks? I hope that we as a society can really look to a space where we're not just looking at the efficacy in our own utility, but also recognizing that this is something that's beneficial for society as a whole. 'Cause the intervention of driverless technology is not gonna prohibit individuals who want to steal drive drive. But the prohibition of the introduction of the drivers technology will prohibit individuals like myself, who don't have that choice from doing so. At the end of the day, regulation is not what's going to make this technology safe. It's going to be testing, it is going to be deployment, and it's going to be acceptance by society that will allow developers to ensure that people are getting what they expect, and expectations are what safety is built around. The reality is, that most people in the public, haven't had the opportunity to try this technology. And making it more available in a safe way, I think is a prudent next step. And yet, an incoming or an administration that propagates those rules is going to have to deal with that dynamic, right? Are we going to receive so much incoming from safety advocates, that it makes it difficult to keep these vehicles operating on the roads? Or are we going to be able to give them an opportunity to show that they can serve, an underserved and underrepresented community like people with disabilities? The introduction of new tech is exciting and when channeled properly, it can drastically improve our quality of life. But it's also new and new untested things can be dangerous, bringing about unintended consequences. That's why robust debates like this are so important to make sure that in our quest for safety, we don't forget about Liberty. And in our celebration of innovation, we remember public safety. 