 You clicked this video most likely because you want to build this in survival So I'm not gonna waste your time by showing a creative tutorial. Instead I'll show you A hardcore tutorial. These are the materials you're gonna need. Only 20 slime blocks. Very epic. Also don't forget to bring a bucket of water. Water is very special in Minecraft. You're not a Minecraft Veteran if you're not always carrying a bucket of water. Let's start building. It's important to build this as high as possible because this can only go in four directions, no up and down A convenient way to first climb one of these obsidian towers. I can pillar up with blocks or use scaffolding but that would be wasteful so instead I'm gonna do what's called a pro-gamer move. I'm gonna use nothing but water This should be high enough. We can use this bedrock to build on. It doesn't stick to slime blocks and that is nice. First let's build the engine next we need to make the seats It's important that this block is wood I'll tell you why later. The next step is optional. We're gonna build the cargo spaces so now we have 27 plus 27 plus 15 equals 69 item slots. Nice. Next, place the Observers And it's done Now I'll show you how to pilot this using my Very special flint and steel. If you want to go that way, ignite this block and sit on that Minecart. Before the fire extinguishes right click this note block to release the brake and wait. The fire state change updates the Observer and starts the engine To brake. keep using this note block until it stops This is important. Once it stops, always make sure that this part is retracted Now let's try the second direction, which is the reverse. Similar to before, ignite and update to Observer, sit on the front Minecart, and then release the brake Braking is the same. let's try the third and fourth Directions. First, we need to reposition four blocks like this. That is why we put the wood blocks here here's a diagram for the four directions. Now let's test it. Third direction Fourth direction Very epic. OMG. I dropped my very special flint and steel into the void. I am so sad. He was like a father to me. I loved him like my son Holy ****. I forgot to bring Flint. How can we get back? Oh I have an idea. Remember what I said before about being a Minecraft veteran? You're not a Minecraft veteran if you're not always carrying a bucket of water. We can actually use water to update the Observers and start the engine. Let's try it for this direction. The reverse is just symmetrical so it's the same method For the other two directions, this is how So that's it for this video. Help me get enough views so I can finally monetize my Youtube channel and pay my water bills and more importantly so that I will upload a video of my epic jumbo bomber plane that I will build and drive in Hardcore Survival. So like and share now 