 Every year, companies bring forth some of the  most amazing developments they could make in the   future, in the form of concept cars. Even though  these cars are not available to be on the road,   or even for sale, it still offers us a possible  glimpse of what automotive future beholds for   us. So buckle up as we bring you the most  amazing concept cars that you could see in   the near future! If you like this video,  make sure you hit that subscribe button.  Number Seven The DS X E-Tense  The DS X E-Tense is not just a futuristic car  because of its power, but also because of its   unique style. While cars these days look almost  the same, the DS X E-Tense raises the bar with   its unique asymmetrical design, which is supposed  to give the car more stability and aerodynamics.   According to DS Automobiles, the DS X E-Tense  is their vision of what a car should look like   in 2030. The car has a three-seat configuration,  where one side is covered completely while the   other side is open to catch that fine breeze! But  looks are not the only feature that makes this car   special. It is powered by two different engines,  one engine will be used for boring daily commutes,   and the other will power the car on the race  track with a ginormous engine, big enough to   generate 1,360 hp. It is also equipped with a  fully autonomous mode so that the car will help   you in making a safe yet effortless drive.  The vehicle also has damage protection,   streamlines and is equipped to slowly  understand the preferences of the driver.     Number Six Aston Martin Lagonda Vision  You can't describe the Aston Martin Lagonda  Vision without the words Luxury and Style. This   car is an artistic innovation intertwined with  the finest of luxuries, that indulge the riders   in perfect harmony. The Lagonda Vision is  also expected to be a zero-emission car   which means it’s going to be one of the  most eco-friendly vehicles on the road.   What’s even amazing about this car is that some of  its features, such as its design and zero-emission   concepts, are expected to be in production on some  of the upcoming Aston Martin models. The vehicle   also has an extremely aerodynamic design with  its curved edges and comes with an electric   powered engine. The car is extremely spacious  and can comfortably place even tall passengers.   The most stand out features of this  futuristic car would be its wing doors,   long glass panels that provide light and wide  view, unique wheel rims, and the futuristic   design of the front grill. Let us know in the  comments what you like the most about this car.    Number Five: Terrafugia TF-X  The Terrafugia TF-X is not the typical car  you might see on the road. Yes, we mean that   literally because you might not see this car  on the road. The Terrafugia TF-X is one of the   most ambitious concept cars designed by Terrafugia  that breaks all the traditional barriers of a car.   To begin with, this car can fly and it’s  made possible by two powerful propellers.   This futuristic car can fly with a maximum speed  of 200 mph. It is also a hybrid which means   not only is it environmentally friendly but also  provides cheaper fuel economy. But that’s not all,   this car has one of the most unique shapes in  the entire car industry. It has a triangular   base which is supposed to be helpful when  soaring through the sky. But that doesn’t   mean you can’t drive this like a traditional  car. The Terrafugia TF-X has retractable wings   that allow it to drive like a regular car. This  makes it easier to move through the crowded   streets and easier to par in your garage. Although  the exact power of this vehicle is not specified,   we can be sure that anything that can move with a  200mph speed has more than enough power than most   modern cars. Do you agree?   Number Four  Rolls RoyceVision Next 100 Rolls Royce is synonymous with luxury,   so it is only natural that the Rolls Royce Concept  car “Vision Next 100” would make this list.   The vehicle is the pinnacle of fine  craftsmanship that is modeled with one idea:   to make the passenger feel like they  are floating through the air in luxury.   The concept is large and is based  on an advanced lightweight platform.   It also features a high-performance electric drive  that has 2 motors that have a 250kw output each.   The design also manages to bring subtle elegance  with the car’s body almost completely covering the   wheels and makes it appear as if the car is softly  sliding through the road like a magic carpet.   The interior is crafted with fine silky  upholstery, high-quality wood and expensive metal.   The interior is filled with technology but  can also give you a minimalist appearance.   However, there are some critics who are not yet  sold on this design of a Rolls Royce. Tell us   what you think of this style in the comments down  below. Do you think this is a controversial design   for a brand like Rolls Royce?   Number Three:  Mercedes EQ Silver Arrow   The Vision EQ Silver ArroThe Mercedes EQ Silver   Arrow is one of the most stand out concept cars on  this list for its design and power. This car has   one of the most elegant designs that Mercedes  have wired on for almost a decade. But The EQ   Silver Arrow is not just any concept car because  this car is fully functional. The Silver arrow is   not in production but it showcases what Mercedes  can do and shows the extent of their imagination.   This car drives from the power from electricity  like many concept cars, but unlike some other   futuristic concept cars, this car can produce a  whopping 750 hp and will go from 0 to 60 in less   than two seconds. The concept car was built by  Mercedes to celebrate the iconic 1937 Silver Arrow   sports car. It is built with carbon fiber-like  in many high-end hypercars. When fully charged,   the cars' electric motor would have a range of  248 miles. Some of the most noticeable features   of this car, in terms of aesthetics, would be its  extremely low height and its signature wheels.    Number Two The Audi AI-Trail Quattro    A large number of concept cars that are released  every year are mostly for the road or the track.   But for the growing demand for offroaders, the  Audi AI-Trail Quattro is just the thing. The   AI-Trail Quattro, according to Audi, is the  future of offroaders. The vehicle is not of   the conventional design that you are familiar with  when it comes to offroaders. However, according to   Audi, the AI-Trail Quattro’s design is the most  ergonomic design for not only passenger comfort   but also to have flawless offroad transportation.  It has high wheels and scientific weight   distribution so that it keeps a steady drive in  any terrain. Like many future cars, the AI-Trail   Quattro is electrically powered. But don’t you  worry because its battery has enough capacity   to get you off and back on into civilization and  you wouldn’t have to be concerned about getting   stuck in a remote area without power. That’s not  all, the vehicle can be connected to the internet   which will provide you with a smart driving  experience. You also get to see a lot more with   the AI-Trail Quattro because of its semi panoramic  view, made possible with wide and tough glass,   that gives you more vision than any traditional  offroaders. One of its biggest highlights would   be its private drones that will illuminate your  way as you drive at night! Do you know anyone   who would like to offroad in this car? Then don’t  forget to share this video with them right now! Number One The Toyota LQ  Some of the cars in this list have their focus on  design and power, but the Toyota LQ is all about   forming a compatible technological relationship  with its passengers. This unique hatchback is   designed to run on artificial intelligence.  This means that this car can literally take   you to places with the least amount of physical  driving. It is quite controversial when it comes   to looks. This hatchback has a long glass panel on  the side of the car which adds to its style factor   and giving you a naturally lit interior. Its  rear wheel is fully covered and has a triangular   pattern throughout the exterior and interior that  adds to its style. Personally, it is one of our   favorite cars as it looks compact, efficient, and  futuristic. The Toyota LQ is fully electric and   equipped with an automated driving system where no  human intervention is needed to drive the vehicle.   Its main feature however is the on-board  AI-powered, interactive agent, called Yui,   which provides a personalized mobility  experience by learning and responding to   the driver's emotional and physical state. This  AI can control everything from the air-conditioned   seating system that self-adjusts with the  driver's levels of alertness and relaxation,   to automated valet parking feature!   Which car is your favorite? Let us know in   the comments. Our favorite is the Toyota LQ simply  because of its practicality and futuristic design.   If you loved our video, don’t forget to like,  share and subscribe to our channel to get the   most interesting contents from around the world!  I’ve been Micky V and we will see you next time! 