 Driverless cars and drones are some of the standout technologies expected to change our future. The 5G network is expected to accelerate advancement in those fields, and Koreans are helping lead the way. Our Oh Sooyoung brings us the third and final installment of our 5G series. Sometimes a split second makes all the difference between life and death. 400 times faster than a blink of an eye,... the 5G wireless network is expected to propelthe advancement of driverless vehicles and drones,... which will inevitably affect public roads and safety. And researchers in Korea are producing some of the world's leading core technologies. "Localisation technology helps unmanned and driverless vehicles communicate and determine how far apart they are. It can also be used to keep them within the lane. 5G makes this much faster and more efficient. Our technology pinpoints the location,... and reduces the margin of error by tens of centimeters to enable reliable autonomous driving." AI mobility solutions developed by local firms can improve safety by scanning whether the driver is tired or distracted, as well as detecting road conditions and traffic lights, and steering the car when needed. Drones, meanwhile are already being deployed to industrial and emergency situations,... combined with real-time video streaming and AI to track and analyse their surroundings. Features like facial recognition could later help identify and rescue victims, as well as send their status and medical information to health authorities. "Our solution is being used by the police and other various authorities. With 5G, SK's video streaming and drone control,... will enable faster and more efficient responses due to low latency. Recently, Gangwon fire services told us that our solution was very useful when checking the scenes of the forest fire in Sokcho in real time." SK plans to expand its high performance live video streaming and monitoring for industrial drones used in agriculture, logistics and delivery services,... partnering with drone-maker DJI. Before 5G-based solutions become widely deployed, experts say it's crucial to iron out various safety and security issues. "We think around a million devices will be connected in the space of a kilometer, exchanging enormous amounts of data, including private information. Even the slightest breach or lapse could lead to colossal accidents, for driverless cars, especially." The South Korean government is aiming to resolve these concerns in order to nurture key sectors related to 5G, and create a 158 billion dollar market by 2026. Oh Soo-young, Arirang News. 