BUSINESSANSYS, a Delaware corporation formed in 1994, develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including aerospace, automotive, materials and chemical processing, turbomachinery, consumer products, electronics, biomedical, energy, defense and others. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2,700 people as of December 31, 2014. The Company focuses on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company distributes its ANSYS suite of simulation technologies through a global network of independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is the Company's intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model.The Company's product portfolio consists of the following:Simulation Platform: ANSYS® Workbench™ ANSYS Workbench is the framework upon which the Company's suite of advanced engineering simulation technologies is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design ("CAD") connectivity, powerful highly-automated meshing, a project-level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the ANSYS® Workbench™ platform delivers unprecedented productivity, enabling Simulation-Driven Product Development™.Simulation Process and Data ManagementANSYS Engineering Knowledge Manager™ ("ANSYS EKM") is a comprehensive solution for simulation-based process and data management challenges. ANSYS EKM provides solutions and benefits to all levels of a company, enabling an organization to address the critical issues associated with simulation data including backup and archival, traceability and audit trail, process automation, collaboration and capture of engineering expertise, and intellectual property protection.High-Performance ComputingThe Company's high-performance computing ("HPC") product suite enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The HPC product suite delivers cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of the Company's simulation software by supporting structures, fluids, thermal and electronics simulations. This product suite decreases turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.Geometry InterfacesThe Company offers comprehensive geometry handling solutions for engineering simulation in an integrated environment with direct interfaces to all major CAD systems, support of additional readers and translators, and an integrated geometry modeler exclusively focused on analysis.3Table of ContentsMeshingCreating a mesh that transforms a physical model into a mathematical model is a critical and foundational step in almost every engineering simulation study. Accurate meshing is especially challenging today with increasing product design complexity and heightened expectations of product performance. The Company's meshing technology provides a means to balance these requirements, obtaining the right mesh for each simulation in the most automated way possible. The technology is built on the strengths of world-class leading algorithms that are integrated in a single environment to produce the most robust and reliable meshing available.StructuresThe Company's structural analysis product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help to deliver better and more innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts, materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems.Explicit DynamicsThe Company's explicit dynamics product suite simulates events involving short-duration, large-strain, large-deformation, fracture, complete material failure or structural problems with complex interactions. This suite is ideal for simulating physical events that occur in a short period of time and may result in material damage or failure. Such events are often difficult or expensive to study experimentally.CompositesComposites blend two or more materials that possess very different properties. The Company's composite analysis and optimization technology efficiently defines materials, plies and stacking sequences, and also offers a wide choice of state-of-the-art failure criteria. The Company's composite software provides all necessary functionalities for finite element analysis of layered composites structures.FluidsThe Company's fluids product suite enables modeling of fluid flow and other related physical phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The suite contains general-purpose computational fluid dynamics software and specialized products to address specific industry applications.ElectronicsThe Company's electronics product suite provides field simulation software for designing high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software streamlines the design process and predicts performance of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits ("ICs") and printed circuit boards ("PCBs"), as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive components and power electronics equipment, all prior to building a prototype.Low-Power ElectronicsThe Company's power analysis and optimization software suite manages the power budget, power delivery integrity and power-induced noise in an electronic design, from initial prototyping to system sign-off. These solutions deliver accuracy with correlation to silicon measurement; the capacity to handle an entire electronic system, including IC, package and PCB; efficiency for ease-of-debug and fast turnaround time; and comprehensiveness to facilitate cross-domain communications and electronic ecosystem enablement.SystemsThe Company delivers a unique and comprehensive system simulation capability that is ideal for the design of today's increasingly automated products. This collaborative environment leverages the Company's multiphysics, multibody dynamics, circuit and embedded software simulation capabilities, enabling users to simulate the complex interactions between components, circuits and control software within a single environment. These technologies provide a complete view into predicted product performance, which creates greater design confidence for engineers.4Table of ContentsMultiphysicsThe Company's multiphysics product suite allows engineers and designers to create virtual prototypes of their designs operating under real-world multiphysics conditions. As the range of need for simulation expands, companies must be able to accurately predict how complex products will behave in real-world environments, where multiple types of physics interact in a coupled way. ANSYS multiphysics software enables engineers and scientists to simulate the interactions between structures, heat transfer, fluids and electronics all within a single, unified engineering simulation environment.Embedded SoftwareThe Company's SCADE® product suite is a comprehensive solution for embedded software simulation, code production and automated certification. It has been developed specifically for use in critical systems with high dependability requirements, including aerospace, rail transportation, nuclear, industrial applications and, more recently, automotive. SCADE® software supports the entire development workflow, from requirements analysis and design, through verification, implementation and deployment. SCADE® solutions easily integrate with each other and the rest of the ANSYS product suite, allowing for development optimization and increased communication among team members.3-D Direct ModelingThe Company's 3-D direct modeling technology provides a CAD-neutral environment to modify and prepare geometry for simulation. This approach allows engineers to dramatically reduce the pre-processing step in simulation, and ultimately delivers product design insights much faster in the earliest stages of development.AcademicThe Company's academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers: associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various noncommercial products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. It includes flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. The Company also provides a low-cost product for simplified problems suitable for student use away from the classroom.PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company makes significant investments in research and development and emphasizes frequent, integrated product releases. The Company's product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management ("PLM") systems. The Company's product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD, electronic CAD ("ECAD"), PLM products and the development of new products. The Company's products run on the most widely used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.During the year ended December 31, 2014 and in the period from January 1, 2015 until the filing date, the Company completed the following major product development activities and releases:•In January 2015, the Company announced the release of ANSYS® 16.0, with major advancements across the Company's entire product portfolio. The pervasive connectivity of electronic devices requires a higher standard for hardware and software reliability. ANSYS 16.0 delivers capabilities to verify electronics reliability and performance throughout the design process. Another important new feature in ANSYS 16.0 is the ability to create 3-D components and integrate them into larger electronic assemblies. This modeling approach can facilitate the creation of wireless communication systems, which is especially useful as these systems become more complex. Simulation-ready 3-D components are created and stored in library files that can be added to larger system designs without the need to apply excitations, boundary conditions and material properties. ANSYS 16.0 accelerates the process for engineers to model thin materials, such as sheet metal and plate steel, and define how parts are connected in a complete assembly. It provides new functionality for composite designs and comprehensive tools for understanding the solution results. ANSYS 16.0 provides advanced solutions for elastomers, such as rubber, which are often used in seals and vibration dampers, and features adaptive re-meshing, which refines the mesh in highly distorted areas without the need for the user to stop the simulation manually.5Table of ContentsIn addition, ANSYS 16.0 significantly reduces fluid dynamics preprocessing time for complex models. Engineers designing turbomachinery equipment will benefit from significant simulation speed-up as a result of HPC scalability extending to thousands of central processing unit cores. Furthermore, continued advances in modeling transient blade row interaction will extend and improve engineers’ ability to simulate the complex, unsteady flow phenomena found in such rotating machinery as aircraft engines and power generation turbines.ANSYS 16.0 features extended modeling capabilities, enabling hardware and software engineers to define the intricacies of a system's and its subsystems' operations. This is crucial because, as systems become more complex, engineers need greater definition of their operations. Systems and software engineers can better collaborate on joint projects, reducing development time and effort. ANSYS 16.0 addresses this need with the addition of behavioral diagram modeling.DO-178C, Software Considerations in Airborne Systems and Equipment Certification, is the new certification that authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration, the European Aviation Safety Agency and Transport Canada will use to approve all commercial software-based aerospace systems. Within the aeronautics domain, ANSYS 16.0 provides a model-based approach that satisfies the requirements of DO-330, the tools qualification document within DO-178C, for the highest levels of safety requirements. ANSYS 16.0 is the first tool to meet that new certification requirement. ANSYS's SCADE® products provide a model-based approach that satisfies the requirements of DO-330.As part of the launch, ANSYS is introducing ANSYS AIMTM, an innovative, immersive simulation environment that lowers the barrier to entry for multiphysics simulations. ANSYS AIM simulation uses proven ANSYS technology packaged in a new intuitive environment, accessible to the entire engineering organization. Its guided simulation process paradigm delivers high levels of automation and provides opportunities for customization to automate engineering best practices.•In May 2014, the Company released the 2014 version of its RedHawkTM software. RedHawk 2014 delivers greater performance, capacity and coverage, as well as sign-off accuracy required to meet the increasing complexity of FinFET-based designs. The new software release incorporates technologies that enable the simulation of more than 100 million instances or over two billion node designs, while maintaining flat simulation accuracy for sign-off.In addition, it introduces the industry’s first integrated chip-package co-simulation and co-analysis solution, increasing the coverage and accuracy of power noise analysis, as well as streamlining the process. RedHawk 2014 is foundry certified for IR-drop and electromigration analysis for the latest process technology.The Company's total research and development expenses were $165.4 million, $151.4 million and $132.6 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, or 17.7%, 17.6% and 16.6% of total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, the Company's product development staff consisted of approximately 1,000 employees, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines. The Company has traditionally invested significant resources in research and development activities and intends to continue to make investments in these areas, particularly as it relates to expanding the capabilities of its flagship products and other products within its broad portfolio of simulation software, the evolution of its ANSYS® Workbench™ platform, integrated multiphysics, expanding its HPC capabilities, an immersive user interface, robust design and ongoing integration of acquired technology.PRODUCT QUALITY  The Company's employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. The Company establishes quality plans for its products and services, and subjects product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification in accordance with processes established under the Company's quality system.6Table of ContentsSALES AND MARKETING The Company distributes and supports its products through a global network of independent channel partners, as well as through its own direct sales offices. This channel partner network provides the Company with a cost-effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables the Company to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to the Company's operations to offset geography-specific economic trends and provides the Company with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets. The Company derived 24.9%, 25.3% and 26.0% of its total revenue through the indirect sales channel for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.The channel partners sell ANSYS products to new customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company's channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent the Company's expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support.The Company also has a direct sales management organization in place to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide major account strategy. The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices.During 2014, the Company continued to invest in its existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, the Company's direct sales offices comprise 1,300 employees who are responsible for the sales, technical support, consulting services, marketing initiatives and administrative activities designed to support the Company's overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.The Company's products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world's largest industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of the Company's revenue in 2014, 2013 or 2012.Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPSThe Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD, ECAD and PLM providers. The Company believes that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the Company's products, provide access to new customers, expand the Company's sales channels, develop specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation ("EDA"), product data management and PLM systems.The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, Dassault Systèmes, PTC and Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software, to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and ANSYS products.Similarly, the Company maintains marketing and software development relationships with leading EDA software companies, including Cadence, Synopsys, Mentor Graphics, Zuken and Agilent. These relationships support transfer of data between electronics design and layout packages and the ANSYS electronics simulation portfolio.The Company has strengthened relationships with leading suppliers of computer hardware, including Intel, AMD, Microsoft, NVIDIA, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Dell, Cray, Fujitsu and other leading regional resellers and system integrators. These relationships provide the Company with joint marketing opportunities, such as advertising, public relations, editorial coverage and customer events. In addition, these alliances provide the Company with early access and technical collaboration on new and emerging computing technologies, ensuring that the Company's software products are certified to run effectively on the most current hardware platforms. In 2014, an important engagement with Intel occurred in the area of accelerator technology, and parallel scaling to 36,000 cores was demonstrated with Cray and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications.The Company entered new partnerships with Amazon Web Services, Gompute, Nimbix, R Systems, Penguin Computing, CPU 24/7 and Atos, pursuing best practices for executing engineering simulation in the Cloud. Supporting this effort, new certifications were introduced for the remote visualization solutions from Microsoft, OpenText, NICE SRL ("NICE") and RealVNC.7Table of ContentsThe Company's Enhanced Solution Partner Program actively encourages specialized developers of software solutions to use the Company's technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of the Company's software. With over 100 active enhanced solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including optimization, electronics, mechanical simulation, fluid simulation and CAD, this partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of the Company's technology offerings. Important software engagements in 2014 included extending a topology optimization-focused strategic partnership with Vanderplaats R&D, and expanding the deployment of the Company’s development toolkits in response to growing demand from partners, including CoreTech System, Dassault Systèmes, FunctionBay, VirtualMotion and others.The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Technology Corporation ("LSTC") whereby LSTC has provided LS-DYNA software for explicit dynamics solutions used in applications such as crash test simulations in automotive and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of the LS-DYNA software with the Company's pre- and post-processing capabilities and provides updates and problem resolution in return for royalties from sales of the ANSYS/LS-DYNA combined product.The Company has a software license agreement with HBM that provides the advanced fatigue capabilities of nCode DesignLife™, a leading durability software from HBM. ANSYS® nCode DesignLife™ technology leverages the open architecture of the ANSYS platform and enables mechanical engineers to more easily address complex product life and durability issues before a prototype is built.The Company has a software license agreement with NICE that targets the emerging paradigm of data-center-based deployment of simulation. EngineFrame from NICE is bundled with ANSYS EKM and facilitates running interactive ANSYS applications on remote data centers.COMPETITIONThe Company believes that the principal factors affecting sales of its software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.The Company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company's current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well-established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company's current and possible future competitors also include firms that have or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSESThe Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software products under software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses, which are typically nontransferable, for the use of the Company's products. License agreements for the Company's products are directly between the Company and end-users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product. Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company's software products and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction. Customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and upgrades, or may lease the product on a fixed-term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.The Company licenses its software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard-copy license terms and forms. For certain software products, the Company primarily relies on "click-wrapped" licenses. The enforceability of these types of agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has obtained federal trademark registration protection for ANSYS and other marks in the U.S. and foreign countries. Additionally, the Company was awarded numerous patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and has a number of patent applications pending. To the extent the Company does not choose to seek patent protection for its intellectual property, the Company primarily relies on the protection of its source code as a trade secret.8Table of ContentsEmployees of the Company have signed agreements under which they have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information and, where legally permitted, that restrict engagement in or connection with any business that is competitive with the Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and, in some cases, for specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology created by them during their term of employment are the property of the Company. In addition, the Company requires all channel partners to enter into agreements not to disclose the Company's trade secrets and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of the Company's technology and proprietary information (including source code) will be prevented. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for the Company's products in certain jurisdictions, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel partners to engage in activities competitive with the Company will be enforceable. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary in the future to enforce the Company's rights to its trade secrets and proprietary information or to enforce its patent rights and copyrights, and it is possible that, in the future, the Company's competitors may be able to obtain the Company's trade secrets or to independently develop similar, unpatented technology.The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are also important to establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to the various legal protections of its technology that may be available. The Company does not believe that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by the Company or its licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products and suppliers continues to expand and the functionality of products continues to increase. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product release delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.SEASONAL VARIATIONSThe Company's business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from slowdowns of customer activities during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company's global customers. The Company's revenue is typically highest in the fourth quarter.DEFERRED REVENUE AND BACKLOGDeferred revenue consists of billings made or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from software license and maintenance agreements. The deferred revenue on the Company's consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total value of annual or multi-year, noncancellable software license and maintenance agreements. The Company's backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle and customer orders received but not processed. The Company's deferred revenue and backlog as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 consisted of the following: Balance at December 31, 2014(in thousands)Total Current Long-TermDeferred revenue$345,305 $332,664 $12,641Backlog122,985 41,390 81,595Total$468,290 $374,054 $94,236 Balance at December 31, 2013(in thousands)Total Current Long-TermDeferred revenue$317,730 $309,775 $7,955Backlog91,786 33,446 58,340Total$409,516 $343,221 $66,295Revenue associated with deferred revenue and backlog that will be recognized in the subsequent twelve months is classified as current in the table above.9Table of ContentsEMPLOYEES  As of December 31, 2014, the Company and its subsidiaries had 2,700 employees. At that date, there were also contract personnel and co-op students providing ongoing development services and technical support. Certain employees of the Company are subject to collective bargaining agreements and have local work councils.ACQUISITIONSThe Company makes targeted acquisitions in order to support its long-term strategic direction, accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to its existing products, supply new products and services, expand its customer base and enhance its distribution channels. The following table presents the Company's acquisitions from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2014.Date of closing Company DetailsApril 30, 2014 SpaceClaim Corporation SpaceClaim Corporation ("SpaceClaim"), a leading provider of 3-D modeling technology, was acquired for $85.0 million. SpaceClaim's software provides customers with a powerful and intuitive 3-D direct modeling solution to author new concepts and then leverage the power of simulation to rapidly iterate on these designs to drive innovation.January 3, 2014 Reaction Design Reaction Design, a leading developer of chemistry simulation software, was acquired for $19.1 million in cash. Reaction Design's solutions enable transportation manufacturers and energy companies to rapidly achie